
                               1 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    January 3, 2003 Friday Five Star Edition

IOWA CRASH KILLS 9 PEOPLE IN PICKUP;
 TRUCK HIT TRACTOR-TRAILER; AUTHORITIES SUSPECT IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: MENLO, IOWA


A pickup crammed with nine people slammed into a tractor-trailer on Interstate
80 early Thursday, killing everyone in the smaller truck.

The pickup crossed the median and hit the tractor-trailer around 2:30 a.m.,
about 30 miles west of Des Moines, the Iowa State Patrol said.

"It was a mess," said Fire Chief Ben Gilman, who was first on the scene.
"Everyone in the truck was dead. They probably died on impact."

Lt. Rob Hansen, spokesman for the state patrol, said, "We do have some idea to
believe that these folks are not here legally, so it may take some time to
identify them because of that." The truck had Colorado license plates, and all
nine victims were Hispanic.

Estela Biesemeyer, an agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Des Moines, said the number of people in the pickup, their ethnicity and the
fact that they were headed east led investigators to suspect a smuggling
operation.

"Smuggling through Iowa has always been here," she said. "Interstate 80 is a
major route these people take from the border."

Biesemeyer said pickups and vans are commonly used by smugglers, and the agency
has intercepted U-Haul trucks carrying as many as 50 people. She said the INS
would probably contact the foreign consulates of Mexico or El Salvador to try to
identify the victims.

The cause of the crash was under investigation. Sgt. Mike Van Berkum of the
state patrol said the roads were not slippery and that there was no indication
alcohol was involved.

The driver of the tractor-trailer, William Dean Hansen, 55, was taken to a
hospital. His condition was not disclosed.

The pickup was so badly damaged, troopers could not tell where the victims had
been seated, Rob Hansen said.

It was not immediately clear whether the bed of the truck was enclosed.

"Not many vehicles have nine seat belts in them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by ROBERT NANDELL / DES MOINES REGISTER - Iowa State
Patrol officers inspect the scene of a crash Thursday on Interstate 80 near
Menlo, Iowa. The cause of the crash was under investigation.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               2 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 28, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 645 words


HOUSTON

7th person is arrested in smuggling of migrants

A seventh person has been arrested for her alleged role in a smuggling operation
that led to the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who had been packed into a
sweltering tractor-trailer.

Authorities said Norma Sanchez-Gonzalez arranged for two people to be smuggled
into the country, one for $1,900, the other for $1,800. One of those immigrants
died in the trailer in south Texas this month.

Sanchez-Gonzalez, 42, a Mexican living in Houston, was arrested Friday and
appeared in federal court Tuesday on immigrant smuggling charges. Tyrone
Williams, the truck's driver, was arrested hours after 17 people were found dead
May 14 in and around the trailer at a truck stop in Victoria. Two more died
later.

MODESTO, Calif.

Funeral service is held for Chandra Levy

Chandra Levy, the former intern whose disappearance ended the congressional
career of Gary Condit, was buried Tuesday, more than a year after her remains
were discovered in a park in Washington.

Levy was buried during a service attended by about 50 people, said Kim Petersen,
a family friend. The burial was delayed because the medical examiner just
released Levy's remains on Friday, said Judy Smith, a family spokeswoman.

Levy, who had worked for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, was 24 when she disappeared
in Washington on May 1, 2001. Her case drew national attention because of her
relationship with Condit. The congressman reportedly told police that he and
Levy were having an affair. Levy's remains were discove red on May 22, 2002.

Police do not consider Condit a suspect in Levy's death. No one has been charged
in the case.

WASHINGTON

Bush signs $15 billion global AIDS relief bill

President George W. Bush said the $15 billion global AIDS bill he signed on
Tuesday represents the moral duty of the United States to act against a disease
that has killed more than 20 million people worldwide.

"We believe in the value and dignity of every human life," Bush said, likening
the AIDS initiative to U.S. relief and rebuilding efforts in Europe after World
War II.

If fully implemented, the legislation is supposed to prevent 7 million new
infections, care for 10 million HIV-infected people and AIDS orphans and provide
anti-retroviral therapy for 2 million.

NEW YORK

Afghan cabdriver is held without bail

A cabdriver from Afghanistan who tried to buy explosives and sought out
information on bridges and cruise ships was held without bail Tuesday after a
prosecutor said he may be a terrorist.

Sayed Abdul Malike, 43, did not immediately challenge Assistant U.S. Attorney
Catherine Friesen's assertions. His attorney, Heidi Cesare, declined to comment.
Malike was ordered held without bail after Friesen suggested he had "sinister"
intentions.

Friesen said Malike was a danger to the community and may not have acted alone.
She cited comments he made suggesting he was expecting financing for his
explosives from Pakistan. Malike is a legal U.S. resident from Afghanistan.

LOS ANGELES

Former joined twins are doing better, doctors say

Two formerly joined twins flown back to the United States from Guatemala last
week after experiencing problems are getting better. Doctors said Tuesday that
one of the 22-month-old girls could be released from the hospital immediately.

Maria Teresa Quiej Alvarez and Maria de Jesus, who had been joined at the head,
were separated in August by surgeons at the University of California at Los
Angeles.

Maria Teresa developed E. coli meningitis in April and is in stable condition in
an intensive care unit at UCLA's Mattel Children's Hospital, Dr. Jorge Lazareff
said. On Thursday, doctors will replace a valve that removes excess fluid from
the girl's brain. The other twin, Maria de Jesus, suffered a convulsion on May
21 and was rushed to a hospital in Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               3 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 28, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 646 words


HOUSTON

7th person is arrested in smuggling of migrants

A seventh person has been arrested for her alleged role in a smuggling operation
that led to the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who had been packed into a
sweltering tractor-trailer.

Authorities said Norma Sanchez-Gonzalez arranged for two people to be smuggled
into the country, one for $1,900, the other for $1,800. One of those immigrants
died in the trailer in south Texas this month.

Sanchez-Gonzalez, 42, a Mexican living in Houston, was arrested Friday and
appeared in federal court Tuesday on immigrant smuggling charges. Tyrone
Williams, the truck's driver, was arrested hours after 17 people were found dead
May 14 in and around the trailer at a truck stop in Victoria. Two more died
later.

LOS ANGELES

Gunfire damages offices of rap recording label

Several bullets damaged the front door, windows and walls of rap mogul Marion
"Suge" Knight's record label offices early Tuesday in what some law enforcement
officials believe was an attack by members of a street gang who have a
disagreement with him and his associates.

A security guard on duty was not hurt in the attack, which occurred about 2:30
a.m. local time, Los Angeles Police Officer Adriana Sanchez said.

The shots were fired from vehicles that drove by Tha Row records, formerly known
as Death Row Records.

Knight completed 61 days in jail earlier this year after a California prison
board found that he had violated his parole by associating with a known member
of the Mob Pirus Blood gang.

WASHINGTON

Bush signs $15 billion global AIDS relief bill

President George W. Bush said the $15 billion global AIDS bill he signed on
Tuesday represents the moral duty of the United States to act against a disease
that has killed more than 20 million people worldwide.

"We believe in the value and dignity of every human life," Bush said, likening
the AIDS initiative to U.S. relief and rebuilding efforts in Europe after World
War II.

If fully implemented, the legislation is supposed to prevent 7 million new
infections, care for 10 million HIV-infected people and AIDS orphans and provide
anti-retroviral therapy for 2 million.

NEW YORK

Afghan cabdriver is held without bail

A cabdriver from Afghanistan who tried to buy explosives and sought out
information on bridges and cruise ships was held without bail Tuesday after a
prosecutor said he may be a terrorist.

Sayed Abdul Malike, 43, did not immediately challenge Assistant U.S. Attorney
Catherine Friesen's assertions. His attorney, Heidi Cesare, declined to comment.
Malike was ordered held without bail after Friesen suggested he had "sinister"
intentions.

Friesen said Malike was a danger to the community and may not have acted alone.
She cited comments he made suggesting he was expecting financing for his
explosives from Pakistan. Malike is a legal U.S. resident from Afghanistan.

LOS ANGELES

Former joined twins are doing better, doctors say

Two formerly joined twins flown back to the United States from Guatemala last
week after experiencing problems are getting better. Doctors said Tuesday that
one of the 22-month-old girls could be released from the hospital immediately.

Maria Teresa Quiej Alvarez and Maria de Jesus, who had been joined at the head,
were separated in August by surgeons at the University of California at Los
Angeles.

Maria Teresa developed E. coli meningitis in April and is in stable condition in
an intensive care unit at UCLA's Mattel Children's Hospital, Dr. Jorge Lazareff
said. On Thursday, doctors will replace a valve that removes excess fluid from
the girl's brain. The other twin, Maria de Jesus, suffered a convulsion on May
21 and was rushed to a hospital in Guatemala. UCLA doctors said the convulsion
was believed to have been caused by a fever and is considered a routine
occurrence in children.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               4 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             November 11, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FOR ILLEGALS, ALL ROADS LEAD TO ST. LOUIS/ CRASH ON I-44 IS CALLED LATEST
INSTANCE OF SMUGGLERS HEADING NORTH

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 758 words


A traffic accident Sunday on Interstate 44 that led to the arrest of 17 illegal
immigrants is evidence of the growing role St. Louis plays as a key intersection
on the human smuggling route.

"With all these highways funneling through here, it's a feeder system to the
rest of the country," said Lt. Jim Hudson of the St. Charles County Sheriff's
Department.

Crippled economies across South and Central America are pushing record numbers
of immigrants to chance the illegal and dangerous border crossing.

Roughly 7 million illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, were living in the United
States as of January 2000, the government reported in February. The figure
represents an increase of 1 million in less than four years.

Many settle in the border states of California, Texas and Arizona. Others pack
into trunks, jam into pickup beds or stow away among cargo and journey north
along thousands of miles of interstate toward Illinois, Georgia and North
Carolina, other states that posted some of the largest numerical increases of
illegal immigrants in the 1990s. There they can blend into established Hispanic
communities and seek work. Some toil in seasonal agricultural industries, such
as cherry or cranberry picking. Others work in poultry plants. Some find jobs in
factories or the service industry, such as hotels and restaurants.

Interstates like 44, 55, 64 and 70 that flow through St. Louis serve as a
perfect pipeline for illegals seeking to avoid small towns or back roads where
they might draw attention, authorities say. The vast interstate system offers
anonymity and a chance to get lost among the steady flow of traffic.

A large majority go undetected, but some are caught by police and state troopers
working drug interdiction duty. Some are given away by a sagging trunk,
out-of-place license plates or a cargo area packed with people.

In April 2002, St. Charles police stopped a pickup on I-70 and found eight
illegal immigrants, who said they were bound for Chicago from the Phoenix area.

In March, St. Charles County sheriff's deputies pulled over a rented minivan on
I-70 and found 10 illegal immigrants and an envelope containing 24 blank Social
Security cards and 25 blank alien resident cards.

Others are discovered only after a tragedy.

"We've seen some terrible, terrible accidents in the last year," said Marilu
Cabrera, spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Chicago.

In May 2001, one person was killed and several injured after a pickup packed
with 15 illegal immigrants collided with a tractor-trailer on I-44 near Rolla,
Mo.

In Sunday's accident, a truck carrying the immigrants collided with a car near
St. Clair, west of Highway 30, about 8:35 a.m.

A few of the truck's occupants stayed to help two others who had suffered
serious injuries, according to the Missouri Highway Patrol. The others scattered
into the surrounding woods. Police found all within six hours, most shivering
while they huddled in a grove of trees near the intersection of Springfield and
Pickles Ford roads.

Two remain hospitalized. Their conditions were not available. Federal
immigration officials took the other 15 into custody. Five, including two
minors, were offered and accepted voluntary removal to Mexico. The others face
deportation charges.

Franklin County Prosecuting Attorney Robert Parks said Monday he expected to
seek state charges against the driver, a Mexican national, for leaving the scene
of an accident and forgery for signing a fingerprint card with a false name
before later providing his real name.

Parks said he expected to submit evidence to a grand jury within the next
several weeks.

One passenger told authorities that some occupants had paid $1,500 to be
smuggled into the United States from Mexico.

Despite the growing problem, the heads of several area law agencies said they
did not make immigration enforcement a priority. State charges are rarely
warranted in such cases and more often than not, federal immigration officials
decline to pursue deportation cases unless the case involves a felony or the
person has previously been deported.

"If they're not even going to pick them up, there's not a lot of sense us
spending time on it," said Franklin County Sheriff Gary Toelke.

Cabrera acknowledged the problem.

"We don't have the number of agents we would need to make arrests in every
case," she said. "Our priorities are terrorism, criminal aliens and those with
previous deports. We try to accommodate the local police, but we do have our
limitations."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor/ E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               5 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 15, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLERS ARE GOING UPSCALE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Smuggling "drophouses" like one found holding 159 immigrants last week are now
more common in upscale and newer neighborhoods in Phoenix, which has become a
hub for illegal immigration, an immigration official said Friday.

Smugglers once kept to low-income areas to find drophouses used to hold
immigrants once they're brought across the border, said Russell L. Ahr, a
spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"Perhaps the smugglers believe that because we have customarily seen them
operate only in low-income neighborhoods, they believe they'll be subject to
less scrutiny in upscale neighborhoods," Ahr said.

He said a similarly large group of immigrants was found at a Phoenix area
drophouse in 1999, but groups of 20 to 70 people are more common.

Tightened patrols in California and Texas in recent years have pushed more
illegal immigrants toward Arizona, making it the busiest illegal entry point
along the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, immigration officials said.

The drophouse discovered Wednesday was somewhat shielded from view by a golf
course and a grove of orange trees. The layout "gave it a secluded quality so
that after dark they could pull vehicles in through a gated entrance," Ahr said.

Phoenix police began watching the house after a neighbor complained about the
traffic at the house. Immigration authorities were called when police realized
the activity at the house involved smuggling, Ahr said.

About 60 immigrants were locked in bedrooms with deadbolts, leading
investigators to speculate they may have been hostages. Ahr said it's not clear
whether smugglers were trying to extort money from them or whether the locked-in
immigrants hadn't paid the smugglers in full yet.

Seven suspected smugglers were arrested during the raid, and four of them were
charged in federal court Friday with harboring illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               6 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 3, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Egyptian accused of human smuggling is arrested

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An Egyptian man U.S. authorities described as one of their most wanted smugglers
of humans was arrested Friday on charges of operating a ring that brought people
from Middle Eastern countries to the United States.

A grand jury indictment charges Ashraf Ahmed Abdallah, 34, with one count of
conspiracy to commit alien smuggling and four counts of assisting in bringing
aliens into the United States for financial gain.

U.S. officials described Abdallah as an important trafficking kingpin because of
his focus on Middle Easterners.

"The fact that Abdallah is no longer smuggling individuals from special interest
nations into the United States makes America a safer nation," said Michael J.
Garcia, head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The indictment says Abdallah and his associates would direct people seeking to
reach the United States to go to one of several Latin American countries, and
from there to Guatemala. They would then be transported to the United States
through Mexico in return for payments of thousands of dollars in smuggling fees,
the indictment says.

Abdallah often would keep the illegal immigrants' passports to guarantee payment
of those fees, prosecutors said.

The indictment was originally returned under court-ordered seal in December
2001, and the charges are limited to an alleged smuggling conspiracy from June
to October 2001.

Abdallah, who lived in Guatemala City and had returned to Egypt in January 2002,
was arrested Friday at Miami International Airport while traveling from Ecuador
to Egypt.

There were no allegations that any of the illegal immigrants were involved in
international terrorism. But after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S.
government has made tighter border security one of its top priorities.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION/WORLD

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               7 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 24, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

CONGRESS TAKES UP CASE OF MIGRANTS/ IMMIGRATION REFORM DRAWS BROAD SUPPORT

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When terrorists crashed into the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001, Dennis Molitor of
Home Nurseries in Edwardsville cut short his trip to Washington, where he was
lobbying for a plan to legalize undocumented farm workers.

"It all fell apart," said Molitor. "Once we found out what was going on, we
figured we were dead for right now. But we didn't give up, because things didn't
change. The migrant workers are still here."

Two years later, hopes are rising again for a plan that could bring an estimated
500,000 illegal farm workers out of the shadows. Separate legislation would
legalize millions more undocumented workers.

"Now that we are on the other side of 9-11, we're going to look for ways to move
forward step by step (on immigration reform)," said Secretary of State Colin
Powell after meeting with Mexican officials this month in Washington.

Congress has been far less cautious, drumming up bipartisan support for a plan
to make it easier for now-illegal immigrants working in agriculture to become
legal residents.

The plan has drawn the support of farmers and business interests like Molitor,
who are eager to keep the workers in low-paid jobs the companies have trouble
filling. Immigration advocates support the plan, as do Democrats who see workers
-- and the unions that could represent them -- as political allies.

In the Senate, the chief sponsors are conservative Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho,
and liberal Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. Co-sponsors include Sens. Dick Durbin,
D-Ill., Peter Fitzgerald, R-Ill., and, in the House, Rep. John Shimkus,
R-Collinsville.

The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops blessed the proposal this month as its
president, Belleville Bishop Wilton Gregory, urged Congress and President George
W. Bush to support the bill.

"Look: Larry Craig and Ted Kennedy. That's enough to say that this thing should
move," Shimkus said. "That's a recipe for success, which means it's not a
partisan issue and it bridges ideological gaps and it could very well be the
start of overall immigration reform."

Advocates of stricter immigration controls still believe post-9-11 fears
eventually will block the effort, particularly among conservative House members.

"There is no way to do this securely, to make sure we're giving (permanent
residency) cards to the people we think they are," said Mark Krikorian, director
of the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies. "Down the line, one of
these people is going to blow something up."

Horseradish benefits

Those who back the plan say that the farm-worker bill could be the first step in
tackling the great unknown population of undocumented people living and working
in the United States.

The Department of Homeland Security has estimated that as of 2000, about 7
million undocumented people were living in the United States, nearly 5 million
from Mexico alone. But far fewer than 1 million are believed to be agricultural
workers.

Missouri is home to at least 22,000 undocumented migrants; Illinois had 432,000,
according to those estimates.

Intense border security in California and Texas has shifted the flow of illegal
border-crossers to Arizona, prompting lawmakers from that state to back easier
legalization for undocumented workers in most any low-skill occupation and
expand temporary-work visas for foreign workers.

But many believe that dealing with farm workers first is the key to cobbling
together enough interest groups to get it through Congress.

"This is a door-opener, given the mix of supporters - of big business, farm
workers and labor - that really could set a model that might be broadened to
include other people," said Angie O'Gorman, director of the Immigration Law
project for Legal Services of Eastern Missouri.

Business brought Shimkus on board.

"In my area, the nursery business is becoming a very big agricultural industry -
and they're using low-skilled migrant workers," he said. "And I'm in the
horseradish capital of the world here in Collinsville."

Dave Bender, the association's executive director, said, "We keep hearing that
70 percent of the immigrant work force is estimated to be here illegally. We
want to basically clean our act up as an industry. ... We take documentation
and, if it shows they're here legally, we take their word for it. But let's not
kid ourselves, we know there's a good chance that they're here illegally."

Molitor is a vice president for Home Nursery, which has a 500- acre nursery in
Albers and a wholesale distribution center in O'Fallon, Mo. He said 60 of the
nursery's 100 employees are foreign workers, all from Mexico.

"We think they are here legally," Molitor said. "However, it is possible they
would be undocumented and we don't know it. We only verify they have a Social
Security card or other ID that shows they have the right to work in the United
States. As far as we know, they're legal."

"Indentured servitude"?

The agriculture-jobs bill, now pending in congressional committees, would allow
many undocumented workers now working in agriculture to continue working under a
legal, temporary resident status.

Farmers like it, because, unlike a 1986 law that provided amnesty for more than
2 million undocumented workers, it requires workers to stay in farm jobs for at
least three years before seeking permanent resident status. Under the 1986
amnesty, undocumented workers who met the criteria could immediately begin the
process to become a permanent legal resident: the "green card" status that
allowed them to work in any job. As a result, many abandoned farms for other
types of work.

"We do not want amnesty," Bender said. "The 1986 amnesty bill was very
detrimental for our industry, because they were given citizenship and they could
go anywhere to work."

Krikorian, a critic of the proposal, called it "an indentured servitude. They're
still required to work in agriculture over a couple of years, so it's a captive
labor program. ... A Mexican peasant doesn't want to pick tomatoes any more than
you do, and the problem here is not the farm workers are somehow defective. The
problem is with the work itself. It is uncivilized work.

"In a civilized society, the market will force that to change to more
capital-intensive, productive methods. But importing new people from overseas
retards that process of civilizing the work."

Nevertheless, immigration advocate groups are supporting the bill. They cite
provisions that allow the workers to move to another agricultural job if
employers mistreat them. Current agricultural visas force the foreign workers to
stay with their employer, no matter what, or go home.

"That's very important, because the pattern has been that a company will bring
in workers and then put them in unconscionable living and working conditions,
but the worker is stuck - because if they leave their job, they become
undocumented," O'Gorman said. "This bill will make it a portable visa, and
that's a wonderful advancement for the rights of these workers."

Marti Jones, coordinator of the Immigration Project in Granite City, said the
needs of farmers will spell success for the bill in a conservative Congress:
"It's a side benefit that also happens to be good for immigrants. The primary
reason people are behind this is because this is good for farmers."

Molitor wouldn't argue with that. Before Mexican workers became a staple for
Home Nursery's employment base, he said, the company couldn't persuade its U.S.
employees to stay on. In one year, he remembered hiring 425 workers just to keep
200 jobs filled.

"We would hire people out of high school. They would come and work a day and
leave, because nobody wanted to do dirt work," Molitor said. "Since we started
hiring migrant workers, we have very little turnover. They're good folks.
They're not a bunch of terrorists and outlaws. Whether they're legal or illegal,
we'd like to see a way we could help them become at least legalized aliens."

* * * * *

Agriculture-jobs bill

Who's eligible: Undocumented foreign workers with no criminal record who have
worked in U.S. agriculture for at least 100 days in the 18 months ending on Aug.
31, 2003.

How it would begin: Workers could apply for temporary legal status within 18
months after the bill passes.

If granted temporary status: Workers could eventually get permanent-resident
status by continuing to work in agriculture for at least 360 days during at
least the first three years.

Once awarded permanent status: Workers could work in any industry.

The bill would also: Make it easier and less expensive to get temporary and
seasonal visas for agriculture workers. Last year, just 6,608 employers
nationwide were approved to bring in 41,894 agricultural workers. Ten Illinois
employers and 12 in Missouri used the program that year.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR./POST-DISPATCH - Eduardo Perez
of Guatemala works last week with a crew covering plants with plastic to protect
them for the winter at Home Nursery Inc. in Albers. Perez and many other workers
employed in the nursery business are migrant workers from Central America and
Mexico.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               8 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 8, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL PUTS ONUS ON CONGRESS/ BUSH'S PLAN FOR LEGALIZATION FAVORS
RENEWABLE VISAS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush proposed legalizing millions of foreign workers in a
plan that shoved the issue into the limelight Wednesday while leaving Congress
to squabble over the details.

Citing a "massive, undocumented economy" in the United States that employs
millions of foreign workers, Bush said it was time to fix immigration laws to
fill employment needs.

"Reform must begin by confronting a basic fact of life and economics: Some of
the jobs being generated in America's growing economy are jobs American citizens
are not filling," Bush said in a speech at the White House. "Yet these jobs
represent a tremendous opportunity for workers from abroad who want to work and
fulfill their duties as a husband or a wife, a son or a daughter."

The reaction was varied in Washington, as Republican sponsors of legalization
plans welcomed the spotlight onto the issue, while conservative Republicans said
Bush went too far, by offering legal work visas for those who have violated
immigration law. Many Democrats, union officials and immigration advocates said
the president's plan didn't go far enough and should have included a plan to
ease rules on permanent residency status for undocumented workers.

He offered not legislation but principles for Congress to heed as it grapples
with a burgeoning population of illegal immigrants, estimated at 8 million or
more, and the many businesses that employ them.

Bush wants a three-year temporary visa that can be renewed, but didn't say for
how long. His plan calls for a penalty of sorts for illegal workers, requiring
them to pay a registration fee to apply for the visa, while workers applying
from abroad would not. But he didn't say how much that fee should be. He wants
to expand the 140,000 employment-based permanent residency visas allowed each
year but didn't say how many more there should be.

But Bush was specific on one politically sensitive topic, particularly among
conservative Republicans who will be the toughest sell on a legalization plan.
He stressed that the work visas would be temporary and would not include a new
way for undocumented workers to seek permanent legal residency and an eventual
path to citizenship. The last major legalization plan in 1986 allowed illegal
workers to apply for a green card - legal permanent residency. The card allows a
path to U.S. citizenship after five years.

"I oppose amnesty, placing undocumented workers on the automatic path to
citizenship," said Bush, who acknowledged some temporary workers likely would
seek citizenship but would have to do so under current laws that place severe
hurdles to permanent residency for many of those now in the country illegally.
"They will not be given unfair advantage over people who have followed legal
procedures from the start."

The president did not persuade one of Congress' most ardent anti-immigration
voices. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., said the temporary visas should be awarded
only to those who apply from abroad and not to illegal workers.

"His plan will allow people already here illegally to gain access to legal
status, and that is amnesty," Tancredo said. "This proposal is disingenuous and
misleading. Any genuine temporary worker program must require workers to apply
for jobs from their home country and then return home at the end of employment."

Yet the plan won kudos from Republican sponsors of legalization proposals now in
Congress, including Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Sen. Larry Craig of Idaho.
While they prefer their own proposals, they welcomed Bush's decision to focus
his executive clout to the issue after dropping it as a priority after the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks.

"I commend the president for focusing the bright light of national attention on
them," Craig said.

Dave Bender, director of the Illinois Nurserymen's Association and a major
supporter of Craig's plan to legalize agricultural workers only, said he
believed the attention would help a legalization plan pass.

"Our bill has bipartisan support, but the problem is that a lot of conservative
Republicans were looking at it with a wary eye - and to have the president come
out and say he is for an immigration policy certainly strengthens our hand with
those conservative Republicans."

But immigration advocates, Democratic presidential candidates and union
officials were less enthused by Bush's proposal Wednesday. Their top concern was
the temporary nature of the visa and the lack of a path to permanent legal
status for illegal workers. The congressional plans with bipartisan support
include such a proposal.

"It's important to know the president actually wants immigration reform and that
he sees how critically, desperately, vitally important this is to the country,"
said Marti Jones of the Immigration Project in Granite City. "But I am extremely
concerned if we start thinking of guest workers as expendable: that they come
here at our whim and they do not have the choice of whether to stay or go - or
that their children cannot become a part of our society. Once you start having
your children here, if you don't have a way to get legal, you're going to stay
anyway. Their lives are here."

Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy with the National Council of La Raza,
agreed and suggested it was a sign that presidential re-election year politics -
not the needs of immigrants - might be prompting the proposal. She said that
before the Sept. 11 attacks, the Bush administration was discussing a path to
permanent legal status and not just a temporary worker program. "We are wary of
the political implications of this announcement," she said.

Stephen Legomsky, a Washington University professor of international law and an
expert in immigration law, predicts that the political climate will likely lead
to a vote on a legalization plan sometime this election year. But with the need
for Democratic votes to ensure its passage, he suspects Bush's proposal for a
temporary worker plan might expand in Congress.

"It's not necessarily in the interest of political candidates to be virulently
anti-immigrant now, because there's an appreciation for the voting power of many
ethnic groups that correspond to immigrant groups, particularly Latinos and East
Asians," Legomsky said. "There's enough of an incentive to solidify political
constituencies before the election that, one way or another, they'll find the
means to do so. It will probably be a guest workers' program. If I had to guess,
there might be a slightly more generous legalization component than there are in
(the president's) proposal."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION: FOCUS ON IMMIGRATION/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880/ / Link to more information on
the immigration proposal online at STLtoday.com/links.

TYPE: ANALYSIS/IMMIGRATION LAWS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               9 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 9, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

OPT FOR AMNESTY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 740 words


IMMIGRATION

PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH deserves praise for publicly opening the can of worms
that is American immigration policy. His solution -- a guest-worker program --
is perhaps not the best; a broad amnesty would be better. But Mr. Bush has
revived the debate out of which humane improvements may emerge.

The problem is that America cannot control its borders -- especially the Mexican
border -- short of imposing iron-curtain barriers that few Americans want to
see. So, despite tightened border security, we face a continued flow of poor
people risking death in the desert in hope of a better life.

There are now about 7 million illegal immigrants in the United States -- about
5.2 million of them from Mexico and Central America. There are 22,000 in
Missouri and 432,000 in Illinois.

They constitute a fearful underclass ripe for exploitation by unscrupulous
employers and criminals. And they're not going to leave.

Mr. Bush would offer three-year work permits to illegal immigrants now in
America. That would end the immigrants' fear and lessen the exploitation. They
could cross the border freely to visit their families until their permits
expire. Employers could also import temporary workers from abroad for jobs
Americans are unwilling to take. The work permits might be renewed, but the
workers eventually would be sent home.

Mr. Bush's plan offers mercy in the form of a three-year reprieve from
exploitation for immigrants. Some who might sneak across the border could cross
safely instead. But he offers no hope of permanent residency and citizenship.
Workers would fade back into the illegal netherworld when their work permits
expire.

The lack of a path to citizenship is a serious problem. This country was built
on the premise of equality, and we prospered by assimilating newcomers.
Immigrants arrive, learn American ways and become loyal citizens. We truly are a
melting pot, if an imperfect one.

The president's plan would toss aside this history of assimilation and replace
it with something different. Instead of future citizens, we would admit hired
help who have little hope of ever entering an American voting booth or becoming
truly secure in our society.

We would take an underclass of illegal workers and turn them into an underclass
of legal ones.

The president was vague on details. But the guest-worker program could become
indentured servitude, with workers bound to the employer who sponsors them and
subject to deportation if they quit.

Leaky as they are, American border controls do restrict the flow of illegal
immigrants. But a badly run guest-worker program could open the floodgates to a
vast supply of low-wage labor for American employers. The result could be lower
pay for unskilled Americans.

Mr. Bush says that immigrants would be admitted only for jobs that Americans
won't take. But willingness to take a job is often a function of what the job
pays. If there are not enough willing workers, employers must raise wages --
unless they can import cheap labor. A $9-an-hour janitor won't keep that wage
for long if his boss can import a poor Guatemalan willing to take $5.25.

America is already losing manufacturing jobs to low-wage countries. But many
service jobs -- for hotel maids, cooks and the like -- can't be exported. It
makes no sense to import low-wage labor to fill them. Better that we all pay a
little more for hotel rooms and hamburgers so that American maids and cooks can
get higher pay.

The problem of illegal immigration will never really be solved. Only a fence and
a stream separate our rich nation from poorer ones to the South. A better option
-- although not a perfect one -- would be to grant another blanket amnesty for
illegals who are working here now and have no criminal record. We could
instantly pull 7 million people out of fear and set them on the road to
citizenship. We did the same thing in 1987, and millions of new Americans are
better off for it.

Contrary to critics, an amnesty would not encourage more people to hop the
border. Illegal immigrants come because they are desperate for work right now.
The possibility of yet another amnesty -- perhaps in another 16 years -- isn't
much of an inducement.

Combine amnesty with a carefully controlled increase in legal immigration -- and
continued vigilance on the border -- and we might achieve a better life for our
immigrant neighbors without hurting American workers.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              10 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 13, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SENATE BEGINS DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION PLAN/ MCCAIN PROPOSAL MAKES PERMANENT STATUS
EASIER

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As Congress took its first look Thursday at a month-old temporary guest-worker
proposal by President George W. Bush, several senators begged their colleagues
to move on a plan to legalize foreign workers.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., began his plea by reading a newspaper account of a
police raid the day before at a home in Phoenix, where 158 illegal immigrants
were found in filthy conditions, being held by armed smugglers.

"We're not going to secure our border until we supply willing workers to willing
employers, who will then stem this swell of people coming across our border
illegally," McCain said.

McCain is the sponsor of a plan that, like Bush's proposal, would help legalize
some of the estimated 8 million undocumented workers here and bring in others
from abroad for most any job that U.S. citizens didn't want. But unlike Bush's
plan, McCain would also ease those workers' ability to seek a more permanent
status down the road. That is a major dividing line between those senators who
support such plans and those who don't.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., was the strongest naysayer on the Senate Judiciary
panel on Immigration and Border Security. He opposes even Bush's plan. He first
wants to see a federal crackdown on immigration law violators and new laws
granting local police the power to arrest illegal immigrants and enforce federal
immigration laws themselves.

"Sadly, I must say that we're further away than where we need to be," Sessions
said. "We've got a long way to go."

Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for border and transportation security, said
Bush's plan included a call for tighter enforcement. Bush's proposed 2005 budget
would double the money for work place enforcement.

Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, who sits on the immigration committee, also was among
the senators pleading for quick action. He is sponsoring with Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy, D-Mass., a legalization plan that focuses on agricultural workers. The
plan also provides for workers to earn their way to permanent legal status, and
Craig said he was frustrated that Bush's plan would not.

Bush's proposal calls for a three-year temporary work visa that could be
renewed. Craig said that was unlikely to appeal to many illegal immigrants with
families here.

"Is a father going to come forward, knowing he will have to leave the country,
knowing he has children here who are citizens?" Craig said. "I would doubt
that."

But Eduardo Aguirre, director of U.S. citizenship and immigration services, said
Bush wouldn't oppose making the proposal more palatable to families.

"You have in your power, as you craft this legislation, the opportunity to
extend for a significant period of time the renewal process here. (The
president) did not have a cap on that," Aguirre said.

Aguirre also expressed the Bush administration's willingness to roll back a law
that significantly affected most illegal immigrants' ability to legalize their
status here. Under a law passed in 1996, many immigrants who crossed the border
illegally and then left the United States have to wait outside the country
either three or 10 years to apply to return legally.

"I would suggest that ought to be waived," Aguirre said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/
Phone: 202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              11 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 24, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

GROUPS SEEK CHANGES TO ALLOW UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS TO DRIVE;
 IMMIGRANTS CAN GET JOBS BUT CAN'T LEGALLY DRIVE

BYLINE: Connie Farrow The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 549 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, MO.


Advocates for Hispanics and other immigrants plan to seek legislative changes
that would allow undocumented workers to drive legally in Missouri.

Dozens of people gathered at nine sites across the state Friday to discuss how
to bring immigrants who drive illegally into the state's system, ensuring that
they have insurance and know state driving laws.

"This proposal will make the roads of Missouri safer by enabling people who are
an important part of the work force to get a legal drivers license," said Genaro
Ruiz of the Hispanic Economic Development Committee in Kansas City.

The interactive conference was sponsored by University Outreach and Extension
and Alianzas, a group that seeks to develop a better understanding of language
and cultural differences.

It was held at University of Missouri at Kansas City and linked via interactive
television to sites in Springfield, Kirksville, Columbia, Mexico, St. Louis,
Sedalia, Reeds Spring and Joplin.

Rep. Henry Rizzo, D-Kansas City, sponsored a bill during the last session that
would have allowed drivers license applicants to present an Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number instead of a Social Security number. The Internal Revenue
Service issues ITINs to immigrants who are ineligible for Social Security
numbers.

The bill passed the House but it died in the Senate.

Kansas lawmakers also failed to approve a measure to allow undocumented workers
to drive legally during last year's session. Advocates wanted legislators to
allow noncitizens to receive regular drivers licenses, good for six years, with
an IRS tax identification number. Opponents argued that it could result in
residents from other states coming to get a drivers license.

Lynda Callon of the Kansas City Westside Community Action Network Center argued
that undocumented workers drive anyway. It is wrong that undocumented workers
can get a tax I.D. number to pay their taxes, yet they cannot get a drivers
license to drive to work, she said.

"We need to come up with some alternative documents that would serve the same
purpose," Callon said. "A lot of good people who just want to drive their
children to school and go to work or to the doctor are being hurt."

Ruiz said efforts are underway to get new House and Senate sponsors to back the
bill in the January session. He hoped to gain support from both political
parties, as well as from rural and urban areas.

The issue is important to Hispanics because of the shift in population in
Missouri since 1990. In 25 southwest Missouri counties, the number of Hispanics
grew from 7,579 in 1990 to 22,058 in 2000, the U.S. Census Bureau reported.

Yolanda Lorge of Grupo Latinoamericano in Springfield said racial profiling
incidents had increased since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Lorge recounted the experience of a businessman with a dual citizenship from
Germany and Argentina who was rejected for a temporary Missouri drivers license
even though he presented all the required paperwork. He sought a drivers license
so he could rent a car.

"He had everything they required, but the more paperwork he showed, the more
questions they asked," Lorge said. "They finally sent everything to Jefferson
City. After a month, he was approved. But he had lost a lot of time and a lot of
money."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              12 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 8, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HIGHLIGHTS OF BUSH'S PROPOSAL ON FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 169 words


President George W. Bush's proposed temporary worker program would:

Establish a three-year visa, matching employers with foreign workers for any job
where Americans are not available for the work.

Be open to foreign workers living abroad and those already working illegally in
the United States, as long as they had a U.S.-based employer to sponsor their
employment.

Be available to as many as 8 million illegal workers. That is the estimated
number of undocumented foreigners living here. As long as they could prove they
have already been working, they would be eligible for the plan.

Require illegal workers already in the United States to pay an unspecified
registration fee; workers applying from outside the United States would not.

Allow the three-year visa to be renewed. Officials have not said how renewals
would be allowed.

Raise the number of employment-based "green cards" that provide for permanent
legal residence from the current level of about 140,000 to an unspecified
number.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION: FOCUS ON IMMIGRATION

TYPE: ANALYSIS/IMMIGRATION LAWS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              13 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 22, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

TOWNS IN MEXICO WEIGH FUTURE OF MIGRANT PLANS

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson/ The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA DEL VALLE, MEXICO


Proposals for U.S. migrant worker reforms may decide the fate of half-deserted
Mexican villages like Santa Ana, where almost all the able-bodied men have gone
to the United States.

As the town with the highest per capita migration rate in Mexico - just under
half of its households have at least one family member working in the United
States - Santa Ana could be repopulated, or left even more empty, depending on
how, or if, U.S. rules are changed.

That goes for hundreds of similar villages across Mexico. About 10 percent of
the country's population has already gone north, and an additional 20 percent
say they would consider doing so if they could get visas.

Undocumented migrants who once traveled back and forth to their hometowns have
increasingly been staying in the United States because of increased border
security since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. The result is divided families,
desolate towns and half-finished houses started by migrants who hoped to return
one day but never came back.

But the migrant workers of Santa Ana could return, at least on the weekends or
holidays, under President George W. Bush's proposal to allow temporary work
visas.

"I want my parents to come home," says Cynthia Gonzalez, 6, has lived with her
grandmother since her parents left to work in California four years ago. "They
told me they would, that they'd come back to be with me."

When the headmaster asks students at Cynthia's school how many have parents or
other relatives in the United States, more than half of her nervous, giggling
first-grade classmates step forward.

Mexican migrants work all over the United States, from big cities in the West to
small towns in Georgia. They usually follow friends and relatives to a certain
city and work in the same industry. Often, the local migrant smuggler - there is
usually one in every migrant town - determines where people end up.

Bush's proposal has drawn criticism from people opposed to encouraging migrant
workers.

And there are those who want to make it even easier for migrants, proposing to
give migrant workers legal residency in the United States and the right to take
their families north with them.

That could wind up emptying Santa Ana and other Mexican towns almost entirely.

"It would be good for them to get legal residency up there, but Santa Ana could
wind up losing a lot of its residents," says Primo Aquino, 35, while weaving an
intricate carpet.

Aquino says he is practically the only male in his age group who hasn't left
Santa Ana, a Zapotec Indian town of 1,200 people in the brown hills east of
Oaxaca city.

Village elders are already having a hard time finding enough able-bodied men to
fill traditional posts in Santa Ana.

"Just us old men are left here," says the deputy mayor, Roman Bautista, 62.
"We'd like our people to return, especially our children."

Said the weaver Aquino: "Everybody has the same idea - to earn money up there
and start a business back here. What they don't think about is: What are they
going to sell and who are they going to sell to?"

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - Cynthia (Gonzalez)/ Parents work in United
States

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              14 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 2, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3604 words


* The Hispanic population is swelling here as undocumented workers desperate for
minimum-wage jobs settle down and persuade relatives in Mexico to brave a risky
border crossing to join them. They make much more money than at home, but pay a
price: months and even years of separation from spouses, parents and children.

One night in March, Dolores parked on the shoulder of Interstate 70 just west of
the Missouri River. A Ford pickup pulled over. She handed the driver $1,050, and
her 15-year-old son emerged from the truck's camper shell.

He was a little boy the last time she saw him, six years ago. That's when she
left Puebla, Mexico, in search of a better-paying job in the United States.
Their reunion capped years of guilt, tearful phone calls and six failed border
crossings by the boy.

"She didn't know who I was. She was expecting someone smaller," said Jose,
recounting the night when his mother at first stared at him, without
recognition, before embracing him.

Dolores, an illegal immigrant who has worked at restaurant and hotel jobs in St.
Louis County, said, "He had changed so much, I thought they'd brought me someone
else."

Jose's older brother made the same illegal trek across the U.S.-Mexico border in
June 2002 to reunite with their mother. Just as Dolores had crossed. And her
boyfriend before her.

Today, Dolores' household has grown to seven -- including the nephews who sleep
in the living room of her two-bedroom apartment in St. Ann, and her son, a
toddler who is the only U.S. citizen in the house.

Such "chain migration" from one specific place to another has long been a staple
of immigrants settling in places such as Los Angeles and Chicago. Now, it's
boosting Hispanic populations in less likely destinations, such as Omaha, Neb.,
Racine, Wis., towns in Georgia and North Carolina -- and enclaves across the St.
Louis area. The number of migrant workers here legally on temporary work visas
has also increased significantly in the past few years.

A succession of crackdowns on illegal border traffic over the past decade --
especially since 9-11 -- has made crossings for many migrants more of a one-way
street. Once they arrive, they are more likely to stay. Rather than making
return visits to Mexico and risking an uncertain and costlier border crossing to
resume work in the United States, they are choosing to send for relatives.

Mexican migration to the St. Louis area used to be far more scattershot,
according to Ann Rynearson of the International Institute.

"This new century is seeing dramatic changes with the role of Hispanics in St.
Louis," said Rynearson, senior vice president for culture and community at the
institute, as she addressed a statewide conference in March about the growth in
Hispanic immigrants. "Not only are the numbers rapidly growing, but there also
is relative concentration in economic sectors and residential areas."

The burgeoning undocumented population plays a large role in that growth. In
2002, the Census Bureau estimates, 37.4 million Hispanics lived in the United
States, compared with 22.4 million in 1990. Demographer Je ffrey Passel of the
Urban Institute estimates that 7.5 million were undocumented immigrants from
Latin America. Close to 50,000 undocumented immigrants lived in Missouri in
2002, he says, and 400,000 in Illinois.

Passel, who has extensively researched the nation's undocumented population,
noted a dramatic shift among newly arrived immigrants in the 1990s. While a
third of the nation's new immigrants were making California their point of
arrival in the early 1990s, California's share dropped to 22 percent in the
latter part of the decade. The states that picked up the slack were surprising.

"Those missing 11 percent went to places like Arkansas, Missouri, North Carolina
and a whole host of other places," Passel said. "In the late '90s, we found
there was a real spreading out of the Latino population, the Mexican population
and the undocumented population. It started with people moving from California
to other states. And then over the decade, as they moved into these new places,
their friends or relatives, instead of going to California, went to these other
places. (They) bypass California and go straight to these new areas -- and it
opens up a lot of economic niches for these immigrants to fill."

In some places, such as small towns across Nebraska and in southwestern Missouri
where meat-processing plants have opened and hired hundreds of new arrivals, the
change in the population has come virtually overnight. In the St. Louis area,
the transformation is more gradual, happening neighborhood by neighborhood.

Hispanics represented 2.2 percent of Missouri's population in 2002, according to
Census Bureau estimates. But neighborhoods across the St. Louis area have
concentrations that far exceeded that in the 2000 census count: Edmundson at
nearly 6 percent, St. Ann more than 4 percent. The same growth has hit a cluster
of neighborhoods in south St. Louis -- from Tower Grove, where the Hispanic
population exceeds 4 percent, to Benton Park, Gravois Park and Carondelet, with
a 5 percent Hispanic population, ac cording to 2000 figures, the most recent
available.

The area's public schools are seeing the change at a fast pace. Four years ago,
2,367 Hispanic students attended public schools in St. Louis and St. Louis
County, and the counties of St. Charles, Warren, Franklin, Jefferson and
Lincoln. Today, that number is almost 4,000. More than 1,400 are new arrivals
who are in special courses to increase their English skills, and those new
arrivals are concentrated in St. Louis city schools and the Ritenour, Hazelwood,
Pattonville and St. Charles school districts.

Sister Concha de la Cruz, who has ministered to Hispanics at St. Cecilia
Catholic Church for the past eight years, said the growth has been palpable in
south St. Louis. When she arrived, about 50 parishioners would show up each week
for the church's Spanish-language Mass. The number is now 350 -- and they make
up more than half of the parish.

"Every week, we're registering two to three families," said de la Cruz, who was
awestruck with the even larger growth at Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church
in Ferguson. "Back in '96 or '97, we went to Guadalupe and there were only about
35 people (at Spanish Mass). It was hardly anybody, and a very low-key church,
even smaller than we were. But, all of a sudden , it blossomed, and now over at
Guadalupe they have two Masses in Spanish. After about '99, it was
standing-room-only for the one Mass they had."

"It's easier just to stay"

It was a cold morning on Dec. 12, the day that honors Mexico's patron saint, the
Virgin of Guadalupe. Many Mexicans in St. Louis used to abandon the area at this
time of year to visit family in Mexico.

But on this day, the parking lot at Our Lady of Guadalupe was packed long before
the 6 a.m. Mass to honor the beloved dark-skinned virgin.

Inside, more than 600 people gathered for the service in Spanish. They filled
the pews and stood in the aisles of the ample sanctuary. From there, others
overflowed into the foyer, packing every inch of space all the way to the front
door, the largest crowd yet for the special Mass.

The crowd included many men in their late teens and early 20s, the traditional
age of those who leave their country to work in the United States. But lots of
women were there, too, toting babies and chasing after gleeful youngsters who
darted among the legs of the crowd.

Dolores was among them, with her boyfriend and their baby.

"It was so full this year," she said. "Before, a lot of people would be in
Mexico, but it gets so much harder every year to get back that it's easier just
to stay. So they don't go as much."

Dolores hadn't planned to stay when she came to St. Louis in 1998. She expected
to return to her boys after a year with the savings from her restaurant job.

But the money kept her here -- her job paid more in a day than she earned in a
seven-day workweek in Puebla.

"I didn't go back, because I was working two jobs and had the oppo rtunity to
give more to my sons, and if I'd left, it would be worse for them," said
Dolores, who feared the stepped-up border security might keep her from returning
to St. Louis if she went back to Puebla. "I decided I couldn't do it."

She was right about the border.

"You have more Border Patrol agents, more sensors, more cameras, which increase
the likelihood that you will get caught attempting to cross," says Richard
Stana, Homeland Security and Justice Director for the General Accounting Office,
the investigative arm of Congress. He said tighter federal security along the
Southwest border has actually decreased the number of apprehensions of illegal
border-crossers.

"Fewer people are trying to cross," he said. "But that's partly because the
people who crossed before didn't return. They stayed."

Francisco's story

Many stay in Fairmont City, a largely Hispanic town that includes plenty of
legal residents who can come and go across the border as they please.

But other Fairmont City residents without legal documents no longer dare to make
the trip.

Francisco, who asked that the pseudonym be used to conceal his identity, already
took the risk and says he won't do it again. He is 27 and has lived and worked
around Fairmont City since age 15, when he followed in the footsteps of cousins
and made his first illegal crossing to work here. He started as a hired hand in
local corn and tomato fields, $4.15 an hour. Today, he makes $13.28 an hour
soldering pipes.

Since arriving in Fairmont City in 1991, Francisco has returned to Mexico three
times: in 1993; in 1996, when he married Maria and ended their honeymoon by
scaling a fence into California and sneaking past security points stuffed into
the spare-wheel well of a white station wagon; and again last year, which he
says will be his final visit home so long as he remains undocumented.

"There's a big difference now," he says. "I never battled so much to cross
over."

His last trip to Mexico was prompted by his father's unexpected death in a car
crash, which posed a dilemma for Francisco: Should he return to his grieving
mother to pay his respects? Or was it too risky to leave behind his wife, son
and newborn daughter?

It was the message relayed from a friend who had visited his father months
before that haunted him most: "When will he come visit?" his father had asked
after the son whom he hadn't seen in seven years. "When I'm dead?"

Francisco went home for his father's funeral in central western Mexico. But it
took four tries over a month and a half to make it back to Fairmont City. Before
he could return, his wife and their two young children ran out of money.

"I don't know how to drive. I wasn't working. I don't speak English," Maria
says, recounting the desperation of those weeks. "Friends lent me money to help
pay for the house. I kept wondering, 'What will happen to us?'"

Francisco wondered the same thing each time his attempt to cross failed. Twice,
he was caught trying to cross the border through Arizona and again when he was
scaling a fence on the outskirts of Nogales. He took a bus westward to Mexicali,
where he tried crossing at the port of entry into California with a false ID.
Immigration officials took one look at the photograph and tossed him into
detention for 14 hours before sending him back to Mexicali.

He made the long trip back to his family ranch to regroup for another stab at
the Arizona border. Security crackdowns in the urban border areas of California
and Texas have made the remote desert of Arizona the preferred crossing point
for much of the illegal border traffic in recent years.

A smuggler charged him $1,800 for what turned out to be a successful trip in
January 2003 that began with a 32-hour bus ride from his hometown to Caborca, a
city about 50 miles south of the Arizona border.

"It was in the middle of the desert. We crossed and walked seven or eight
hours," said Francisco, who slept in dry creek beds to avoid detection. "We came
in a group of 16 people. Then they put six of us in one small pickup truck. We
rode three hours on top of each other before we arrived in Phoenix. From there,
I went to Utah -- 12 of us in a minivan for 14 hours. Some were going to
Chicago. Some to Indianapolis. Some to Texas."

One full day longer in the minivan, and he was back in Fairmont City.

Hector is another illegal immigrant from Fairmont City who doesn't plan to go
back to Mexico. "It's so much harder to get back now, especially in the last
three to four years," said Hector, 34.

Better in St. Louis

Like so many others who have opted to settle permanently, even without work
permits or legal status, Hector has children born here. They are something their
parents cannot be, for now: U.S. citizens. Hector's wife came from the Mexican
state of Michoacan. But they met in Fairmont City, because her brothers, like
his brother, came here first and urged her to come and work here, too.

"It's like a funnel," jokes Hector's father, Guadalupe, back home in Zacatecas
state in the town of El Salto, from where all three of his sons and scores of
neighbors have poured, one after another, into Fairmont City and St. Louis.
"It's cheap to live there. They'll always find a place to stay, because they
know people there."

The first trickles of increasing immigration to the St. Louis area began more
than two decades ago with families like that of Lola Marquez.

She came from a farm in El Jaral, Zacatecas, where there was no running water
and no electricity to power a light bulb. There, she toted water from a well and
washed clothes near a dam. She married in Mexico but spent her honeymoon running
across the hills of Tijuana in an attempt to get to a better life in the United
States.

Immigration authorities caught her several times. The first time, U.S. agents at
a border station ordered her upstairs for processing. "I had to go up an
escalator and it scared me. I'd never seen one before."

Nearly 30 years ago, she finally made it to Chicago with her husband, who worked
in a junkyard. A few years later, he moved her and her two small children to
Fairmont City, where his boss had opened another junkyard.

It wasn't Chicago, where there were neighbors who spoke her language.

"At first I didn't like it. I was so sad. But then my children were growing up
and they were born here," Marquez said. "If I were to take them back to Mexico,
they'd have to do work on the farm, and I didn't want them to do that. So even
though I didn't want to, I stayed for them."

Marquez and her husband legalized their residency status under a 1986 law that
provided amnesty for millions of undocumented workers.

Their experience and word-of-mouth descriptions from others like them prompted
more to come here illegally, drawn from Mexican towns like hers by the promise
of jobs in the junkyard, on farms, in nurseries, at produce-packing houses. The
St. Louis area, including Fairmont City, was far better than Chicago or Los
Angeles. The rent was cheap, half as much as Los Angeles. There were plenty of
jobs and the pay was better, not driven down by the competition of so many other
immigrants.

After following his cousins to Fairmont City, Francisco tried Chicago for a bit
-- working in a junkyard and a restaurant. But after he went back to Mexico to
marry Maria, there was no question where he would return.

"It's just better in Fairmont City than in Chicago," he says. "There's more
gangs and crime up there and the hectic pace. But here, the kids can play
outside."

Jose's journey

Back in Puebla, Mexico, Dolores heard some of the same stories from her
boyfriend as he encouraged her to follow him to St. Ann in 1998.

The salaries that were just above minimum wage sounded too good to be true for
Dolores, whose husband had left when their boys were very small. She was already
struggling to pay their expenses by working a 12-hour shift in a candy store,
seven days a week. Her take-home pay: 250 pesos, now worth less than $25.

"I never got to see my kids, because I had to work seven days a week," Dolores
said. She decided if she wasn't going to see her children, she would at least go
get the dollars to make a better life for them.

She joined her boyfriend in St. Ann and took a minimum-wage job in a restaurant,
working two full shifts every day, six days a week.

"They paid me $800 to $900 every two weeks," Dolores marveled. "And I began to
build a house with what I sent back to Puebla. After a year here, I started
building the house: two bedrooms, a bathroom, a kitchen. My son was living there
next door to my parents. And I'd send my sons $150 every two weeks."

Two years ago, when he was 15, her older son decided to follow his mother's
footsteps.

He went to work right away. "He didn't want to study. He didn't do very well in
school in Mexico because I was gone," Dolores said. "He can barely read Spanish.
So he told me, 'Mommy, I want to earn money.'"

Her son, now 17, works six nights a week, preparing appetizers in a restaurant.
During the day, when Dolores is at work cleaning hotel rooms for $7.50 an hour,
he takes care of his 18-month-old half brother.

Their brother Jose joined the family in March. Less than three weeks after he
arrived, Jose was in middle school, one of the latest in a growing number of
local schoolchildren in classes designed to boost their English skills.

Jose's journey from Puebla to St. Ann took far more time than his older
brother's. Last November, another family member made the trek with him to the
Arizona border. Four times they crossed it: A nine-hour walk through the desert
the first time. A four-hour walk the second. Hidden in a train car the third and
fourth. Each time, they were caught. After the fourth time, they went back home
to Puebla.

Undeterred, Jose returned a fifth time and was caught again.

This time, they held him 24 hours before handing him over to Mexico's Department
of Children and Families. Dolores wired them $50, and they put him on a plane
back to his grandparents.

A tearful Dolores urged her son to be patient, and stay put.

But Jose was desperate to see his mother. In a phone interview with a reporter
in January, he explained that the loneliness since his brother had left was too
much:

"I want to be with my mother, because I'm here alone now," Jose said from an
aunt's home in Puebla. "I still want to go back."

So on Feb. 20, he arrived at the border again. He was caught and released again.
And he started over again at the New Mexico border.

Bundled in four sweatshirts and three pairs of pants to protect against the
nighttime desert chill, Jose walked for two nights toward the town of Deming,
N.M., as part of a group of 20 led by a smuggler. This time, they made it to the
rendezvous point, where they were driven to a Phoenix drop house.

Dolores wired $1,050 to Phoenix -- the first half of the smuggler's fee. Jose
left in the back of a Ford pickup jammed with 15 people.

"Everyone was on top of each other for one day and one night," Jose said.

Finally, they reached Missouri and pulled over in St. Charles County. That's
where Dolores handed the last $1,050 to the driver. Jose got out and the truck
pulled away, headed toward Pennsylvania, where other families waited to add
links to their own chains of migration.

= = = =

Seeking legal status

Source: Daniel Kowalski, editor of Bender's Immigration Bulletin

Many migrants living illegally in the United States have been here for many
years, yet still have no legal status. Here are the ways to seek permanent legal
status -- the so-called "green card" that is the first steppingstone to
citizenship -- and why it's so difficult to achieve:

FAMILY. Legal U.S. residents or citizens can petition for a green card on behalf
of family members who are citizens of foreign countries. The government limits
the number of these green cards, and the wait can be from two years to two
decades. U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants are automatically American
citizens; those children are not eligible to petition on behalf of their parents
until they are 21.

JOB. Permanent visas can be awarded to those who come to work in permanent,
year-round jobs that cannot be filled by U.S. citizens or residents. Employers
must prove that no one else is qualified or available for that work. An example:
sushi chefs.

DIVERSITY. Each year, the government holds a "lottery" from millions of
applicants to award green cards to 55,000 people from countries that provide the
fewest immigrants to the United States (e.g., Ireland). Mexicans do not qualify.

INVESTMENT. These visas go to foreigners who agree to invest at least $1 million
in the United States in a business that creates at least 10 jobs here for people
other than their family members.

ASYLUM/REFUGEE. Permanent resident status can be awarded to those who can prove
they face persecution in their home country.

DOMESTIC ABUSE. The illegal spouse of an abusive spouse who is a legal U.S.
resident or citizen can apply for permanent legal residence.

HARDSHIP. Illegal residents living continuously in the United States for 10
years can apply for permanent legal status if they are of "good moral character"
and can prove their deportation would create an "exceptional and extremely
unusual hardship" for their legal-resident spouse or children. The claim is
difficult to prove and can result in deportation if the claim is refused.
Limited to 4,000 people a year.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE/First
in a four-part series

NOTES: HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/
E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880/ / Photographer Huy
Richard Mach/ E-mail: hmach@post-dispatch.com/ / This is the first in a
four-part series/ Monday: EL SALTO/ST. LOUIS - A village in Mexico benefits from
the many residents who move to St. Louis for work and send back money-- but
suffers from resulting family separations. Tuesday: CROSSING/CONFLICT -
Volunteers and vigilantes patrol the Arizona border in an attempt to keep
illegal immigrants out of the United States. Sunday: SOLUTIONS/POLITICS -
Missouri and Illinois employers are hiring thousands of legal foreign workers
for low-wage temporary jobs, but here and nationwide the demand has far
outstripped the legal limits. A look at the controversy over proposals to
legalize more workers./ / Series background/ Post-Dispatch reporter Karen
Branch-Brioso was one of 17 Border Justice fellows named last fall by the
University of Southern California's Annenberg Institute for Justice and
Journalism. The institute sponsored an eight-day conference in November in towns
along both sides of the U.S.-Mexican border. The Post-Dispatch assumed the
balance of the costs for this report, which looks at the impact of stepped-up
border security on immigrants in the St. Louis area./ This series in one
instance uses a pseudonym and in others uses real names but omits surnames to
protect the identities of immigrants who are in the United States illegally.
These were the only conditions under which these immigrants would interviewed.
Actual names are used for immigrants here legally, and for family members in
Mexico./ Keep up with this series online at STLtoday.com/ immigration.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2004



CORRECTION:
A photo caption with this story about Mexican immigrants in St. Louis misstated
the object of the prayers of a woman in the photo. She was praying to St. Jude
Thaddeus for the safe journey of her son, not to a statue of the saint.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP(8) Post-Dispatch Graphic/Chart - Children of
immigrants/ Sources: Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
and Illinois State Board of Education/ St. Louis-area school districts with the
most Hispanic students who are taking courses in English as a second language./
/
Missouri districts    County        '99-'00  '00-'01  '01-'02   '02-'03/ St.
Louis             St. Louis city    221      321      290       414/ Ritenour
              St. Louis          55       79      121      144/ Hazelwood
             St. Louis          45       72       80      122/ Pattonville R-III

     St. Louis          46       47       75      112/ St. Charles R-VI      St.
Charles         59       73       93       95/ / Illinois districts/
Collinsville Dist 10   Madison            51       74       97       95/ East
St. Louis 189    St. Clair          73       49       56       55/ Granite City
Dist 9   Madison             7         0       40       38/ / (9) Post-Dispatch
Graphic/Map - MEXICO/ Shows locations of: Mexicali, Nogales, Puebla, El Salto in
ZACATECAS STATE and Rancho La Purisima in JALISCO STATE./ (* Note: This map ran
only in the THREE STAR edition, page A12.)< < ; Photos by HUY RICHARD
MACH/POST-DISPATCH/ (1) Color Photo - Alfredo Otero, a carpenter with Home
Restoration and Remediation, works on a house last month in St. Louis. Otero
came to the area from Durango, Mexico, on a tourist visa when he was 17 and
became a citizen in 1989. In 2002, the Census Bureau estimates, 37.4 million
Hispanics lived in the United States, compared with 22.4 million in 1990./ /
Correction published Saturday, May 15, 2004 - This photo caption misstated the
object of the prayers of a woman in the photo. She was praying to St. Jude
Thaddeus for the safe journey of her son, not to a statue of the saint./ / (2)
Dolores (left), an illegal immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, with her son Jose, who
is holding a statue of St. Jude Thaddeus to be blessed at a Spanish Mass in
March at Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church in Ferguson. Delores paid
smugglers $2,100 to bring her son to the St. Louis area from Mexico. She prayed
to the statue for the safe return of her son./ (3) Photo - Jose cleans up the
living room of his family's St. Ann apartment before leaving for his first day
of middle school in March. Jose tried and failed six times to cross the
U.S.-Mexico border before finally making it through./ (4) Photo - Dolores and
her son Jose study an old dictionary in March so Jose can learn some simple
English phrases before he goes to middle school here for the first time. Jose
and his mother were separated for six years before he crossed the U.S.-Mexico
border to join her in St. Ann. (* Note: The THREE STAR ran this as a Color
Photo, page A1.)/ (5) Photo - Dancers enjoy a concert featuring three Mexican
bands last week at the Casa Loma Ballroom in St. Louis. Hispanic immigrants are
being drawn to the St. Louis area because of the area's cost of living and
abundance of jobs./ (6) Photo - Maria, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, holds
her 18-month-old daughter in the kitchen of their home in Fairmont City in
March. More and more undocumented and documented Hispanic immigrants are
bypassing a traditional destination -- California -- and settling in the St.
Louis area and other smaller cities across the country./ (7) Photo - Hispanics
leave Ash Wednesday Mass in February at Holy Rosary Catholic Church in Fairmont
City. The town is largely Hispanic, with many legal immigrants as well as
undocumented workers./ (This photo appeared only in the EARLY FIVE STAR
Edition.)

TYPE: PROFILE/DOLORES, JOSE, FRANCISCO/HECTOR, LOLA MARQUEZ/ST. LOUIS HISPANIC
IMMIGRANTS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              15 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   February 2, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

INS REPORTS JUMP IN ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of immigrants living illegally in the United States jumped by 1
million in less than four years, the government reported Friday.

In the latest count, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reported that
roughly 7 million immigrants, most of them Mexicans, were living illegally in
the United States as of January 2000. It based those figures on the 2000 census
and its own statistics.

That's an increase over the 5.8 million illegal immigrants the agency said lived
in the country as of October 1996. The population grew on average during the
1990s by 350,000 a year.

The totals are likely to trigger further outcry from groups seeking greater
restrictions on immigration and tougher enforcement of immigration laws.

"These numbers again confirm ... that America has lost control of its borders,"
said Steve Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that wants to curb immigration.

John Gay, a lobbyist for the American Hotel & Lodging Association, said the
numbers shouldn't be a surprise because "we all know how broken the system is."
The association lobbies on behalf of businesses who rely on immigrant labor.

"If you've got an economy that is sucking that many workers into it and no
reasonably legal means to bring them in, then it's broken," Gay said.

Mexicans made up 69 percent, or 4.8 million, of the illegal immigrant population
in 2000, compared with 58 percent in 1990, the immigration service said.

The new estimates are based on the foreign-born population counted in the 2000
census, combined with agency statistics on immigrants admitted to the country,
deportations and numbers of nonimmigrant residents admitted, such as temporary
workers.

Aside from Mexico, other countries that each was the source of more than 100,000
citizens illegally in the United States include El Salvador, Guatemala,
Colombia, Honduras, China and Ecuador.

The immigration service said California had the most illegal immigrants, about
2.2 million, or 32 percent of the national total. States with the largest
numerical increases in the 1990s were California, Texas, Illinois, Arizona,
Georgia and North Carolina.

Some of the highest growth occurred in states where immigrants traditionally
have not settled. Georgia's immigrant population was estimated at 228,000 in
2000, up from 34,000 in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              16 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 31, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: FLOOD OF ILLEGAL ALIENS ACROSS SOUTHERN BORDER IS
DAMAGING AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 413 words


Two recent letters took exception to the May 5 immigration reform rally at the
West County Shopping Center by our Council of Conservative Citizens.

Sandra Marchewa objected, in her May 10 letter, since she apparently identifies
with those Third World cesspools where the right to peaceably assemble is as
alien as indoor plumbing.

Mexicans and the Taliban were "lumped together" because our porous border with
Mexico provides easy entry for both terrorists and illegal aliens from Latin
America, in addition to massive quantities of illegal drugs. I did not imply
that all illegal Mexican immigrants are potential terrorists.

Europeans were here long before those "indigenous inhabitants" alluded to by
both letters, as Kennewick Man and Penon Woman bear eloquent testimony. Carbon
dating proves that white Europeans inhabited the North American land mass for
thousands of years before the Bering Straits provided a land bridge for Asian
migrants, who eventually massacred those whites.

In point of fact, European immigrants of the 19th and 20th centuries did share a
common cultural ethos with white Americans, enabling enormous numbers to
successfully assimilate - in contrast to our current, disastrous experience with
the dregs of the Third World. That common c ultural ethos consists primarily of
Judeo-Christian traditions of rule of law, monotheism, democracy, individualism
and natural rights.

Diversity does not make our country great, as Marchewa alleges and, in fact, it
is bankrupting California as well as the emergency medical systems of many
border states, where illegals obtain free medical care courtesy of American
taxpayers.

I do many productive things, but teaching skills to illegal immigrants, as she
suggests, will never be one of them. I will leave such endeavors to the
apologists for our immigration debacle.

Also, a May 24 letter from John Gaal of the Carpenters Union added a disjointed
commentary, attributing our efforts to a lack of knowledge or poor schooling,
which he alleges bring "shame on the school system" that I attended. John
Burroughs and Washington University taught me to use facts, evidence, logic and
reason.

If Gaal would do likewise, he would find that the flood of illegal aliens across
our southern border has severely damaged the unionized building trades in
southern California, where that $6 an hour wage he decries has wreaked havoc on
formerly middle-class households.

Earl P. Holt III

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              17 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

           February 26, 2004 Thursday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

OBERWEIS CAMPAIGNS IN OPPOSITION TO BUSH'S PLANS FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


In one of his latest television commercials, Republican U.S. Senate candidate
Jim Oberweis talks about foreigners coming to take American jobs as he flies in
a helicopter over Soldier Field, which he says could be filled each week with
illegal immigrants.

Oberweis is staking his hopes in his second campaign for the Senate on illegal
immigration - an issue on which he has split from Republican President George W.
Bush.

The dairy owner warns in two television commercials that 10,000 illegal aliens
come to the United States each day to take jobs and get free health care, which
he contends will be paid for by taxpayers. The ads, which began airing statewide
Tuesday, have angered some immigrant rights groups.

"Jim Oberweis is a phony, and I hope people will see through it," said Joshua
Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights. "Two years ago, he ran as a moderate Republican. He lost. This time,
he's coming back as a straight-talking conservative and picking on immigrants."

The ads also might be a sign of a growing conservative split over Bush's plan to
grant legal status to millions of immigrant workers who are in the country
illegally. He would offer three-year "temporary worker" status but not a chance
at citizenship. Mike Lawrence, interim director of the Public Policy Institute
at Southern Illinois University, said Oberweis is attempting to "develop an
issue that will resonate with voters who typically vote in Republican primaries,
and they tend to be more conservative than mainstream Republicans."

Oberweis spokesman Bill Kenyon acknowledged that the campaign hopes to get
support from conservative Republicans but said the ads will resonate with all
voters in tough economic times.

Steven Camarota, research director for the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors greater controls on illegal immigration, said
Oberweis' statistics are based on the number of people who try to cross the
border each year.

U.S. Border Patrol officials say they catch one in three people who try to cross
the border, and they catch about 1.2 million people each year, Camarota said.
That totals more than 3 million people who try to cross, which breaks down to
about 10,000 a day, he said.

About 8 million immigrants, and perhaps as many as 11 million, live in the
United States illegally, according to most estimates. Illinois is home to about
500,000 of them.

A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV poll released Monday showed Oberweis trailing
investment banker Jack Ryan among likely GOP voters, 30 percent to 12 percent.
Oberweis finished second in a three-way Republican primary for U.S. Senate in
2002.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              18 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 8, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; World Digest Column; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 648 words


Publisher admits it used WWII slave labor indirectly

German publisher Bertelsmann will adopt as its official history a report by an
independent panel of historians that found the company indirectly used Jewish
slave laborers during World War II.

On Monday, chief executive Gunter Thielen reaffirmed the firm's "sincere regret"
over inaccuracies in the company's previous history and its activities during
the Nazi era. Bertelsmann asked Israeli historian Saul Friedlaender in 1998 to
investigate its wartime activities, after a German journalist accused the
publisher of covering up its Nazi ties.

A commission led by Bertelsmann found that the company used no slave laborers at
its headquarters in Guetersloh but that Jews were forced to work at printing
facilities used by Bertelsmann in Nazi-occupied Lithuania - and probably Latvia.

CANADA

15 are arrested, accused of smuggling illegal aliens

A joint Canadian-U.S. police operation arrested 15 people on suspicion of
smuggling illegal immigrants from South Asia through Canada to the United
States, police said Monday.

The large-scale smuggling schemes involved people with forged passports and
posing as large tour groups who entered Canada in Toronto, Montreal and
Vancouver, then made their way into the United States, said Inspector Steve
Martin of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

Charges include membership in a criminal organization and conspiracy to violate
U.S. immigration laws. An investigation revealed "a core group of people
smugglers based in the Toronto area was responsible for the vast majority of
South Asia migrants being smuggled" into Canada and then into the United States,
Martin said.

YEMEN

French agents will check for terrorism in ship blast

France sent counterterrorism agents to Yemen on Monday to investigate whether
terrorists caused an explosion and fire in a French oil tanker. A U.S. official
said the damage suggests the blast was an accident.

The fire was put out Monday after burning for hours. Pushed by strong winds, the
tanker Limburg was swaying in the sea some 15 miles from the coast, surrounded
by oil slicks.

A senior U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said it looks as
though the explosion Sunday occurred inside the tanker, which would "lead to the
conclusion that it probably was an accident."

COLOMBIA

Rebel commander is killed by troops, military reports

A rebel commander responsible for kidnapping presidential candidate Ingrid
Betancourt was killed by Colombian army troops, a military official said Monday.

Jose Arroyave, a regional commander of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC, was among seven rebels killed Sunday in a military offensive,
Gen. Roberto Pizarro said.

Pizarro told RCN radio that Arroyave was responsible for the kidnapping of
Betancourt and her campaign manager, Clara Rojas. They were taken hostage in
February when they drove into a former rebel safe haven. Neither Betancourt nor
Rojas has been heard from since rebels released a video in July in which
Betancourt urged the government to reopen peace talks.

CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

Former defense minister is cleared in coup attempt

A former defense minister was acquitted Monday of taking part in a failed coup
last year and freed after more than a year in jail.

Jean-Jacques Demafouth, defense minister from 2000 until he was fired and
arrested in August last year, was cleared by Judge Zachary Ndouba, who cited
lack of evidence. Forty-four others also were acquitted, but 30 soldiers, most
of low rank, were convicted and sentenced to terms ranging from one to 10 years.

In August, former military ruler Gen. Andre Kolingba was convicted in absentia
of taking part in the failed coup and sentenced to death. Kolingba ruled Central
African Republic for 12 years before losing the presidential election to
Ange-Felix Patasse in 1993.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD FOCUS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              19 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 26, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

3 IMMIGRATION AGENTS ARE ACCUSED IN RAID THAT LED TO MEXICAN'S DEATH;
 VICTIM WAS DENIED CARE FOR HOURS AFTER INCIDENT, INDICTMENT CHARGES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Three U.S. immigration agents were charged with beating a Mexican and denying
him medical care during a raid that left him paralyzed from the neck down and
led to his death a year later.

Immigration and Naturalization Service deportation officers Carlos Reyna,
Richard Henry Gonzales and Louis Rey Gomez are accused of violating Serafin
Olvera-Carrera's civil rights in the raid on March 25, 2001. All three were
freed Tuesday on $30,000 bail.

The victim's family expressed anger that the charges did not go further.

"We want them to be charged with murder, because that's what they are -
murderers," Martha Olvera, Olvera-Carrera's sister-in-law, said in Wednesday's
Houston Chronicle.

Olvera-Carrera, 48, died Feb. 24 after family members requested he be taken off
life support. He was beginning to improve and communicate early this year until
he suffered heart and respiratory problems in February that left him brain dead.

The father of five had been living with other illegal immigrants and working as
a roofer at the time of the raid.

A lawsuit filed by his family contends an officer jumped Olvera-Carrera after he
was handcuffed, then agents picked him up after he had suffered a broken neck
and let him drop to the floor. He was blasted with pepper spray after his neck
injury, the lawsuit said.

Olvera-Carrera first received medical attention several hours later in New
Braunfels, Texas, more than 100 miles from Bryan, Texas.

The indictment accuses Reyna, 42, of beating Olvera-Carrera, and accuse s
Gonzales, 36, of dousing him with pepper spray. Reyna, Gonzales and Gomez, 36,
all of San Antonio, are accused of denying Olvera-Carrera medical care after his
paralyzing injury.

The INS agents were arrested as they showed up for work Tuesday at their San
Antonio offices. They were suspended with pay. Reyna and Gonzales face up to 20
years in prison if convicted, Gomez up to 10 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshots; (1) (Carlos) Reyna - Accused of beating illegal
immigrant; (2) (Richard Henry) Gonzales - Allegedly used pepper spray on victim;
(3) (Louis Rey) Gomez - Accused of denying care to victim

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              20 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 16, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Edition

11 IN RAILCAR PROBABLY DIED PAINFULLY, OFFICIALS SAID;
 VICTIMS APPARENTLY BOARDED TRAIN IN MEXICO IN JUNE, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, IOWA


Eleven suspected illegal immigrants whose badly decomposed bodies were found in
a locked railroad car probably died slowly and painfully from severe overheating
or asphyxiation, authorities said Tuesday.

The victims apparently boarded the grain hopper in Mexico four months ago, said
Jerry Heinauer, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
for Nebraska and Iowa.

Their nationalities were unknown, and authorities said they did not know if the
victims were men, women or children.

The car had been latched from the outside and there was no evidence of food or
water inside, Sheriff Tom Hogan said. He said it was difficult to count the
huddled bodies; authorities said there were as many as 11.

Authorities removed the bodies Tuesday, one day after they were discovered near
Denison, 60 miles northeast of Omaha, Neb. The rail car was sealed and moved to
Des Moines for examination by investigators.

Heinauer said authorities did not yet know if the victims were being smuggled,
but he said the case fits the pattern of some smuggling operations.

He said he was told by Mexican officials that the rail car left Matamoros,
Mexico, in June. It had been parked long-term in Oklahoma since then, before
being brought to Denison.

Julio Salinas, a supervisory agent with the U.S. Border Patrol at McAllen,
Texas, said it is not unusual for immigrants to cross the border in rail cars.
He said trains are often checked by Border Patrol and customs agents as they
pass through cities.

"Most recently, a couple of months ago, we found 26 that had been inside a
hopper car a couple of hours, and some of them were dehydrated," Salinas said.
"There were no fatalities. We do come across situations like that."

He said immigrants take life-threatening risks when they climb into a grain car
on a smuggler's promise of freedom.

"There are some boxcars or grain hoppers that can only be opened from the
outside," Salinas said.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE TWO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Firefighters in Des Moines, Iowa,
cut an access hole Tuesday in the side of a railroad car that was found Monday
to contain as many as 11 badly decomposed bodies of suspected illegal
immigrants. The bodies were discovered west of Denison, Iowa, and the rail car
was sealed and shipped to Des Moines for examination.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              21 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 6, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 301 words


MIAMI

U.S. steps up patrols to stop illegal immigrants

The Coast Guard said Tuesday that it has stepped up sea and air patrols in
response to a possible increase in the flow of illegal immigrants from Haiti,
the Dominican Republic and Cuba.The increase was announced as 19 Haitians were
sent back home. They were the only ones who failed to get ashore when an
overcrowded wooden freighter carrying more than 225 Haitians ran aground in
Miami one week ago.

The other immigrants aboard the freighter, all Haitians except for three people
from the Dominican Republic, made it ashore and remain in detention. They await
asylum hearings, except for six Haitians accused of running the smuggling
operation.

WASHINGTON

Sniper case authorities look at Arizona killing

Authorities said Tuesday they are investigating whether John Allen Muhammad and
John Lee Malvo killed a man on a Tucson, Ariz., golf course last March.

If the accused snipers are linked to the Tucson slaying, it would extend the
reach of the serial killings to almost every corner of the nation. They have
been linked to 17 shootings, 13 of them fatal, in Virginia, Washington, D.C., ,
Maryland, Alabama, Louisiana and the state of Washington. Police are
investigating the men in three other shootings.

WASHINGTON

Court won't halt execution of mentally ill man

The Supreme Court refused on Tuesday to halt the execution of a Texas death row
inmate whose lawyers argue was mentally ill and unable to assist in his defense
at his murder trial.

James Colburn, 42, was convicted of killing a woman in his home in 1994 and has
been diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic. His execution is scheduled today.

Colburn's attorney, James Rytting, contends Colburn was so heavily sedated
during his trial that he slept through much of it.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              22 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 6, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 289 words


U.S. steps up patrols to stop illegal immigrants

The Coast Guard said Tuesday that it has stepped up sea and air patrols in
response to a possible increase in the flow of illegal immigrants from Haiti,
the Dominican Republic and Cuba.The increase was announced as 19 Haitians were
sent back home. They were the only ones who failed to get ashore when an
overcrowded wooden freighter carrying more than 225 Haitians ran aground in
Miami one week ago.

The other immigrants aboard the freighter, all Haitians except for three people
from the Dominican Republic, made it ashore and remain in detention. They await
asylum hearings, except for six Haitians accused of running the smuggling
operation.

GREENBELT, Md.

Muhammad is ordered detained in slayings

Sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad was ordered detained until officials decide
where he will face his first murder trial in connection with a shooting rampage
that killed 10 people in and around Washington.

Muhammad, 41, didn't speak throughout the 25-minute hearing in federal court,
where Magistrate Jillyn Schulze said she found probable cause to believe he
participated in a series of 10 murders in Maryland, Virginia and Washington.

WASHINGTON

Court won't halt execution of mentally ill man

The Supreme Court refused on Tuesday to halt the execution of a Texas death row
inmate whose lawyers argue was mentally ill and unable to assist in his defense
at his murder trial.

James Colburn, 42, was convicted of killing a woman in his home in 1994 and has
been diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic. His execution is scheduled today.

Colburn's attorney, James Rytting, contends Colburn was so heavily sedated
during his trial that he slept through much of it.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 9, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. WILL CRACK DOWN ON THOSE ENTERING ILLEGALLY BY SEA, INS SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration announced Friday that Haitians and others who attempt to
enter the United States illegally by sea will be detained and subject to an
expedited process to send them back home.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service statement says that even the
perception that rules are being relaxed could spur a mass migration that
threatens U.S. national security.

"Any message that may encourage a mass migration and detract federal resources
from our homeland defense is unacceptable," the INS statement said.

Although Justice Department officials said the move was made under existing
authority, immigration activists said it marked a change in that most Haitians
no longer will be able to go free on bond while awaiting the outcome of their
asylum cases.

"This is terribly disappointing news," said Cheryl Little, an immigration
advocate in Miami. "Our government is changing the rules so they can justify
their discriminatory treatment of Haitians."

The INS statement says that illegal migrants will be placed in expedited removal
proceedings and will probably be detained during any appeals at the discretion
of the Justice Department. This would apply to anyone arriving illegally by sea
except Cubans, who are exempted under a 1966 law.

The statement follows the Oct. 29 arrival in Key Biscayne, Fla., of 211 Haitians
and three Dominicans who waded ashore after their wooden boat ran aground.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TOP OF THE NEWS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              24 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 25, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

PERILOUS JOURNEY: MEXICAN CHILDREN BRAVE DESERT, SNAKES TO CROSS BORDER

BYLINE: Julie Watson The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 730 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, MEXICO


* Nearly 35,000 children have been arrested this year for illegally crossing the
border. Activists say the dangerous conditions are another reason a migration
accord is needed.

The giggly 12-year-old boy's feet were giving out. The gallon jugs of water he
carried in each hand banged against his tired legs. He fell four times, scraping
his knees. Cactus spines poked through his hightops and pricked his feet.

A red-and-black snake slithered by. A tarantula fluttered its long, hairy legs
atop a rock.

Luis Alberto Damian tried not to think about any of that. Instead, he would
recount later, he tried to focus on keeping up with the 19 migrants marching
ahead of him into the inky night - and on his mother, who was waiting for him at
the end of his journey.

But after 15 hours of walking through North America's harshest desert, his trip
would be in vain: Luis Alberto Damian was among nearly 35,000 children arrested
this year while illegally crossing the U.S.-Mexico border.

Activists say children like Luis Alberto drive home the urgent need for a
migration accord between Mexico and the United States. Both governments promised
this month to resume talks, sidelined since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of children cross every year - many accompanied by
strangers on the most treacherous trip of their lives. Most children, like Luis
Alberto, are headed to see parents living illegally in the United States.

Experts fear the heightened security is forcing children to embark on perilous
journeys.

"It seems the only way is crossing through the desert," said Candelaria Cruz,
coordinator of a government shelter for deported Mexican children in Nogales,
Mexico, across from Nogales, Ariz.

Since security was heightened, U.S. Border Patrol arrests have dropped to their
lowest level in more than a decade. But the death toll has varied little -
indicating that those who are crossing are taking more dangerous routes.

The Border Patrol has registered 320 deaths this year, compared with 336 last
year. That number did not include the deaths of 11 migrants whose bodies were
found locked in a grain car in Iowa in early October, less than two weeks after
the government issued its statistics.

The Border Patrol does not track individuals' ages, but the Mexican Foreign
Relations Department reports four children under 15 died this year, compared
with one last year.

"We've seen a lot of kids this year under 10 years old, like 2, 4, 6 and 7,"
said Fernando Guerrero, the Nogales shelter's night supervisor.

Luis Alberto, who suffered only scrapes and bruises, was among the lucky ones.

Some children have arrived at the shelter barefoot and so badly blistered that
the skin on the soles of their feet has peeled off, Guerrero said.

The worst case the shelter has seen was an 8-year-old boy found huddled under a
tree after wandering alone in the desert for three days, abandoned by a
smuggler.

Before the Mexican government opened the shelters along the 2,000-mile border in
1999, the U.S. Border Patrol handed all children over to local Mexican police in
border cities, who simply released them.

The shelters arrange for relatives to get the children. Still, most try to cross
again.

Luis Alberto and his 17-year-old brother crossed the border at the Tohono
O'odham Indian reservation west of Nogales and hiked into the desert with the
group. When they reached a ranch house, he said, smugglers separated the
brothers onto two trucks waiting to take them on the next leg of their journey.

Luis Alberto squeezed down on the floor behind the driver's seat.

After reaching the highway, the truck stopped amid frantic whispers. Luis
Alberto's heart pounded. Everyone scrambled. Luis Alberto huddled in a ball on
the floor and closed his eyes, hoping no one would see him.

Instead, he was the only one caught.

He spent the night on the floor of a U.S. immigration detention center. The next
morning, U.S. Border Patrol agents handed him to Mexican police in Nogales, who
took him to the shelter.

From there, he called his mother, an illegal immigrant in Atlanta.

"Yeah, I'm OK," he said, laughing nervously. "I love you, too."

Asked what his mother told him, the boy said: "She told me not to worry. She
talked to the smuggler, and I can try again."

"Now I have to go wash my shoes and pull out all the spines."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD FOCUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Luis Alberto Damian (right), 12,
waits for news from his family at a shelter in Nogales, Mexico, last month. He
was arrested while crossing illegally into the United States and was deported.

TYPE: PROFILE; ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION; MEXICO BORDER; CHILDREN

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              25 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 7, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

DEADLY CRASHES DOT IMMIGRANTS' HIGHWAY TO HAVEN/ INTERSTATE 80 IS GROWING IN
DANGER AND POPULARITY AS SMUGGLING CORRIDOR

BYLINE: Kirsten Scharnberg/ Chicago Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1299 words

DATELINE: PERRY, IOWA


They gathered in the nave of St. Patrick's Church after Saturday evening Mass,
more than a dozen illegal immigrants telling stories that were shockingly the
same.

"We were crammed into the trunk of a car," said one man, not a trace of
bitterness or self-pity in his voice.

"There were 16 of us filling one minivan," said another.

"I can't remember exactly how many there were in my group," offered a third,
"but it was basically as many bodies as we could fit in the car. We were scared
and hot and we didn't know this big road we were on."

The headlight-dotted road the men spoke about is Interstate 80, a 3,000-mile
span of concrete that stretches from California to New Jersey and increasingly
is considered one of the nation's busiest and most dange rous human smuggling
pipelines.

Just last week the roadway made headlines yet again when a truckload of illegal
Mexican immigrants crashed about 30 miles west of Des Moines. The full-sized
Chevy Silverado pickup was twisted into a ball of steel no bigge r than a
compact car. All nine people on board were killed instantly.

The sad story - still unfolding as Iowa's medical examiner tries to find
families in Mexico to identify their dead through photographs, fingerprints and
DNA - is becoming all too familiar in Iowa, a state with an ever-growing Latino
population.

Northern route

State troopers speak of pulling over cars so crammed with illegal immigrants
that the vehicles' trunks are noticeably sagging. Immigration officials release
figures speculating that at least 1,000 illegal immigrants cross the state along
the I-80 corridor each day. And firefighters and paramedics from one side of the
state to the other tell of arriving at the scenes of grisly accidents to find
immigrants who are just as worried about being deported as they are about
surviving their grav e injuries.

"More and more, I-80 is becoming a notorious smuggler," said Estela Biesemeyer,
an Immigration and Naturalization Service investigator in Des Moines. "You may
have a van where the people are just passing through Iowa, en route to a
half-dozen different states. Then somehow they come to the attention of the
state troopers patrolling the roadway, and suddenly they're calling us to say,
'Hey, we just made a traffic stop and now we've got 20 illegals on our hands.'"

The crash Thursday killed six men and three women when the truck carrying the
immigrants crossed the median and collided with a tractor-trailer. The collision
is being called the worst traffic accident in recent Iowa history. But it was
hardly the first instance of illegal immigrants dying on the way to what they
surely had hoped would be better, more economically stable lives.

Last year, a minivan packed with 16 illegal immigrants crashed on the outskirts
of Des Moines, killing one man. Two years ago, a van carrying 11 undocumented
Mexican nationals overturned in an ice storm near the Iowa-Nebraska border,
killing a 26-year-old woman. And five years ago, in eastern Iowa, 16 immigrants
were bound for Chicago when their driver fell asleep, causing an accident that
left three dead.

"The smugglers tend to transport people along I-80 largely because it is far
enough north that they are out of the range of Border Patrol checkpoints and
agents," Biesemeyer said. "Their people may eventually be going as far south as
Florida, but they come up to I-80 to do their major east-west traveling, and the
accidents are inevitable because the drivers are tired or unfamiliar with speed
limits or other traffic laws."

Iowa's burden

This steady stream of human cargo along I-80 is taxing law enforcement officials
in Iowa, a state that did not have a single immigration agent based inside its
borders until 1997 but now has a dozen full-time agents who process the
paperwork that deports an average of almost six illegal immigrants a day. The
numbers are growing in the wake of stagnant economies throughout Mexico and
Central America, and they are staggering: Just eight years ago, 423 immigrants
were taken into custody in Iowa and Nebraska. That number skyrocketed to more
than 4,300 by last year.

"This is an increasingly busy office," Biesemeyer said, "to put it mildly."

That sentiment is echoed by Dr. Julia Goodin, the state's medical examiner. A
usually upbeat woman, the doctor sounded tired over the weekend as she tried for
the second time in less than three months to identify the bodies of illegal
immigrants who died carrying little or no official paperwork. In October,
Goodin's office had the gruesome task of trying to identify the decomposed
bodies of 11 Mexican and Central American immigrants discovered in a railroad
grain car in the tiny western Iowa community of Denison. In that case, only four
of the dead have been officially identified.

"Both have been extremely sad and difficult cases," Goodin said. "But,
unfortunately, we're getting better at navigating these kinds of situations
because we are working more and more often with the Mexican consulate, and we
know the people and procedures that go along with identifying these bodies and
getting them back to their families in their home country."

The state's lure

For all the attention the recent deaths and deportation statistics are getting
from Iowa officials, nowhere do they resonate more than among the state's
Hispanic populace, a large percentage of whom say they came to Iowa to work in
its many meat-packing plants.

"It's not that these kinds of tragedies are considered normal," said Jesus
Martinez, who lives in Perry, a town 25 miles northwest of Des Moines and 20
miles from the highway. "But they are reality."

On Saturday night, several dozen immigrants from Mexico,

Guatemala and El Salvador gathered for a Spanish-language Mass at Perry's ornate
Catholic church. It was Three Kings Day, the Hispanic celebration of the
Epiphany. The day marks the visit of the three wise men to the baby Jesus. The
Bible says the men followed a shining star to bring gold, frankincense and myrrh
to the infant.

The Rev. Kevin Cameron, who oversees the Hispanic ministry for the Roman
Catholic Church's Des Moines Diocese, based his sermon on that ancie nt journey
and the modern, peril-filled one that immigrants increasingly are taking to the
United States.

"The wise men were crossing a border just like you, searching for a different,
better reality," he said, going on to compare the light of that Biblical star to
the light of a better life that impoverished Latinos believe shines north of the
Rio Grande.

"How sad that it ended the way it did," the priest said, pacing in front of his
congregation. "How sad."

After the service, after all his parishoners had talked of their own
often-dangerous travels to the United States, Cameron stood in the wet winter
cold outside the church. The latest accident on I-80 had reminded him of one
several years ago in which three people died. On that frigid night, he had
gotten a call requesting his ministry, particularly for a 10-year-old boy who
had survived the crash but had watched the uncle he was traveling with die along
the roadside.

"No matter how frequent these accidents become, they are never something that
just becomes a usual part of your life," he said. "They break your heart every
time."

The priest still keeps a hand-written letter that the boy's family sent him from
Mexico, thanking him for helping the traumatized child and for getting him
safely to an older brother in Wisconsin.

"Those are the kinds of things that really stick with you," he said.

But then Cameron paused and recounted the memory that has lingered with him the
longest about that fiery crash.

"I had to go to the funeral home," he said, "to take pictures of the three who
died so their families in Mexico could identify them."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATIONAL FOCUS/ PRICE OF FREEDOM

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, PHOTO, MAP(2) Color Graphic / Map by POST-DISPATCH/ a) (Map of
United States)/ b) (Map shows area from Chicago to western Iowa, southern
Minnesota to St. Louis.)/ Menlo - Nine killed in collision ; (1) Color Photo by
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Workers clean up after a collision Thursday on Interstate
80 near Menlo, Iowa, about 30 miles west of Des Moines, in which nine people
died. The truck carrying illegal immigrants from Mexico crossed the median and
collided with a tractor-trailer./

TYPE: PROFILE/AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENTS/IMMIGRATION DEATHS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              26 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 26, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

KIDNAPPINGS OF IMMIGRANTS RISE AS BORDER SMUGGLING TURNS VIOLENT;
 LUCRATIVE CRIME IS OFTEN EASY TO GET AWAY WITH

BYLINE: Jacques Billeaud The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Illegal immigrants who hire smugglers to bring them across the Mexican border
into Arizona are getting mixed up in an underworld more violent and cold-blooded
than ever.

Law enforcement authorities say an increasing number of smugglers are holding
immigrants hostage in the United States until they or their families pay up.
Rival gangs of criminals are stealing the immigrants away from the smugglers and
holding them for ransom. And criminals are kidnapping illegals already settled
in Arizona, confident the victims will probably not go to the authorities for
fear of being deported.

More than 150 miles from the border, Phoenix is reporting more immigrant
kidnappings - three to five every month - than the border cities of San Diego
and El Paso, Texas.

"It's happening a lot because it's easy to get away with," said Rob Hawkins, a
detective in suburban Glendale.

Authorities say border smuggling is so dangerous now because it is so lucrative.

In part because of the tighter, post-Sept. 11 security along the border,
smugglers are now charging more than $1,200 per person for a trip that cost $400
five years ago.

And the "coyotes," as the smugglers are known, have changed over the past
decade. Investigators believe the big money has attracted violent drug
smugglers, said Russell Ahr, an Immigration and Naturalization Service
spokesman.

"It wasn't that way 10 years ago," Phoenix police Detective Tony Morales said.
"It was kind of a quiet, unnoticed crime. They'd smuggle them into the country,
and that would be the end of it. You wouldn't get the kidnappings and ransoms."

Tightened patrols in California and Texas in recent years have pushed more
illegal immigrants toward Arizona, making it the hottest illegal entry point
along the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, immigration officials said.

Researchers and federal officials say it is impossible to estimate how many
illegal immigrants successfully slip into the United States. But Arizona ranked
first among the four Southwestern states in the number of arrests of illegal
immigrants, with 376,000 last year.

Years ago, immigrant smugglers were like small businesses, focusing mostly on
getting their customers across the border and perhaps helping them hop trains.
Today, many smugglers use a network of drivers and guides who specialize on
segments of the route, use cellular phones and arrange air and bus
transportation to jobs across the country. Some operations even use computers.

Kidnapping-extortion represents yet another danger for immigrants cro ssing the
Arizona desert, where more than 145 died of heat exposure, accidents and other
causes last year.

In late 2001, Phoenix police found 17 illegal immigrants in a room with bars
over the windows, doors locked from the outside and a surveillance ca mera.
Several had been kidnapped from the desert just a day earlier. A few had been
there for 28 days with little to eat because they could not come up with the
$3,500 needed to secure their freedom.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              27 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 18, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

NEW LAW-ENFORCEMENT UNIT BOLSTERS WORK OF COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT;
 SQUAD NABS 10 ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Susan Weich Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


After only two shifts, a newly formed squad of the St. Charles County Sheriff's
Department is already making an impact.

An officer with the directed patrol unit pulled over a rented minivan Thursday
morning on Interstate 70, near Highway Z, and discovered 10 illegal immigrants
inside. He also found an envelope containing 24 blank Social Security cards and
25 blank resident alien cards.

The aliens were turned over to agents with the Immigration and Naturalization
Services.

Sheriff Tim Swope said the unit had two full-time officers and two part-time
officers who would concentrate on patrolling areas that have been recent targets
of crime, as well as answering traffic complaints.

He said the arrests of the aliens were the type of arrests that would not happen
without the new approach.

"There is a terrible problem with illegal aliens in this country," he said. "And
especially with all the concerns about terrorism, these types of stops are
important."

Swope said the officers would alternate between wearing plain clothes and their
uniforms and would eventually drive unmarked cars for their patrols.

The full-time officers on the squad are John Johnson and Jeff Ochs. Part-timers
are Tom Melton and Tony Hojsik. Lt. Tom Koch heads the unit.

"They're real go-getters," Swope said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Susan Weich:; E-mail: sweich@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
636-255-7210

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              28 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 20, 2003 Thursday Five Star Edition

WAR DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; War Digest Column; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 425 words


WASHINGTON

Order gives marshals, FBI new arrest powers

Attorney General John Ashcroft has signed an order giving FBI agents and U.S.
marshals authority to arrest people on immigration violations, a power that
initially will be used to detain several dozen Iraqis suspected of posing a
wartime threat.

The order took effect Feb. 28, the last day that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and its enforcement laws fell under Justice Department
jurisdiction. The INS ceased to exist the next day, when it was folded into the
Homeland Security Department.

Ashcroft's decision, confirmed Wednesday by two law enforcement officials who
spoke on the condition of anonymity, gives more than 11,000 FBI agents and
several thousand marshals arrest powers that had been reserved only for INS
agents, some customs agents and 35 police officers in South Florida under a
program promoted by Ashcroft.

IRAQ

Kurds seek "partnership" with U.S. over oil fields

Iraqi Kurdish forces will permit temporary U.S. control of key northern oil
fields but demand a "partnership" with Washington in the areas if Iraqi leader
Saddam Hussein falls, a top Kurdish political leader said Wednesday.

The future of the oil areas in Kirkuk and Mosul - now under Baghdad's control -
is one of the highest priorities for Kurds in the Western-protected enclave.
Iraqi Kurds consider the areas part of their traditional territory and within
the borders of a possible Kurdish zone in a post-Saddam leadership.

Long-term U.S. control of the areas could become a point of contention between
Washington and Iraqi Kurds, who have played a key role in the anti-Saddam
opposition.

BELLEVILLE

16 reservists are mobilized from transportation unit

Sixteen members of the Army Reserve's 243rd Transportation Detachment in
Belleville have been mobilized for active duty. They will move to Fort Hood,
Texas, this weekend to undergo refresher training. The unit's final destination
is being withheld.

The Pentagon included the 243rd in Wednesday's weekly roster of mobilized
reserve and National Guard units. Nationally, 212,617 National Guard and Reserve
members had been called up for full-time duty as of Wednesday. That's an
increase of 24,025 from the week before.

A breakdown by The Associated Press shows that Missouri has contributed 4,149 of
the total, while Illinois has contributed 5,259. The figures for the two states
omit the Coast Guard Reserve, which has no state-by-state breakdown. Nationally,
3,636 members of the Coast Guard Reserve are on active duty.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA AT WAR

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 6, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

ANTI-IMMIGRANT GROUP STAGES PROTEST ON CINCO DE MAYO

BYLINE: Jeremy Kohler Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 301 words


Illegal aliens should be sent home, the United States should guard its southern
border, and a freeze should be placed on immigration, 30 demonstrators said
Monday night outside the West County shopping center.

Members of the Council of Conservative Citizens said they were educating
motorists on Manchester Road about how the world exploits loose U.S. borders to
the detriment of Americans. Cinco de Mayo, a Mexican holiday, offered the group
an excuse to put its cross hairs on illegal Mexicans, members said.

"Our open border with Mexico has become a conduit for drugs and unskilled
workers who take jobs (for less pay) and force incomes to ratchet downward,"
said organizer Earl Holt of St. Louis, who wore a sombrero.

The difference between the immigration of a century ago and that of today is
that previous waves brought Europeans "with whom we share a common cultural
ethos, rather than the dregs of the Third World who have turned their own
countries into cesspools and will do that to our country if we let them," Holt
said.

Demonstrators held signs that said: "Deport All Illegals," "Taliban (Loves) Open
Borders" and "Now Swim Back." They lamented what they view as immigrants' high
birth rates, their drain on the U.S. economy, and their dilution of white,
Christian culture. "Gutless politicians" don't do anything to stem immigration
because they're afraid of retribution from the liberal media, Holt said.

The demonstration, which stretched about 50 yards down Manchester just east of
Interstate 270, drew some curious stares, a few honks, and a few razzes.

Richard Rodgers, of Maplewood, said, "Immigrants are destroying my culture and
changing my country. We need a moratorium until we can digest the masses we've
got. What we've got isn't immigration. It's an invasion."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              30 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 13, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

2 FORMER TYSON MANAGERS WHO PLEADED GUILTY GET PROBATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E8

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, TENN.


Two former Tyson Foods managers who pleaded guilty to conspiring to hire illegal
immigrants were given a year's probation Monday after cooperating with
prosecutors in their case against the poultry giant.

The sentencing closed the book on a three-year undercover investigation and a
six-week trial that ended March 26 with a jury acquitting Tyson and three
managers.

U.S. District Judge R. Allan Edgar said he accepted a recommendation from
prosecutors for leniency in sentencing Spencer Mabe, 52, and Truley Ponder, 59,
former managers at a Tyson poultry complex in Shelbyville.

Ponder was also fined $3,000 and Mabe $2,000.

They could have gotten five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Mabe and Ponder testified for the government that recruiting and hiring illegal
immigrant workers was no secret to the chain of command at the Springdale
Ark.-based company. Some jurors said afterward they did not believe the
testimony.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              31 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 15, 2003 Thursday Five Star Edition

TEXAS AUTHORITIES OPEN TRAILER CARRYING IMMIGRANTS AND FIND 17 OF THEM DEAD;
SMUGGLERS LEFT TRAILER

BYLINE: T.A. Badger The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, TEXAS


Authorities opened up on Wednesday a sweltering trailer that had been abandoned
at a South Texas truck stop. Inside, they found more than 100 illegal immigrants
- 17 of them dead.

An 18th victim died later at a hospital.

The men, women and children were so desperate for air that they had tried to
claw through insulation on the door.

At least one placed a desperate call to police late Tuesday, saying people were
suffocating and pleading with a dispatcher for help.

When sheriff's deputies opened the trailer about 2 a.m., "a flood of human
beings" spilled out, U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby said. Many ran off, but others
were too weak to go far.

Thirteen bodies were found inside the trailer, and four more on the ground just
outside. Among the dead was a boy, 5 or 6 years old.

Authorities said one of three suspects in the smuggling was arrested Wednesday
in the Houston area, about 115 miles northeast of Victoria. They identified him
as Tyrone Williams of Schenectady, N.Y.

The trailer is registered in Williams' name, Shelby said. Authorities were
looking for two more suspects whose names were withheld.

The smugglers apparently unhitched the trailer at the truck stop near Victoria,
about 175 miles from the Mexican border, and drove off.

Someone inside placed a phone call to authorities pleading for help. The 911
call to police in Kingsville, 100 miles south of Victoria, came in just before
midnight Tuesday from a Spanish speaker on a cellular phone, with lots of
background noise.

Police Chief Sam Granato said the dispatcher had passed the call to someone who
spoke Spanish. Then the call was cut off, and the number couldn't be traced. But
after listening to a digital recording, Granato said police had been able to
hear the man saying that people were asphyxiating.

Granato said someone traveling on U.S. Highway 77 had called police to report a
hand waving a bandanna out of a hole in the back of a white 18-wheeler with New
York plates. Granato said when a teletype came in from Victoria about the white
18-wheeler, dispatchers connected the calls.

The undersecretary for border and transportation security at the Homeland
Security Department said the federal agency would help catch those involved.
"This grim discovery is a horrific reminder of the callous disregard smugglers
have for their human cargo," said the undersecretary, Asa Hutchinson.

Most of the immigrants are from Mexico, though some are from El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras, said Marco Nunez, a spokesman for the Mexican consulate
in Houston.

Six men, ages 20 to 47, were hospitalized with heat-related injuries, one of
them in critical condition.

The survivors were being treated at area hospitals, and 40 were staying at a
temporary shelter.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Page 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP, GRAPHIC(GRAPHICS)
(2) Graphic / Map - Victoria Texas - Seventeen found dead in abandoned trailer;
another person died at a hospital. ; (1) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS -
Officials investigate a trailer where 17 illegal immigrants were found dead
early Wednesday in Victoria, Texas. The trailer had contained more than 100
illegal immigrants, authorities said.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              32 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 18, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANT DEATHS POINT TO SMUGGLING CONSPIRACY, U.S. BELIEVES;
INVESTIGATORS ARE LOOKING TO FLUSH OUT RING MEMBERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Investigators believe a smuggling operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died
after being packed into a sweltering trailer with dozens of other people is part
of a larger organization, a federal prosecutor said.

Only one person has been arrested, a truck driver from Schenectady, N.Y.

Authorities believe the "transportation cell" at the heart of the smuggling case
is part of a conspiracy to bring illegal immigrants across the border with
promises of jobs, said U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby of Houston.

"We are continuing to try to identify all of the different conspirators that are
involved in both gathering the individuals from Central America and Mexico and
then smuggling them across the border," Shelby said. "We are viewing this as an
organized criminal act, and we are going to prosecute the entire organization."

Shelby said Attorney General John Ashcroft had "expressed his keen interest in
the case," asking for daily updates and saying the "highest levels" of the
Justice Department were interested in the prosecution.

Officials said 70 to 100 people had been packed into the trailer, which was
found abandoned Wednesday at a truck stop south of Victoria, Texas, more than
100 miles southwest of Houston.

Deputies found 17 bodies inside, and two more people died later. Initial autopsy
reports showed that the victims died from dehydration, hypothermia and
suffocation.

Five people removed from the truck remained hospitalized Saturday, said Marco
Nunez, press officer for Mexico's consul general in Houston. He said more than
40 other survivors - from Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador - were being held by
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Authorities said an additional 30 to 50 illegal immigrants were believed to have
fled the trailer.

Shelby commented about the wider investigation Friday when truck driver, Tyrone
Williams, 32, appeared before a U.S. magistrate in Houston on charges of
conspiracy to smuggle, transport and conceal illegal immigrants.

Williams' attorney, Craig Washington, said he would argue at a hearing Tuesday
that his client was not a flight risk and should be freed on bail. Williams
could face up to life in prison if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              33 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 18, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. THINKS SMUGGLING DEATHS INVOLVED LARGE RING;
POLICE COULDN'T TRACE CELL CALLS FROM THOSE TRAPPED IN TRUCK, PAPER SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Investigators believe a smuggling operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died
after being packed into a sweltering trailer with dozens of other people is part
of a larger organization, a federal prosecutor said.

Also Saturday, a newspaper quoted police as saying they received at least three
cell phone calls apparently made from the trailer but were unable to act on
them, largely because many service providers lack equipment to trace wireless
calls.

One person has been arrested in the case, a truck driver from Schenectady, N.Y.

Authorities believe the "transportation cell" at the heart of the smuggling case
is part of a conspiracy to bring illegal immigrants across the border with
promises of jobs, said U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby of Houston. "We are viewing
this as an organized criminal act and we are going to prosecute the entire
organization," Shelby said.

Officials said 70 to 100 people had been packed into the trailer, which was
found abandoned Wednesday at a truck stop south of Victoria, Texas.

Deputies found 17 bodies inside and two more died later. Authorities said an
additional 30 to 50 illegal immigrants were believed to have fled from the
trailer.

Shelby said Attorney General John Ashcroft had "expressed his keen interest in
the case," asking for daily updates.

The Fort Worth Star-Telegram report about the cell phone calls also said
officials are investigating whether a police dispatcher mishandled a call from a
motorist who reported seeing a hand waving a bandanna from a ho le near the
trailer's taillights.

Kingsville Police Chief Sam Granato told the paper that the dispatcher, who was
not identified, did not alert police to the call, which was made about midnight
Tuesday. She has been suspended with pay.

Five people removed from the truck remained hospitalized Saturday, and more than
40 other survivors - from Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador - were being held by
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said.

Elsewhere, authorities in the Houston suburb of Sugar Land found 10 illegal
immigrants hidden under a sheet of plywood in the back of a pickup truck Friday.
Police said the men had not eaten or had any water for two days.

And the Border Patrol said it rescued 17 suspected immigrants from a s weltering
railroad container car Thursday near the Texas-New Mexico state line.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              34 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 19, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 608 words


HOUSTON

Hundreds mourn deaths of illegal immigrants

More than 400 people Sunday mourned the 19 illegal immigrants who died while
trapped in a stifling trailer during a smuggling operation.

"We want to pray for people's rights to be respected, for justice to be served
and cooperation of governments to ensure these things don't happen," said Bishop
Joe Vazquez, who celebrated the Mass for the victims.

Jeannette Morales, the 18-year-old widow of Juan Jose Morales, said she last
spoke to her 23-year-old husband five days before he was found dead.

"He just told me he was going to come home, and happy Mother's Day," the Houston
woman said as a tear rolled down her right cheek.

Juan Morales was among 70 to 100 illegal immigrants in the trailer, which had
been abandoned at a truck stop near Victoria, more than 100 miles southeast of
Houston.

CAMARILLO, Calif.

Gasoline prices fall, nationwide survey says

U.S. average retail gasoline prices fell over the past two weeks in response to
lower crude oil prices, but the pace of the decline has slowed, according to a
nationwide survey on Sunday.

The national average for self-serve regular unleaded gasoline fell 2.29 cents to
$1.5236 between May 2 and May 16, according to the Lundberg survey of 8,000
gasoline stations.

"The price decline is due to recently lower crude oil prices, but in the most
recent days, crude prices are up," said Trilby Lundberg, editor of the survey.
"The bombings in Saudi Arabia surely contributed to the nervousness."

NEW YORK

Time Inc. says it plans to revive Life magazine

Time Inc. confirmed on Friday that it will attempt to revive Life magazine,
storied for its photojournalism, as a Sunday newspaper supplement.

Life was first published as a weekly in 1936 and had a long run until its
general-interest approach, and large-size format, were overwhelmed by television
and punishing industry economics. It closed in 1972, was recast as a monthly in
1978, went weekly during the first Persian Gulf War, and then closed again in
2000.

NEW YORK

"Les Miserables" ends Broadway run at 16 years

The cast of "Les Miserables" bid au revoir to Broadway on Sunday night after a
16-year run and more than $410 million in ticket sales.

Even before the curtain came down on the 6,680th and final performance, an
audience of 1,400 at the Imperial Theater cheered and applauded wildly through
all the show-stopping numbers.

Based on Victor Hugo's 1861 novel, "Les Miserables" opened at the Imperial on
March 12, 1987, and became the second-longest-running show on Broadway after
"Cats."

The play was to have ended in March, but a resurgence in interest delayed its
last performance. In its final seven days in New York, "Les Miserables" grossed
$853,505, filling nearly 96 percent of its seats.

One person paid $18,750 for a single ticket on eBay, while a pair of tickets
went for $20,000 on the Internet auction site.

But for those who missed its New York run, "Les Miz" is still being performed in
theaters around the world.

BALTIMORE

Student wins thousands as part of literary prize

Like thousands of other college seniors, Laura Walter, 22, graduated from
Washington College on Sunday. But in addition to her degree, she took home
$61,133 as the winner of the school's undergraduate literary prize.

She submitted a novel and eight poems to win the Sophie Kerr Prize at the small
liberal arts college in Chestertown, on Maryland's Eastern Shore.

This year, 27 seniors submitted works to be considered by a panel of Washington
College English professors.

The award is named for Sophie Kerr, a native of the area.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              35 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 19, 2003 Monday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 594 words


HOUSTON

Hundreds mourn deaths of illegal immigrants

More than 400 people Sunday mourned the 19 illegal immigrants who died while
trapped in a stifling trailer during a smuggling operation.

"We want to pray for people's rights to be respected, for justice to be served
and cooperation of governments to ensure these things don't happen," said Bishop
Joe Vazquez, who celebrated the Mass for the victims.

Jeannette Morales, the 18-year-old widow of Juan Jose Morales, said she last
spoke to her 23-year-old husband five days before he was found dead.

"He just told me he was going to come home, and happy Mother's Day," the Houston
woman said as a tear rolled down her right cheek.

Juan Morales was among 70 to 100 illegal immigrants in the trailer, which had
been abandoned at a truck stop near Victoria, more than 100 miles southeast of
Houston.

CAMARILLO, Calif.

Gasoline prices fall, nationwide survey says

U.S. average retail gasoline prices fell over the past two weeks in response to
lower crude oil prices, but the pace of the decline has slowed, according to a
nationwide survey on Sunday.

The national average for self-serve regular unleaded gasoline fell 2.29 cents to
$1.5236 between May 2 and May 16, according to the Lundberg survey of 8,000
gasoline stations.

"The price decline is due to recently lower crude oil prices, but in the most
recent days, crude prices are up," said Trilby Lundberg, editor of the survey.
"The bombings in Saudi Arabia surely contributed to the nervousness."

NEW YORK

Time Inc. says it plans to revive Life magazine

Time Inc. confirmed on Friday that it will attempt to revive Life magazine,
storied for its photojournalism, as a Sunday newspaper supplement.

Life was first published as a weekly in 1936 and had a long run until its
general-interest approach, and large-size format, were overwhelmed by television
and punishing industry economics. It closed in 1972, was recast as a monthly in
1978, went weekly during the first Persian Gulf War, and then closed again in
2000.

GROSSE POINTE PARK, Mich.

Fishing boat capsizes; two are believed dead

A small, overloaded fishing boat with five people aboard capsized Sunday morning
in the choppy, chilly waters of the Detroit River. Two people were believed to
have died, the U.S. Coast Guard said.

The 12-foot aluminum rowboat was a few feet off shore from Windmill Point Park
in this northern Detroit suburb when it began taking on water, Petty Officer 1st
Class Ray Mahannah said. The boat flipped when the passengers began shifting
positions, he said.

Other boaters managed to rescue three people from the sinking boat, but were
unable to find a 24-year-old man and a 10-year-old boy. Paramedics treated a
7-year-old and two adults at the scene for hypothermia.

Rescuers continued to search for the missing boaters Sunday evening, but
Mahannah said anyone in the 55-degree water probably would have died of
hypothermia within two hours.

BALTIMORE

Student wins thousands as part of literary prize

Like thousands of other college seniors, Laura Walter, 22, graduated from
Washington College on Sunday. But in addition to her degree, she took home
$61,133 as the winner of the school's undergraduate literary prize.

She submitted a novel and eight poems to win the Sophie Kerr Prize at the small
liberal arts college in Chestertown, on Maryland's Eastern Shore.

This year, 27 seniors submitted works to be considered by a panel of Washington
College English professors.

The award is named for Sophie Kerr, a native of the area.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              36 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 20, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

DYING TO BE FREE

BYLINE: Angela M. Kelley

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 503 words


IMMIGRATION

* The people in that Texas truck were, like generations of immigrants before
them, coming to build a better life for themselves and their families.

As the daughter of two immigrants and the mother of two small girls, I can
scarcely imagine a more gruesome story or more horrifying image than the deaths
of at least 18 smuggled migrants from Latin America in the back of a
tractor-trailer in Texas last week. Unfortunately, the discovery of dead
immigrant bodies is happening with shocking regularity.

Two people drowned in the Rio Grande last week. Eleven bodies were found in a
boxcar in Iowa last fall. And hundreds perish in the Arizona desert each summer.
We now witness an average of one dead migrant per day along the U.S.-Mexico
border, and the most recent Texas tragedy presages another deadly summer ahead.

Over the years, our approach to unauthorized immigration and smuggling has been
to add more border guards and more detection technology. At the same time, we
have instituted more restrictive immigration policies to make legal immigration
more difficult.

However, during this period, the number of undocumented immigrants in the
country and the numbers of those dying in an attempt to join us have gone up,
not down. The people in that Texas truck were, like generations of immigrants
before them, coming to build a better life for themselves and their families.
But our policies have created a black market for smuggling, forged documents,
and easily exploitable labor -- literally a multimillion-dollar industry that is
circumventing our attempts to reduce unauthorized migration.

Rather than attempting to repress the flow of people seeking work and o
pportunity, we should manage the process more intelligently. For that we need a
new approach. We not only need to enforce our laws, we need new laws that are
enforceable.

It seems counter-intuitive at first, but the best way to get control of our
immigration system is to make it easier for people to come legally, work
above-board, and participate fully in society, rather than hide in the shadows.
We need to expand legal channels so that more of the immigration that happens
occurs within the law.

Wouldn't it be better if immigrants came with a visa, not a smuggler? With a
background check, not forged papers? With dignity, not clandestinely?

Until we develop a smart-borders approach to matching the flow of people allowed
to come legally with our nation's economic needs, we will get more of the same:
unauthorized immigration, unscrupulous employers, dead immigrants and rich
smugglers.

With a more orderly and legal system, we could target resources on both sides of
the border to track and keep out the real threats -- terrorists and drugs --
while reducing the danger for people seeking jobs and opportunity. It would add
common sense to a thoroughly chaotic immigration system and enhance domestic
security. People are dying while we dawdle and while we avoid the difficult
issue of immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY; A FORUM FOR OTHER VOICES, IDEAS AND OPINIONS; Angela M.
Kelley is the Deputy Director of the National Immigration Forum, a non-profit
advocacy organization that supports immigrants and immigration in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; JAMES NIELSEN/AFP PHOTO - Members of the Victoria Fire
Department transfer bodies of 18 illegal aliens from the trailer they died in
while being smuggled into the U.S. in a refrigerated trailer in Victoria, Texas,
on May 14.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 25, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

MIGRANTS' DEATHS WON'T DETER SOME FROM TREK;
JOBS ARE KEY TO FLOW OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: POZOS, MEXICO


Family and friends on Friday began burying migrants who died after smugglers
locked them in an airless semitrailer, a tragedy that has Mexicans once again
questioning why so many people risk their lives to work in the United States.

For many, the answer is clear: they have hungry families and few options in
Mexico, while jobs in the United States can provide food, clothing and luxuries
like washing machines and television sets.

"There is no resentment. The United States has always at least given us
something," said Joaquin Rico Sanchez, whose brother-in-law Sarafin Rivera died
in the trailer. "I'd go tomorrow if they gave me a visa. But I'd no longer go as
an illegal immigrant."

Government officials have pledged to crack down on smugglers, but the tradition
of heading north and the complex human trafficking network - which stretches
from tiny Mexican towns to cities like New York and Chicago - is difficult to
overcome.

In the central Mexican town of Pozos - which lost three residents to the truck
incident - traffickers come trolling for prospects, packing them and others from
nearby towns into private buses and running three or four trips to the border a
day. Some even allow migrants to work off the cost of their passage once they
reach the United States.

"Many, many people here have gone north in trailers," said Sigifredo Ramirez,
50. "Sure, they cut off the air when you pass U.S. immigration, but then they
open it back up."

Traffickers often temporarily seal the trailers as they cross the border to
avoid raising suspicion, but they usually reopen the air ducts after getting
back on the highway.

Nineteen were found dead inside the trailer that was discovered at a truck stop
outside Victoria, Texas, on May 14, hours after smugglers helped the illegal
migrants across the border, then locked them in the trailer.

It was not an isolated tragedy. Last fall, officials found the mummified remains
of 11 people who had been in a grain car for at least four months, and there are
nearly daily reports of deaths in the Arizona desert - a popular crossing spot
because the isolated region is difficult to patrol.

Those crossing are usually men of working age - like brothers, Roberto and
Sarafin Rivera and their neighbor, Hector Ramirez, who were being buried Friday
in Pozos, 180 miles north of Mexico City.

All three were heading to a Florida tomato packing plant, where they could make
nearly 10 times the local daily wage of $7 a day.

But they and dozens of other migrants were instead trapped inside a trailer,
creating a frantic search for air. The bodies of the three men from Pozos,
surrounded by candles and flowers, were laid out in the courtyards of the humble
homes they left before burial.

Sigifredo Ramirez, who attended his cousin's wake, said he doubted the deaths
would change attitudes about illegal immigration.

"I think this may make people think twice, but it won't stop people going
north," he said.

The truck's driver has been arrested along with several other suspects, and
migration officials in the United States are holding dozens of survivors.

At least 13 of the 19 victims have been identified as Mexican nationals. The
rest are either unidentified or from Central America.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Relatives mourn Friday at the
funeral for Sarafin and Roberto Rivera, who died May 14 in a locked semitrailer
in south Texas as they tried to sneak into the United States. Nineteen people
died in the incident.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              38 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 3, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

INTERNAL REPORT CRITICIZES TREATMENT OF ALIENS DETAINED AFTER SEPT. 11;
INQUIRY AT JUSTICE DETAILS ABUSE

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department's independent internal investigator found "significant
problems" with the way the department treated aliens detained on immigration
violations in the Sept. 11 terrorism investigation, a report released Monday
shows.

"While our review recognized the enormous challenges and difficult circumstances
confronting the department in responding to the terrorist attacks, we found
significant problems in the way the detainees were handled," said Inspector
General Glenn Fine.

Fine can launch internal investigations without the consent of department
leaders, including Attorney General John Ashcroft.

Fine's report focused on the 762 people detained in the investigation and held
on immigration violations -- 197 who were released on bond and more than 500 of
whom have been deported.

Four aliens charged with immigration violations are still being held in relation
to the Sept. 11 investigation. Others were charged criminally. Only one of the
762 -- Zacarias Moussaoui -- has been charged with a terrorist crime. Moussaoui
was detained on immigration charges a month before the attacks when he raised
suspicions of a flight instructor.

After the hijacking attacks on New York and the Pentagon, the FBI-led
investigation relied heavily on the strategy of detaining undocumented aliens to
prevent further attacks.

But in the chaos of the largest criminal investigation in the nation's history,
that delay-plagued sorting process led to detainees being held for months. The
239-page report meted out most of its criticism to the three agencies most
closely involved with the alien detainees:

* The FBI, which the report said took too much time - 80 days on average - to
complete background checks on the detainees to determine whether they had ties
to terrorism. The report said the FBI failed to make a priority of quickly
completing the security checks - and failed to assign enough people to achieve
that end.

* The Bureau of Prisons, whose officials in a federal facility in Brooklyn
established a "pattern of physical and verbal abuse" of detainees. Among the
abuses cited were cells illuminated 24 hours a day and inconsistent access to
telephone calls - and, as a result, delays in speaking to and hiring lawyers or
contacting family members.

* The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which had a policy of notifying
detainees of the immigration violations they faced within 72 hours of their
arrest. In the case of the Sept. 11 detainees, immigration officials kept
detainees in the dark about those violations - in some cases for as long as a
month after their arrest, the report said.

"Use all legal tools"

Justice Department spokeswoman Barbara Comstock said she welcomes the report and
its 21 recommendations for change, but she noted that the review did not
question the legality of the agencies' actions after the attacks.

"Our policy is to use all legal tools available to protect innocent Americans
from further terrorist attacks. We make no apologies for finding every legal way
possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks."

But one federal law enforcement official, whom the Justice Department would not
allow to be identified, said, "I'd be more than willing to step up and say, 'We
in the FBI made mistakes.'"

Most of the problems cited in the report came from the New York area, where 64
percent of the Sept. 11 detainees were arrested. As a result, most of the
detainees were held at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn and at
local facilities under contract with the INS, such as Passaic County Jail in
Paterson, N.J.

At the FBI's New York field office, the policy of deciding who fit the Sept. 11
detainee criteria was quite broad, according to the study:

"If . . . agents searching for a particular person on a (Sept. 11 investigation)
lead arrived at a location and found a dozen individuals out of immigration
status, each of them were considered to be arrested in connection with the
investigation," the report said, quoting an interview with a supervisory special
agent in the New York field office.

In full prevention mode, the Justice Department issued an unwritten "hold until
cleared" policy, eliminating bond as an option for what in normal times would
have been minor immigration violations. But the report noted that there was much
dissension among the agencies' lawyers over the policy when the detentions
stretched into weeks and months.

INS lawyers were particularly concerned with regulations that required a
detainee to be deported within 90 days of a final deportation order. But the
"hold until cleared" policy - coupled with FBI clearance checks that were taking
months to complete - were running contrary to INS' 90-day policies.

Criticism is called unfair

The report said the INS repeatedly contacted Justice Department officials to
raise concerns about the apparent conflict, although officials in the Justice
Department said they did not recall those conversations. The issue was not
resolved until January 2002 - when the "hold until cleared" policy was dropped,
and a legal opinion was issued that said Ashcroft had the discretion to hold
detainees past the 90 days.

In a written response to the inspector general, Deputy Attorney General Larry
Thompson said: "It is unfair to criticize the conduct of members of my staff
during this period. In light of the imperative placed on these detentions by the
department, I would not have expected them to reconsider the detention policy in
the absence of a clear warning that the law was being violated. ...When the
issue was squarely presented, it is apparent that they promptly did the right
thing: They changed the policy."

The report recommends 21 steps that should be taken by the Justice Department
and the Homeland Security Department - now home to immigration functions. Among
them are requirements that a department, when setting new policies to address a
national emergency, should quickly assess the legality of those policies.

Comstock, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said the department has already
taken steps on a handful of recommendations. The report suggests that the
department and the FBI have "clear and more objective criteria" to classify a
mass group of illegal aliens as part of a criminal investigation. Comstock said
the deputy attorney general now must sign off on any new addition to aliens
deemed to be of "special interest" to the Sept. 11 investigation.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              39 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     July 21, 2003 Monday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 695 words


AUSTIN, Texas

29 immigrants are found; 3 "enforcers" are charged

Three men faced charges of transporting and harboring illegal immigrants after
authorities found 29 immigrants crammed into a house.

The immigrants, most from Honduras and Mexico, told police that the men were
"enforcers" who were holding them until relatives or friends paid the cost of
bringing them across the border, the U.S. attorney's office said Saturday.

Immigrants told officers they had agreed to pay $1,500 to $1,800 each.

Erik Angeles-Mendoza, 21, Daniel Angeles-Mendoza, 22, and Felipe Ceron-Espinoza,
20, were in federal custody pending a bail hearing July 31.

Officers went to the home Thursday following a call from a Honduran man who said
his wife was being held there, prosecutors said.

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.

Body is found; sex offender is charged with murder

A registered sex offender was charged with murder after police discovered a body
in a theater where a missing girl was last seen, police said Sunday.

Dominic Akers, 22, was arrested Saturday after police found the body on the
second floor of the Sunshine Theatre, Lt. Bob Huntsman said.

Authorities were not releasing the identity of the body until an autopsy was
completed today, but the family of Marissa Mathy-Zvaifler had been notified,
Huntsman said.

The 16-year-old from Santa Fe was reported missing by family and friends after
she went to Albuquerque with friends to see the hip-hop act Atmosphere at the
theater Wednesday night, police said.

Police said Akers is a registered sex offender. A source close to the
investigation, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Akers worked at the
theater.

MIAMI

As tropical storm weakens, another one is brewing

As Tropical Storm Danny weakened further in the upper Atlantic on Sunday,
forecasters were keeping an eye on a weather system near the Caribbean that
could strengthen into a tropical storm.

Danny became a hurricane Friday, weakened into a tropical storm Saturday and
weakened further into a tropical depression Sunday. Late Sunday afternoon, Danny
was about 240 miles west-northwest of the Azores. It was moving toward the
southeast at about 12 mph.

A tropical depression hovering east of the Lesser Antilles could develop into a
tropical storm late Sunday, hurricane specialists said. It would be named
Tropical Storm Erika if it continued to strengthen.

COLLEGE STATION, Texas

Construction begins on memorial for students

Families and friends of the 12 Texas A&M University students killed in the 1999
collapse of a massive stack of logs broke ground for a memorial over the
weekend.

Construction on the $5 million memorial - at the spot where a traditional
bonfire's center pole once stood - is set to begin in fall.

"We will have etched a place in the landscape of our campus, just as they have
permanently etched a place in our hearts," student body President Matt Josefy
told about 100 people gathered for the groundbreaking Saturday.

The bonfire, a wedding-cake like stack of more than 5,000 logs, was a Texas A&M
tradition, ignited on the eve of the school's football game against archrival
University of Texas. The stack was being assembled when it came down Nov. 18,
1999, killing 12 students and injuring 27 others.

LOS ANGELES

Soundproofing wall falls on trailer, kills woman

A 12-foot-high freeway soundproofing wall hit by a tractor-trailer collapsed on
a mobile home with five people inside, killing a woman and injuring her
5-year-old son.

Eloisa Mancina, 42, was pronounced dead at the scene after the accident
Saturday, authorities said. The boy was treated for minor injuries at a hospital
and released. The truck driver also was treated for minor injuries, authorities
said.

A Honda Civic was traveling south on Long Beach Freeway near the suburb of
Compton at about 60 mph when it lost air in its left tire, said Brian Joy, a
spokesman for the California Highway Patrol.

The driver tried to control the swerving car, but it spun out of control. A
tractor-trailer in the next lane hit the rear of the Honda and then spun off the
pavement and up an embankment, where it hit the wall, Joy said.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              40 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 28, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

BORDER PATROL AGENTS DELAY "FREEDOM RIDE"

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, TEXAS


Two buses carrying nearly 100 people making a "Freedom Ride" to bring attention
to mistreatment of undocumented immigrants were stopped for nearly four hours
Friday at a U.S. Border Patrol station.

The riders were asked to leave the buses and were questioned, said Hilda
Delgado, a spokeswoman on the buses. All were later released, and the buses were
back on the road to San Antonio around noon.

Border Patrol spokesman Mario Villarreal said the stop was routine and no
immigration violations were detected.

Delgado, who said she is a U.S. citizen from Los Angeles, wouldn't say whether
anyone on the buses was in the country illegally. She said passengers held up
Freedom Ride cards to officials who questioned them.

The cards say that the ride is peaceful, that the person exercises his or her
right to remain silent, that the person doesn't consent to a search and doesn't
give up any rights.

Nearly 100 people rallied in Los Angeles to protest the treatment of the riders
by the Border Patrol.

Delgado said the people on the bus represent 10 million undocumented immigrants
who contribute $730 million each year to the U.S. economy.

The cross-country caravan, backed by organized labor, began Sept. 20. Nearly
1,000 people were to join the ride, with 18 buses planning stops in communities
including Washington and New York.

The road trip will stop at 5:30 p.m. Sunday for a rally at Kiener Plaza in
downtown St. Louis for a rally.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             October 11, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SCHWARZENEGGER MAY FIND DRIVERS LICENSE LAW;
FOR UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS HARD TO KILL

BYLINE: Deborah Kong The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


* Repealing the measure, signed last month by Gov. Gray Davis, had been a
campaign pledge.

Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger said while campaigning in the state's recall
election that it would be a top priority in his first 100 days in office to
repeal a new law that allows undocumented immigrants to get drivers licenses.

Easier said than done, politicians and activists said Friday.

Although exit polls showed about 70 percent of voters in the election
disapproved of the law, it may be tough to wipe off the books. Gov. Gray Davis
signed the measure last month amid accusations that he was pandering to Hispanic
voters.

Republican Schwarzenegger plans to ask the Democrat-controlled state
Legislature, currently in recess, to convene a special session where a bill
would be introduced to repeal the law, said Rob Stutzman, a spokesman for his
transition team.

"This is a central issue to the governor-elect's campaign," Stutzman said. "We
believe he's been elected with a pretty clear mandate. It will be up to
Democratic legislators to determine what they'll do with this issue."

This isn't the only campaign pledge that Schwarzenegger may have trouble
keeping. He also seems likely to clash with Democratic lawmakers on his pledge
to roll back the tripling of California's car tax despite the state's financial
woes.

Schwarzenegger has raised concerns about security problems with the drivers
license law, noting that it does not require a background check. Supporters
contend that it is a public safety measure that will make the streets safer for
everyone by ensuring that all drivers know the rules of the road and can buy
insurance.

There's "no chance" that an effort to repeal the law would succeed, said state
Sen. Gil Cedillo, the Los Angeles Democrat who authored the drivers license
bill. The measure cleared the Senate, 23-15, after winning Assembly approval,
44-30.

On Friday, immigration rights advocates held a news conference pledging to fight
to ensure that the law takes effect Jan. 1.

Schwarzenegger "has probably more in common with the immigrant community than
some of the Republicans that he surrounds himself with," said Edward Headington,
spokesman for Hermandad Mexicana Latinoamericana, a Santa Ana-based advocacy
group. "We're hoping that he'll meet with members of the Latino community to
talk about this."

Stutzman acknowledged that "it's difficult to tell how the Democratic
Legislature will respond" but said Schwarzenegger would "first give the
Legislature a chance to repeal it."

"If they do not, he intends to go to the ballot," letting voters decide whether
to get rid of the law, Stutzman said.

A Republican-backed group called Save Our License already has collected about
40,000 signatures to overturn the law by placing a referendum on the ballot in
March, when the state holds its presidential primary. It must collect about
374,000 signatures by early December to do so.

Other options for reversing the law include filing a lawsuit or issuing an
executive order ordering the Department of Motor Vehicles not to carry it out.
But observers say both are unlikely and would be open to challenges.

Schwarzenegger, who came to California from Austria, said he supports
immigrants, "but we should not invite fraud or undermine law enforcement. The
federal government has expressed security concerns over this measure, and in a
time of heightened national security, we should not undermine our nation's
immigration laws."

Dan Savage, Cedillo's chief of staff, said voter opposition to the drivers
license measure may be a result of the state's economic hard times. People worry
that the law will attract more immigrants when the job market is tight.

"Immigrants are the first ones who people look at and say, 'Well it's kind of
their fault, and they're coming, and they're taking our jobs,'" he said. "In
good times ... people are more willing to say they contribute to the economy."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              42 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 10, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

17 ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE FOUND IN TRUCK AFTER COLLISION ON I-44

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 97 words


Authorities say 17 illegal immigrants were in a pickup when it collided with a
car Sunday on eastbound Interstate 44 near St. Clair.

The driver of the car was unhurt, but six passengers in the pickup were taken to
hospitals. The rest were taken to the Franklin County Sheriff's Department,
which was holding 12 people in custody Sunday night.

They will be turned over to immigration authorities.

The Missouri Highway Patrol reported that some had paid $1,500 to be smuggled
into the United States from Mexico.

The accident happened at 8:35 a.m. west of Highway 30.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              43 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            November 10, 2003 Monday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

ILLINOIS WEIGHS PLAN TO LET ILLEGAL ALIENS GET DRIVERS LICENSES/ SENATE REJECTED
PROPOSAL LAST WEEK, BUT SPONSORS VOW TO SEEK ANOTHER VOTE

BYLINE: Maura Kelly/ Of The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Javier doesn't have a drivers license, but he spends three to four hours each
day driving his pickup between his Elgin, Ill., home and construction jobs.

Javier - who would not give his last name - is a 42-year-old illegal immigrant
from Mexico who does not qualify for a license because he lacks a Social
Security number.

"But I've got a family of three kids and I've got to get money to get food for
my kids," he said. "If I had the drivers license, I can buy auto insurance and
be a good citizen of Illinois. It's going to help me be more safe on the road
and make the other people safe on the road."

Immigration advocates say Javier is one of many illegal immigrants in Illinois
who are driving despite not having a license, not passing a driving test and
having no insurance.

Whether to let illegal immigrants obtain licenses has become part of the
country's debate over immigration and national security, with politicians in
several states wrestling with the issue.

In Illinois, the Senate narrowly rejected a proposal allowing licenses for
illegal immigrants last week, but sponsors vow to bring it back for another
vote.

In California, Republican Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger said a top priority
would be repeal of a similar new law, signed by Democratic Gov. Gray Davis amid
accusations he was pandering to Hispanic voters to try to save his job from a
recall.

Schwarzenegger faces a fight in the Democrat-controlled state Legislature; a
Republican-backed group wants to overturn the law by placing a referendum on the
ballot next March.

In Illinois, the proposal was rejected by a Democrat-controlled Legislature.

About a dozen states let illegal immigrants get licenses, and Sen. Miguel del
Valle, D-Chicago, sponsor of the Illinois bill, said those states had seen the
number of uninsured motorists drop sharply.

"It makes Illinois roads safer, it will bring our insurance rates down and it
will make us more secure as a state because it brings people out of the shadows
and it dries up the market for fraudulent IDs," said Joshua Hoyt, executive
director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Opponents say the practice encourages illegal immigration and threatens national
security because a drivers license can be used to board commercial airliners or
get a hazardous materials license.

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, calls the proposal "an enormous slap in the face to everyone who
plays by the rules and came here legally."

"It is our de facto ID, so by giving it to illegal aliens, you make their lives
easier," Camarota said. "By giving them this ID, if they mean to do us harm,
that certainly advances their ability."

Currently, Illinois law requires a Social Security number to get a drivers
license.

Under the proposal sponsored by del Valle, the state would accept a foreign
passport and birth certificate instead. An illegal immigrant also would have to
show a tax identification number issued by the Internal Reve nue Service.

The Illinois secretary of state's office would ensure that the foreign-issued
documents are legitimate.

Applicants also would have to show they are Illinois residents and sign
affidavits promising to seek citizenship. Illegal immigrants who get licenses
would not be allowed to use them to get a firearm owner's identification card.

About 180,000 illegal immigrants would become eligible for licenses if the
measure passed, based on census figures showing there are about 500,000 illegal
immigrants in Illinois, supporters say.

The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, based in Virginia,
opposes the idea because it wants a uniform process for issuing drivers
licenses, spokesman Jason King said.

Sen. Peter Roskam, R-Wheaton, worries that a drivers license could be used to
open bank accounts or get various documents.

"A drivers license in our society is the key to the kingdom. Once you get a
drivers license, there are very few barriers," he said.

Roskam said he'd rather see the federal government work on stopping illegal
immigration.

"My attitude is, rather than lowering standards, why don't we fix that problem?"
he said. "It seems like we create kind of a mockery of the law."

Gov. Rod Blagojevich said he supported the legislation if applicants showed a
passport, had a taxpayer identification number and could not get a firearm
owner's identification card.

"One thing is clear: These undocumented workers are here, and the question is
how do we make it safer for all of us, and it seems to me that providing drivers
licenses to those who are driving anyway, but building in safeguards ... is the
better policy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              44 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 16, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

HOPING FOR "A GOOD FUTURE"/ SENATE BILL WOULD ALLOW CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL ALIENS
TO STAY IN U.S., ATTEND COLLEGE

BYLINE: Terry Ganey/ Jefferson City Bureau Chief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1510 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


When Marie Gonzalez, 17, a high school senior, spoke to the Kiwanis Club last
week, she talked some about her past accomplishments but was silent about her
plans for the future.

Things are just too uncertain for her. In fact, what happens to Marie Gonzalez
depends on an act of Congress.

Gonzalez was one of two teens who spoke to the club, an international service
organization especially interested in youths. Mike Juneau, 18, a senior honors
student at Jefferson City High School, talked about his plans to attend the
University of Nebraska, become a lawyer and return to run for political office.

Gonzalez, a senior at Helias High School, described how she had mentored younger
students, tutored children in Spanish and provided after care at a local grade
school. But she said nothing about college -- she's worried about graduating
from Helias in May.

Before then, she may be deported.

Marie Gonzalez and her parents, Marvin and Marina Gonzalez, are illegal
immigrants from Costa Rica who have been living and working in the United States
since 1991. Next month, an immigration judge will hold a hearing on whether they
should be ordered out of the country.

For Marie, who came to America when she was 5, it's the only country she's ever
known.

The Gonzalez family and thousands of other undocumented aliens are pinning their
hopes on passage of a bill now pending in the Senate that would allow some
children to remain in the country to attend college. The bill is known as the
Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors, or DREAM, bill.

Co-sponsored by Sens. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah and Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the bill
would allow illegal immigrants who entered the country before age 16 to attend
college in the United States.

The bill would suspend deportation proceedings against illegal aliens who grew
up here and graduated from a U.S. high school. Those who qualify would have a
six-year grace period during which they could attend college.

The bill also would restore states' ability to offer in-state tuition to these
students. After six years, those who qualify could earn permanent resident
status either by attending college for at least two years, serving in the
military or performing community service.

Supporters of the bill say it recognizes the fact that children came here
through their parents' illegal actions. They say it recognizes the potential of
immigrants and what they can give to the community.

"We are just normal people trying to make a living and trying to get by in
life," said Marie Gonzalez, who seems mature for her years. "People need to be
more open-minded about it. These are kids trying to get out and have a good
future. Any country, any city would want that for their community, especially if
they are trying to give back to the community."

Chasing dreams

The Gonzalez family had operated a restaurant in Costa Rica and hoped to run one
in this country. They came to the United States in 1991 and lived in Los
Angeles, where they have relatives. Later the family moved to Cole Camp, Mo.,
and finally Jefferson City, where they operated a downtown restaurant across the
street from the Cole County Courthouse. The restaurant didn't make much money -
in fact, the family went broke at it - but the business introduced them to many
people in the community. One of them is Bob Pratt, a real estate salesman whose
office was near the restaurant.

"They did everything that all citizens would ordinarily do," Pratt said. "They
are better citizens than most of us. They are terrific people."

Marina Gonzalez, now 41, taught Spanish at Immaculate Conception School, where
Marie attended. A teacher there described Marie as an extremely compassionate
student who never hesitated to help others with school work or on service
projects.

At eighth-grade graduation, the faculty awarded Marie the American Citizenship
award sponsored by the Veterans of Foreign Wars. The medal is given for
citizenship, scholarship and attendance.

While Marie attended Helias she became a member of the National Honor Society
and was selected by students and teachers for the "Sophomore Pilgrimage," a
leadership program. Participants in the program observe the Legislature, the
Supreme Court and the governor's office.

Students are nominated by their teachers and elected by the student body.
Successful applicants must have demonstrated citizenship, scholarship and
leadership and be in the top quarter of their class. And this fall, Marie
Gonzalez was one of five members of the homecoming court.

Certificates of Marie's awards and framed newspaper clippings about her
activities cover the wall of a room in the family's red brick house on Jefferson
City's west side. An American flag hangs in front of the house, and the family's
parakeet, "Lucky Gonzalez," chirps from a cage in the kitchen.

Like Marie, Marvin has been in the news, too. That's what led to the family's
troubles with immigration authorities. After the restaurant failed, Marvin
Gonzalez, 50, worked for nearly five years assembling wire harnesses at an
appliance plant before it laid off 450 employees and sent the business to
Mexico.

Then, Gonzalez went to work for Gov. Bob Holden's office as a courier. Every
day, Gonzalez opened the governor's mail. Gonzalez did his work in a sealed room
and was the target of an anthrax scare in Holden's office in January 2002.

In June 2002, someone reported that Gonzalez's visa had expired. Holden fired
him, and the matter attracted the attention of immigration authorities. Holden
said Gonzalez was a dedicated worker who had done his job well. The governor
said he regretted the impact that the disclosure had on the Gonzalez family.

Because of their undocumented status, immigration laws prevent the Gonzalez
family from working for money. They are making ends meet thanks to the
generosity of friends and their church. Benjamin Mook and Roger Nail, two
lawyers from the Kansas City firm of Shook, Hardy and Bacon, are providing free
legal representation for the family in their deportation fight. They say the
Gonzalez family is in trouble because they allowed th eir visa documents to
expire. Beyond that, they provide no details.

College applications

Marvin Gonzalez has collected 275 college admission and application forms for
his daughter. If she could stay in the United States, she is interested in
attending the University of Missouri at Columbia, Westminster College in Fulton
or Truman State University in Kirksville. Marie Gonzalez says she'd like to
become a lawyer to help people who run into similar problems as her family's.

Durbin's mother was a naturalized citizen from Lithuania. He estimates that
between 7,000 to 13,000 students are in the same predicament as Marie Gonzalez.
He said he got the idea for the bill after learning about a child in a family
from Korea who had won a college scholarship for music but may be forced to go
back to Korea.

"A lot of kids who through no fault of their own came here, have graduated high
school and are looking forward to giving something back but the door is closed,"
Durbin said.

"In Chicago I know there are hundreds of them who are some of the best and the
brightest coming out of high school and are stopped in their tracks," Durbin
said. "I think what we are missing here is the chance to take the best and
brightest people who have been here for five years and give them a chance to
succeed and give back to America. Among these kids is a doctor, or a nurse, an
engineer or a businessperson who is going to make a big contribution."

With bipartisan support, the bill has been approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, which Hatch leads, and is awaiting Senate consideration. Some 36
senators have signed onto the measure.

Both of Missouri's senators, Republicans Christopher "Kit" Bond and Jim Talent,
oppose the bill.

"Senator Bond supports full compliance with existing immigration laws," said
Shana Stribling, a spokeswoman for Bond's office. "He has serious concerns with
any legislation like the DREAM Act that makes exceptions to these laws and that
provide incentives for people to come here illegally."

Rich Chrismer, a spokesman for Talent, said, "Senator Talent welcomes those who
come to this country to improve themselves and build something for their
families. However, he does not support anything in the nature of an amnesty
unless and until we clarify the existing immigration system."

Pratt, who is a friend of the Gonzalez family, is hoping someone will intervene
in their case.

"Someone should give them a break and recognize their de facto citizenship,"
Pratt said.

* * * * *

The Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors bill, co-sponsored by
Sens. Richard Durbin, D-Ill. and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, would allow immigrants who
entered the country before age 16 to attend college in the United States. "A lot
of kids who through no fault of their own came here, have graduated high school
and are looking forward to giving something back but the door is closed, "
Durbin said

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Terry Ganey/ E-mail: tganey@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
573-635-6178

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photos by TRACY BOULIAN / Post-Dispatch -/ (1) Marie
Gonzalez, 17, (left) and her father, Marvin Gonzalez (reflected in a mirror), in
their home in Jefferson City on Thursday. The Gonzalez family came to the United
States in 1991 and allowed their visas to expire, their lawyers say. An
immigration judge is scheduled to hold a hearing next month on whether they
should be deported./ (2) Marvin Gonzalez (left), Marina Gonzalez and their
daughter, Marie, pray before dinner Thursday. They are hoping for passage of a
Senate bill that would allow Marie to stay in the United States to attend
college./ (3) Color photo headshot - (Richard) Durbin/ (4) Color photo headshot
- (Orrin) Hatch/ (5) Photo by TRACY BOULIAN/POST-DISPATCH - Marie Gonzalez, 17,
does her French homework at her home in Jefferson City last week. She is a
senior at Helias High School but is worried that she may be deported before
graduation in May.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              45 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 23, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

CHASING DREAMS, CAPTURING TRAGEDY/ "IN AMERICA" RESONATES WITH LIFE

BYLINE: Cliff Froehlich/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: A[E] Pg. C3

LENGTH: 1215 words


Just as illegal immigrants Johnny (Paddy Considine) and Sarah (Samantha Morton)
slip across the U.S.-Canada border in search of a new life, filmmaker Jim
Sheridan enters fresh territory with "In America," moving from the political to
the personal, the head to the heart.

The line between these supposed polarities, of course, is blurry, and Sheridan
has never worked entirely on one side of any divide (see the accompanying look
at his career). But "In America," which opens theatrically on Dec. 10, is
Sheridan at his most naked and primal. A tender, semi-autobiographical
remembrance of his young family's trying sojourn in the States, "In America"
unabashedly embraces emotion over intellect.

Sheridan underlines that aspect of "In America" with the film's frequent
allusions to "E.T.," Steven Spielberg's affecting drama about another sort of
alien visitor. "I loved it," Sheridan enthuses in a phone interview. "I'd worked
in theater for 10 years, and anytime I went to see films, it was Bergman or
Fellini, and we all felt very intellectual. When I came to America, I was
working hard, I hardly ever had time off, no time with the kids, and I went to
see 'E.T.' And it was like, 'Wow, that's the movies. That's escape. That's
powerful.'"

Sheridan was particularly impressed by Spielberg's ability to combine feeling
and meaning. "It seemed to have two dimensions," he says. "In America" aims for
-- and frequently achieves -- the same effect, and it has a similar storybook
quality. Shot largely from the perspective of Johnny and Sarah's young
daughters, Christy and Ariel (sisters Sarah and Emma Bolger), the movie is
infused with a childlike wonder.

The New York the family encounters, however, is by no means wholly fantastical.
They alight in a grim tenement, aswarm with junkies and down-and-outers,
including a glowering African artist, Mateo (Djimon Honsou), whose banshee wails
echo in the building's stairwell. Shadows of the past further darken the gloomy
present: Johnny has failed to cope with the recent death of the couple's son,
Frankie. Johnny has shut down, closed off his emotions, complicating his
relationship with Sarah and adding to his struggles to find work as an actor.

Sheridan leavens this heavy material by freely mixing realism and fabulism --
magical elements appear (the girls invoke Frankie's spirit to solve major
crises), and Mateo eventually assumes an E.T.-like significance in the family's
life, particularly during the dangerously premature birth of Johnny and Sarah's
new child.

"I think fabulism is a good word for it," says Sheridan. "It's an 'It's a
Wonderful Life' kind of idea. As 'It's a Wonderful Life' is about suicide, this
is about a dead child, and you can't get anything more deep in the human psyche
of a tragedy. So how do you keep it buoyant, how do you keep people wanting to
see it? A lot of the elements are the kind of stuff that would actually bring
the spirit down unless treated in a slightly magic or fabulist way."

Despite the fairy-tale aspects of "In America," some of the film's more
eyebrow-raising plot points spring directly from Sheridan's own experience.
Sheridan combined two people to create Mateo, and there's one key divergence
between movie and reality -- Frankie was not the director's son but his younger
brother, whose death at age 10 deeply affected the 17-year-old Sheridan -- but
he asserts that "about 90 percent of it's real life."

Paradoxically, the biographical basis of the film actually made verisimilitude
more difficult to achieve. "Real life is hard to make into a drama," Sheridan
says. "Sometimes it's too mad, you know? Too crazy and too wild and too
unbelievable."

Sheridan cites a true story that was excluded from the film because of its
seeming implausibility: "You know, when the baby was born, I was actually
onstage," he recalls. "I was doing a part for an actor who was sick for a night,
and they prompted me on the show. The audience was laughing. The baby came, and
my wife sent the kids down, and I told the theater people to get the kids out of
the audience. And at the end of the show, they said, 'Mum's in hospital. She
told us not to tell you until after the show.'"

Even if Sheridan had chosen to incorporate that seemingly outlandish bit of show
business, his exceptional actors would likely have convinced us of its truth.
The adults -- Considine, Honsou and especially Morton -- deliver fine
performances, but the Bolger sisters are a consistent astonishment. Sarah, 10
during the filming, had acted previously, but "In America" marks Emma's debut.

Sheridan vividly recalls his first encounter with then-6-year-old Emma: "I went
in to the audition, and there was this little girl there with a beautiful face,
and she was like my daughter. I asked her to read, and I didn't know if she
could read, never mind act. And she was brilliant. I thought, 'Oh, she's gonna
be precocious and too good,' and so I asked another kid (to read). As the other
kid was reading it, the first girl pulled my coat from behind. I looked around,
and she was looking at me with pity, as if I'd crossed some line of etiquette
that I wasn't aware of. She said, 'Jim,' and I said, 'Yes?' She said, 'Is she
reading my part?'

"I was thinking, 'Wow, that's weird.' I wanted to answer, 'No, it's an
audition,' but I couldn't break her system of belief. So I just stared at her,
and she didn't back down. I thought, 'God, this kid has self-esteem.' So I found
myself saying, 'Nobody's reading your part -- you're cast.' And she said, 'My
sister's downstairs.' I said, 'What age?' She said, '10,' and I said, 'Too
young.' But she said, 'Why don't you meet her anyway?' So I went down and cast
her sister."

Sarah was equally self-possessed. On the shoot's first day, Sheridan had a
profane outburst when something went awry. Sarah immediately approached him:
"She said, 'Jim, can I have a word?' She said, 'It's OK to curse in front of me,
I'm 10, but my sister's only 6. And it's rude to curse in front of her, so I'm
going to have to ask you to stop.'"

Sheridan clearly remains awed by his young stars. "The thing about them is that
they're not extraordinary actors, they're extraordinary people," he says. "Huge
power, genuine charm and warmth. People want to have kids after seeing them in
the film. They're amazing, I think."

Much of "In America" proves amazing. Like the classic films Sheridan
specifically references, "E.T." and "It's a Wonderful Life," "In America" will
strike some hardened cynics as emotionally manipulative, but despite some
bathos, the movie largely earns its tears.

"I was a bit afraid of the sentimentality," the director admits. "When you're
dealing with your own family, probably you can't avoid sentiment. I would say if
the film errs slightly, it does err on the side of sentiment. But that's
forgivable."

Moved and misty-eyed audiences will agree that "In America" requires no excuses.

= = = =

"In America"

What: Closing-night presentation of the St. Louis International Film Festival,
honoring director Jim Sheridan as a Modern Master

When: 6 p.m. Sunday

Where: Tivoli Theatre, 6350 Delmar Boulevard

How much: $8; $7 for Cinema St. Louis members and students with valid ID

More info: 314-454-0042 or www.cinemastlouis.org

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Ideas - A forum for: beliefs, opinions, new approaches & stray thoughts/
Arts and Entertainment Editor Cliff Froehlich/ E-mail:
cfroehlich@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 314-340-8124

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo - Sheridan interacts with actress Emma Bolger during the
making of "In America."

TYPE: PROFILE/JIM SHERIDAN/FILMMAKER/"IN AMERICA"

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              46 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 23, 2003 Sunday Illinois Five Star Edition

GROOM'S ARREST LEADS TO BOOKING ROOM CEREMONY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: SEDALIA, MO.


A city police officer kept Isidro Alejo-Ubaldo from getting to church on time
for his wedding.

So it was the least he could do to witness the nuptials when the illegal
immigrant found himself getting married at the Sedalia Police Department instead
of St. Patrick Church.

On Saturday, Patrolman Craig Burton arrested Alejo-Ubaldo, 23, on two local
traffic warrants. Alejo-Ubaldo was using the name John Anthony Flores, police
said.

"He said he was getting married and would do anything to get to his wedding,"
Burton said.

Alejo-Ubaldo was about to leave the Sedalia Police Department after posting bond
when federal immigration authorities notified officers of his true identity.

The groom-to-be, due at the church at noon, had to remain at the police station.

The Rev. Timothy Guthridge, who was to perform the ceremony, said he heard about
the arrest a half-hour before the wedding was to start.

"The license and papers were all in order, so I suggested to the bride that, if
she wanted, I would call the police station and see if the wedding could be
performed there," Guthridge said.

Dispatcher Danelle Taylor ar ranged for permission with Cmdr. Larry Ward, and
the priest and bride were brought into the booking room for the ceremony.

Taylor ended up as matron of honor, while Burton acted as groomsman.

"Both of our names are on the wedding license as witnesses," Burton said.

The bride and wedding party went on to a reception, while the groom went to the
Pettis County Jail.

A week earlier, Taylor helped save a wedding when she got a bride's gown from a
closed dry cleaning shop.

"I guess I've become the wedding planner," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: * Note: This report also ran in the THREE STAR editions, page D9.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              47 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 21, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 418 words


HARTFORD, CONN.

Newspaper calls for governor's resignation

Connecticut's largest newspaper called on Gov. John G. Rowland to resign in an
editorial prepared for Sunday's edition, saying a corruption investigation and
his "repeated deceptions" over accepting gifts from friends and contractors are
hurting state government.

A week after warning Rowland he had just one more chance to come clean, The
Hartford Courant wrote, "Enough of this gubernatorial nonsense. The way to end
this sad spectacle is for the governor to resign.

"His repeated deceptions as well as the wide-ranging federal investigation of
alleged corruption in his administration have had a debilitating effect on state
government," the newspaper said.

PHOENIX

Body of Border Patrol agent is found in river

The body of a missing Border Patrol agent has been found in the Colorado River
near the spot where he rescued a suspected illegal immigrant from the water.

The FBI was investigating the death of James Epling, said Jerome Wofford, a
field operations supervisor for the Border Patrol's Yuma sector.

An autopsy was conducted Saturday by the Maricopa County medical examiner's
office, said Joe Brigman, a spokesman for the Yuma sector.

Epling, 24, was last seen Tuesday chasing four suspected illegal immigrants
along a river trail just north of the Mexico border near Yuma. Moments earlier,
he had pulled one of the immigrants, a Chinese woman, from the river.

His body was found Friday within 200 yards of where he was last seen, in water
about 27 feet deep, said Joe Brigman, a spokesman for the sector. Divers had to
use sonar in their search.

WASHINGTON

Al Gore's son faces marijuana charge

The son of Al Gore, the former vice president and 2000 Democratic presidential
nominee, has been charged with marijuana possession.

Albert A. Gore III, 21, was arrested Friday night after he was stopped for
driving a vehicle without its headlights on, authorities said.

Two passengers were also arrested and charged with misdemeanor marijuana
possession. They were identified as Yann V. Kumin, 21, and Marc G. Hordon, 22,
both of Cambridge, Mass.

All three were released pending trial.

A Montgomery County, Md., police officer stopped the car, a dark-colored
Cadillac, in Bethesda, a Washington suburb, about 11:30 p.m. Friday.

A search of the vehicle turned up a partial marijuana cigarette, a cigarette box
containing suspected marijuana and a soft drink can that also smelled of
marijuana, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              48 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 21, 2003 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 408 words


PHOENIX

Body of Border Patrol agent is found in river

The body of a missing Border Patrol agent has been found in the Colorado River
near the spot where he rescued a suspected illegal immigrant from the water.The
FBI was investigating the death of James Epling, said Jerome Wofford, a field
operations supervisor for the Border Patrol's Yuma sector.

An autopsy was conducted Saturday by the Maricopa County medical examiner's
office, said Joe Brigman, a spokesman for the Yuma sector.

Epling, 24, was last seen Tuesday chasing four suspected illegal immigra nts
along a river trail just north of the Mexico border near Yuma. Moments earlier,
he had pulled one of the immigrants, a Chinese woman, from the river.

His body was found Friday within 200 yards of where he was last seen, in water
about 27 feet deep, said Joe Brigman, a spokesman for the sector. Divers had to
use sonar in their search in the turbulent, cloudy water.

MINNEAPOLIS

Kidnapping spurs push to commit sex offenders

After a rapist was arrested in a college student's disappearance, the Minnesota
Corrections Department has started sending prosecutors the names of sex
offenders they might want to consider for commitment.

Alfonso Rodriguez Jr., the rapist, is charged with kidnapping Dru Sjodin, 22,
last month in Grand Forks, N.D.

Last week, the state Corrections Department sent letters to 25 county attorneys
with the names of about 200 Level 3 sex offenders, those considered most likely
to reoffend. Of those names, 135 have been released.

Rodriguez was labeled a Level 3 sex offender when he was released from prison in
May after serving 23 years for attempted kidnapping and assault.

Corrections Commissioner Joan Fabian has said her department made a mistake in
not referring Rodriguez for commitment. Sex offenders who are committed are sent
indefinitely to state treatment facilities.

PHOENIX

New bishop is installed for Phoenix diocese

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Phoenix installed a new bishop Saturday to replace
Thomas O'Brien, whose tenure included allegations of abuse by priests and his
arrest in a deadly hit-and-run accident.

Thomas Olmsted, the bishop of Wichita, Kan., becomes the new spiritual leader of
more than 470,000 Catholics in Arizona.

In June, prosecutors announced an immunity deal with O'Brien that spared the
church leader indictment on obstruction charges for protecting priests accused
of child molestation.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 13, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

JUSTICES LET STAND THE SECRET JAILINGS OF FOREIGNERS/ DECISION IN POST-SEPT. 11
DETENTIONS CASE IS VICTORY FOR ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: Anne Gearan/ The Associated Press/ Reuters News Service Contributed To
This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court said Monday it would not second-guess the government's
decision to hold hundreds of foreigners in secret after the Sept. 11 attacks.

None of the more than 700 illegal immigrants was charged as a terrorist, and the
Justice Department's inspector general concluded last year that the government
had trampled on a law stipulating that such detentions be limited to 90 days.

The high court turned down a request to review the secrecy surrounding the
detainees, nearly all Arabs or Muslims, who were picked up in the United States
after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Most were
eventually deported for immigration violations. The government refused to
disclose whom it held and why.

The court's action, taken without comment, was a victory for President George W.
Bush's administration. Civil liberties and media organizations had sought access
to the names and other basic information about the detainees.

A federal appeals court had sided with the administration and its argument that
knowing the names or details of the arrests would give terrorists a window on
the post-Sept. 11 terrorism investigation. By refusing to hear the case, the
Supreme Court allowed that ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia to stand.

"Until some other court says otherwise, the government can continue the policy
of secret arrests that seems fundamentally inconsistent with basic American
values and that we know in this case led to a series of abuses," said Steven
Shapiro, national legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which
had urged the court to hear the case.

Shapiro said he still believed the secret arrest of more than 700 people
violated basic due-process rights. He said the government's own reports had
documented mistreatment and arbitrary detentions.

"Such abuses are always more likely when the government is allowed to operate in
secrecy," he said.

The audit by the Justice Department's inspector general found significant
problems with the detentions, including allegations of physical abuse by jail
guards at a facility in Brooklyn, N.Y.

The report, released in June, found that many of the 762 illegal aliens were
held until cleared by the FBI of any terrorism connections. Sometimes the
process took many months despite the law requiring that most aliens be deported
or released within 90 days.

A follow-up analysis last week cited progress in centralizing vital terrorist
information databases so that authorities could more quickly assess who might be
a threat but warned the job was not done. The government has said that
improvements since the Sept. 11 attacks make it easier for government agencies
to share information about foreigners in the country.

"When the Sept. 11 investigation led us to those who had violated our nation's
laws, we enforced those laws and detained those individuals," Attorney General
John Ashcroft said Monday. "We are pleased the court let stand a decision that
clearly outlined the danger of giving terrorists a virtual road map to our
investigation that could have allowed them to chart a potentially deadly detour
around our efforts."

Lawyers for the ACLU and other civil liberties groups argued that the government
grabbed people on thin suspicion, then moved to deport detainees who had no
demonstrated link to terrorism but who had violated civil immigration laws.

The government sealed immigration records and omitted detainees' names from jail
rosters, among other tactics, to make sure details of hundreds of arrests
remained secret, the lawyers said.

The appeal raised constitutional questions under the First Amendment right to
freedom of speech and freedom of the press, and legal questions under the
federal Freedom of Information Act.

Twenty-three news organizations and media groups, including The Associated
Press, joined in asking the high court to hear the case.

Last week, the high court disappointed the administration by agreeing to hear a
broader anti-terrorism case that asks whether the government can indefinitely
jail American citizens as "enemy combatants" without giving them access to
lawyers or the courts. Bush's administration had argued strongly that it has
authority to hold Yaser Esam Hamdi without charges.

The Hamdi case and another one testing the legal rights of foreigners detained
indefinitely at the Navy's prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, draw the court
squarely into the debate over security and liberty after the terrorist attacks.

The justices earlier had rejected several cases that raised more oblique
questions about the government's response to the terrorist threat. One involved
an issue similar to Monday's secrecy case. It asked whether the government could
keep reporters and the public away from closed-door deportation hearings.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              50 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 23, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 1360 words


Give immigrants a fair chance

The Jan. 11 letter from M.B. Klem Jr., regarding the proposed amnesty to
undocumented immigrants who have been residing illegally in the country for many
years, reflects a lack of understanding of the situation.

People by the thousands have been entering the United States clandestinely from
Mexico, Central America and Europe for at least the past 50 years while
immigration authorities looked the other way. They come looking for work to send
a few dollars to their impoverished families left behind. They find work in
construction, on farms, in restaurants and wherever they can be hired to do the
menial jobs that no American wants.

They are employed in labor-intensive tasks, get paid the minimum wage and thus
contribute to our economy. They pay taxes and are not a burden to the
communities at large. They are often exploited and treated unfairly without
recourse to justice. They live in fear of deportation and will do everything to
remain in the country.

The proposal by President George W. Bush would grant visas and identify a hidden
population and, in turn, ameliorate a long-existing problem. I am sure Klem's
letter was referring to Mexicans and Central Americans. Let me remind him that
Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California were once Mexican territory stolen in
a most unjust war in 1847 by the United States. So why is Klem so mad? In a way,
these illegal immigrants have as much right, if not more, to be given a fair
chance to legalize their status as any ethnic group coming from Europe or Asia.

J. Ricardo Mendoza

St. Louis

It's a tough job

I'd be pleased to serve as a consultant to the Convention and Sports Complex
Authority to "experience the Dome like the fans of the Rams, and . . . see the
good points and bad points," which is the rationale Larry Deskins gave for free
luxury-box tickets for board members and their consultants.

I'd be equally pleased to attend all functions at the Edward Jones Dome and
America's Center to experience things as attendees experience them. I'd even
write a brief report on each event. My fee would be only $75 an hour and I would
take Metro to the Convention Center station, instead of asking for a travel
allowance.

This certainly would allow a reduction in the salary of the executive director,
Kent Underwood, and obviate the need to buy a luxury box for Rams games.

I would enjoy the income boost, the authority could save a lot of money and
authority members and consultants would be spared the onerous task of monitoring
events at the complex -- especially the distracting, noisy and stressful work
involved in monitoring Rams games.

John Reiner

Edwardsville

A spirit of service

I applaud Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich for wanting to make 40 hours of
community service mandatory for high school students to graduate.

Having attended high school in Maryland, where 40 hours of community service is
required, I can tell you that mandated volunteerism does not drain volunteerism
of its spirit.

To fulfill the requirement, I became involved with the Appalachia Service
Project through my church. It involved a trip to the Appalachian Mountains for
one week during the summer to help repair homes.

The families we helped had great pride in their homes and families. They had an
amazing love for one another, and they were genuinely happy.

I participated in the program for two more summers, and after my freshman year
of college I spent my summer in McDowell County, W.Va., as a staff member for
the Appalachian Service Project. I slept on a air mattress and survived on
peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. It was the best summer of my life!

Schools educate citizens. Volunteering is a great way to teach students how to
become better citizens and better people. A little push to volunteer made me
experience more spirit than I have ever known.

Nicole Kellogg

Kirksville

Frivolous lawsuits

I read attorney Richard Burke's reaction to the State of the Union address and
found it funny how irked he was at the president's attempt to limit frivolous
lawsuits. I'm sure Burke was mad all the way from his Webster Groves home to his
office in Madison County -- otherwise known as the Frivolous Lawsuit Capital of
the World.

Steve Klingel

Edwardsville

Unneeded project

This is in response to the Jan. 19 letter from Olivette Councilwoman Missy
Waldman about the interchange at Olive Boulevard and Interstate 170. She
confuses "naysayers" with people who are legitimately concerned that the
Missouri Department of Transportation is about to waste $25 million when a $5
million solution exists.

Waldman claims that East-West Gateway's traffic study does not "address the
reality of the situation." In fact, it is based on peak-hour traffic counts and
firsthand observations.

Overpass supporters believe, without any evidence, that more pavement equals
more growth and more tax dollars. Many are the same people who proposed a
massive strip mall TIF project. Olivette voters soundly defeated this proposal,
because it was inconsistent with the kind of community they wanted. The
interchange proposal originally was advanced as a part of that project. The
voters of Olivette should view it with the same skepticism.

Most of Olivette's traffic problems have nothing to do with the overpass itself.
Many of us are concerned that this huge interchange, combined with MoDOT's
planned widening of Olive, will throw more traffic onto residential streets,
damage healthy local businesses and be inconsistent with our plans for
pedestrian-friendly growth.

MoDOT's $25 million "solution" harkens back to the repudiated TIF. If a
lower-cost solution can be found, maybe MoDOT can solve some truly serious
traffic problems at I-170 and I-64, at I-170 and Page Avenue, and at I-270 and
Page, just to name a few.

Scott Smith

City Councilman, Olivette

Vashon incentive

The situation at Vashon High School is a sad commentary. Imagine the frustration
of concerned parents, achieving students and staff members who go into battle
each day.

Here's one idea that might help. Plan a monthly appearance by Nelly or a popular
rap group. Admission would be by ticket only. Each student could earn a ticket
based on attendance and good behavior. Police presence would be strong, of
course.

Performing artists and athletes say they want to give back. What better way!

Elizabeth Magraw

Ballwin

Indian removal

A Jan. 21 letter to the editor from Ernie Meyers suggests that Andrew Jackson's
victory in the 1832 presidential election was a measure of the lack of
opposition to the Indian Removal Act of 1830. Perhaps a better measure of
dissent would be the 1829 congressional vote itself. According to a University
of Oregon Web site, the bill was passed in the House and Senate by votes of 102
to 97 and 28 to 19, respectively. Rep. David Crockett of Tennessee, the frontier
icon, was one of those voting against the act. Obviously, there was considerable
disagreement on this issue.

In addition, Meyers introduces a quote that seems to justify the 1830 act as
being a retaliation against native American violence. Retaliation it may have
been, but not justice, since its effect was to punish the innocent along with
the guilty.

The emphasis on native violence as a historical cause of the Removal Act also
ignores another very real cause: the profit to be made from expropriated Indian
lands.

Ivan Collier

Manchester

In high style

I want to applaud you from the tip of my coifed curls to the heels of my Manola
Blaniks for making the fashion pages available to your entire readership. After
I moved here 18 years ago, my discovery about the lack of a style section for
city residents made me a malcontent.

You have now freed my style-hungry soul to peruse Lisa Townsel's delightful
insight into fads and trends. I promise to put away my grievances about the past
fashion void and dedicate myself to promoting a haute-couture Midwest. Why
should we wait two years until the styles of the East and West coasts slowly
filter their way here? Celebrate St. Louis for all her flamboyant modesty!

Jean Larson Steck

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              51 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             March 4, 2004 Thursday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

HOUSE PANEL OKS DRIVERS LICENSES FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN ILLINOIS/ FULL
CHAMBER NOW GETS MEASURE SIMILAR TO ONE THAT DIED LAST YEAR

BYLINE: Ryan Keith/ The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


A plan to let illegal immigrants obtain special Illinois drivers licenses,
rejected by legislators last year, moved back on track Wednesday in the
Legislature.

The House Executive Committee voted 10-2 to allow the licenses for an estimated
300,000 undocumented immigrants who could be eligible in Illinois.

Supporters say illegal immigrants work hard and make valid contributions to the
community as taxpayers, but because they don't have Social Security numbers,
they can't qualify for licenses. Many drive illegally anyway, supporters say,
and granting the licenses would improve road safety by ensuring drivers get
adequate training and have insurance.

"There's an issue here that needs to be addressed," said Rep. Edward Acevedo, a
Chicago Democrat sponsoring the bill. "This is a public safety issue that deals
with uninsured motorists."

Similar plans have been approved in eight states.

Last year's proposal in Illinois narrowly failed in the Senate amid concern
about homeland security and the cheapening of U.S. citizenship.

Acevedo said changes to the bill this year should help quell those concerns by
requiring applicants to submit fingerprints to the Illinois State Police and
giving the special licenses a different appearance from other licenses.

The bill now heads to the full House, though Acevedo said he expects he may have
to make more changes to gain support.

The bill is HB4003.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              52 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              March 17, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 602 words


TUCSON, Ariz.

Security initiative gets under way at border

Unmanned aerial surveillance drones, more Border Patrol agents and expanded
detention facilities are part of a federal plan announced Tuesday to help stanch
the flow of illegal immigrants across the Mexico-Arizona border.

The Department of Homeland Security launched the Arizona Border Control
Initiative "to create a safer and more secure Arizona," said Asa Hutchinson, the
department's undersecretary for border security.

Forty percent of the nation's illegal immigrants come through the Arizona
border, he said. The initiative is expected to cost more than $10 million and
run through September. Starting in June, two surveillance drones will be used
over remote desert areas.

The initiative will add 200 to 400 Border Patrol agents to the 1,800 in the
Tucson sector, which encompasses most of Arizona's border.

WASHINGTON

Parks show effects of cuts, group says

America's national parks are being underfunded by as much as $600 million a
year, forcing severe cuts that threaten resources and undermine visitors'
enjoyment, says a parks advocacy group.

The report by the National Park Conservation Association said parks are getting
just two-thirds of the funding they need, leading to staffing shortages and the
deterioration of facilities.

As a result, the group said, American Indian artifacts are being stolen from
Chaco Culture National Historic Park in New Mexico; black bears are being
poached in Shenandoah National Park in Virginia; and collections are piled in
offices at the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument in Montana or in a
basement at Acadia National Park in Maine.

It also hinders law enforcement, detracts from ranger-guided programs and is
forcing some parks to close visitors centers, the group said.

PROVIDENCE, R.I.

Judge finds reporter in contempt of court

A television reporter was found in contempt of court Tuesday for refusing to
reveal who leaked an FBI videotape of an official accepting a bribe during an
investigation into corruption at City Hall.

WJAR-TV's Jim Taricani was originally given until noon today to identify the
tape's source, or begin paying a $1,000-a-day fine until he complies with the
judge's order. But an appeals court issued a temporary stay of the judge's
ruling, Taricani's attorney said.

Taricani said he had no intention of revealing his source. "I do believe what I
did was what I should have done as a journalist," he said.

The videotape shows an undercover informer handing an envelope to former mayoral
aide Frank Corrente that contained a cash bribe for either Corrente or former
Providence Mayor Vincent "Buddy" Cianci Jr. U.S. District Judge Ernest Torres
said leaking the FBI videotape violated a federal court protective order that
prohibited any of the attorneys, investigators or defendants from disseminating
tapes connected to the case.

MADISON, Wis.

Pharmacist faces complaint by agency

A state agency is accusing a pharmacist of blocking a woman's attempts to refill
her birth control prescription because of his religious beliefs.

The Department of Regulation and Licensing's complaint against Neil Noesen
stemmed from his refusal to transfer the prescription to another pharmacy.

The complaint was filed Friday with the Wisconsin Pharmacy Examining Board over
the 2002 incident at a Kmart pharmacy in Menomonie. Christopher Klein, spokesman
for the Department of Regulation and Licensing, said pharmacists have the right
to refuse to fill birth control prescriptions but must transfer the
prescriptions to another pharmacy.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Brent Markert with the Wisconsin
Department of Transportation is surrounded by russet potatoes Tuesday after a
truck accident in Saratoga, Wis. A truck carrying 42,000 pounds of spuds tipped
over.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              53 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             April 1, 2004 Thursday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

HOUSE REJECTS LICENSES FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS/ MANY LEGAL RESIDENTS CAN'T DRIVE IF
THEY BREAK THE LAW, CRITICS SAY

BYLINE: Brian Wallheimer/ Post-Dispatch Springfield Bureau

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


The Illinois House on Wednesday voted down a measure that would have allowed
illegal immigrants living in Illinois to get drivers licenses.

Proponents of the proposal argued it would make Illinois roads safer because
those immigrants would be able to get auto insurance and would have to learn
road laws to get their licenses.

"I think it will get uninsured drivers off the road and get them properly
trained," said state Rep. Dave Winters, R-Rockford.

Opponents said giving licenses to illegal immigrants was unfair to legal
residents who could not get a license because they broke a law.

"There are people who are legal who cannot get a drivers license for reasons
that they have done illegal things. You want me to give someone who has
committed an illegal act a drivers license," said state Rep. Mary Flowers,
D-Chicago.

The bill did not garner enough votes for its sponsor to ask for another vote
later in the week, failing 43-68 with six legislators voting present. The bill
would have needed 60 votes to be sent to the Senate.

On another matter, the House passed the Commonsense Consumption Act, which would
make it illegal to sue a restaurant claiming the food caused obesity or
weight-related illnesses.

"I think this nation has got to get away from this new culture where people
always try to play the victim and blame others from their problems," said state
Rep. Eileen Lyons, R-Western Springs. "Litigation against the food industry is
not going to make a single individual any skinnier. It will only make the trial
lawyers' bank accounts fatter."

The issue stems from a lawsuit in New York last year that blamed McDonald's for
obesity problems in children. That suit was thrown out.

The House also approved the Homeless Bill of Rights, which, among other things,
would give the homeless the right to vote as long as they have a mailing
address, such as at a shelter.

The bill, sponsored by state Rep. Wyvetter Younge, D-East St. Louis, is similar
to a bill that the House passed last year that was sent to the Senate, but was
not been acted on.

Other rights the proposal would give to the homeless include: the right to live
in any community they can afford; the right to employment and job training; the
right to emergency health care; and the right to refuse medical treatment not
authorized by a physician.

Opponents of the bill argued that Illinois already gives the homeless the right
to live in communities they can afford and get job training and employment.

"There are local regulations but they're being violated," Younge said. "Homeless
people are not given the right to living arrangements they are entitled to.
That's the point. "

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Brian Wallheimer/ E-mail: bwallheimer@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
217-782-4912

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              54 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 3, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 302 words


A nation of laws?

I thought I was a liberal, but I guess I'm losing my liberal ways after reading
your March 31 article on letting illegal immigrants get Illinois drivers
licenses.

Your article tells of the Aparicio family, now in the country illegally. The
father, Juan, has no license or insurance and no Social Security number, thus he
pays no taxes to the country he now depends on for his family's well-being.

Yet he drives everywhere, putting others at risk physically and financially. I
agree with Dave Gorak of the Midwest Coalition to Reduce Immigration: Either we
are a nation of laws or we are not, "and there is no middle ground." Why isn't
Mr. Aparicio arrested for having no license and no insurance, as you or I would
be?

Instead, off he goes, continuing to break the laws of the country he entered
illegally.

John Bauer

Manchester

Desperate for care

I am very disappointed by the Medicaid bills passed by and pending in the
Missouri House. A society is judged by how well it cares for its poor and
disadvantaged, and this bill will be an embarrassment to all Missourians if it
is passed.

The main arguments against the present Medicaid system seem to be that one out
of every five citizens is covered under the present rules, and the state of
Missouri obviously cannot have that many people desperate for medical care.

Unfortunately, because of our present economic situation, increased unemployment
and the number of low-paying jobs without health insurance, it does not seem
improbable that 20 percent of our citizens need Medicaid help.

The solution to this problem is not to decrease the number of eligible citizens
but to keep them covered while legislators take steps to help correct the above
mentioned causes of the lack of medical care.

William A. Joern

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              55 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 3, 2004 Monday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

10 MEN FROM VAN MAY BE UNDOCUMENTED MEXICANS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 124 words


Ten men believed to be undocumented immigrants are in an Illinois jail after
their van got stuck in the mud Sunday near Maryville.

The men, thought to be Mexican citizens, are expected to be interviewed today by
federal immigration officials.

The men were riding in a 1988 GMC minivan on Interstate 270 near the Route 159
Maryville and Glen Carbon exit. The van had Colorado plates. Police said they
didn't know where the men were heading.

Sometime between noon and 3:30 p.m., the van drove off the interstate and got
stuck in the median, said Illinois State Police Sgt. Joe Leach. The men ran into
Maryville, where police picked them up.

Police transferred them to the Madison County Jail in Edwardsville. The men were
not charged.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              56 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 3, 2004 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

10 MEN FROM VAN MAY BE UNDOCUMENTED MEXICANS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 98 words


Ten men believed to be undocumented immigrants are in an Illinois jail after
their van got stuck in the mud Sunday near Maryville.

The men, thought to be Mexican citizens, are expected to be interviewed today by
federal immigration officials.

The men were riding in a 1988 GMC minivan on Interstate 270 near the Route 159
Maryville and Glen Carbon exit. The van had Colorado plates.

Between noon and 3:30 p.m., the van drove off the interstate and got stuck in
the median, said Illinois State Police Sgt. Joe Leach. The men ran into
Maryville, where police picked them up.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              57 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 4, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

CROSSING CONFLICT

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2492 words

DATELINE: PALOMINAS, ARIZ.


* Residents of Cochise County in Arizona say an increase in illegal migrant
traffic and drug smugglers crossing the U.S.-Mexico border have wreaked havoc in
the area. To discourage the crossings, volunteers patrol the area in what they
call a "neighborhood watch," sometimes aided by self-styled armed militia.

Wearing a camouflage jacket that cloaks the semi-automatic handgun at his waist,
Chris Simcox aims his binoculars less than a mile away toward the seven strands
of barbed wire that divide this remote desert town from Mexico.

Since October 2002, the Moline, Ill., native has made it his self-appointed duty
to send illegal immigrants back to the other side of the barbed-wire border.
Simcox calls it a "neighborhood watch."

Cochise County, Ariz., style.

"It is the wild, wild West out here," said Simcox, 43, owner of the Tombstone
Tumbleweed, the weekly paper he uses partly to recruit members for his Civil
Homeland Defense Corps patrol group and chronicle its exploits. "But it's not
us."

Undocumented immigrants have surged through this southeastern Arizona county in
recent years. After a decade of federal security buildups elsewhere along the
border, the remote mountainous deserts of the state are now the preferred point
of passage for illegal crossers. They leave behind trash, and at times their own
dehydrated or frozen cadavers -- en route to better-paying jobs in the United
States.

Many in Cochise County sympathize with the migrants' plight. But few dispute
that the increased migrant traffic and drug smugglers that use the same
well-worn trails have wreaked havoc in the area.

"The end result, so far, in Cochise County has been devastation of the
environment, degradation of the quality of life, a tremendous collision between
residents and illegal immigrants from all over the world," Cochise County
Sheriff Larry Dever says.

Simcox's group and other civilian patrols that cropped up in recent years have
recruited some disgruntled property owners. But they also have drawn
significantly from those who have come from other states, attracted by the
groups' doomsday warnings about still-porous borders post-9-11. Some, like the
Missouri Militia, based in the Kansas City area, have arrived in full camouflage
with semi-automatic weapons to patrol ranchers' property.

Five Missouri Militia members answered the call of Ranch Rescue, a group founded
in Texas that became the first organized civilian patrol to set up camp on the
Arizona border. The group's stated mission: to protect private ranch property.
Its approach has a more military feel to it than Simcox's group, whose members
are mainly middle-aged and elderly volunteers dressed in jeans and sitting in
camp chairs along migrant trails.

A third group in Cochise County, American Border Patrol, uses higher-tech means
to patrol the border. Founder Glenn Spencer sends up planes, unmanned drones and
infrared cameras to track and report the surge of illegal immigration that has
shifted to Arizona from his home state of California. Then he airs the video of
undocumented crossings on his Web site.

The Rev. Robert Carney is a former St. Louis resident who left town to enter the
priesthood at 43. For years, he served in parishes along the Arizona border.
Today, he runs a binational, interfaith group to promote understanding about the
reasons migrants make the illegal trek.

Some of the armed groups are more worrisome to him than others.

"I don't think we're overly concerned with Chris Simcox. He is not recognized by
any of the other vigilante groups. They kind of laugh at him, really. But there
are others who are very dangerous people that we've been concerned about from
the beginning," he said.

Carney said Ranch Rescue didn't have great numbers. "But we have people who have
gone in to see their weaponry and have been frightened by what they saw there."

Full battle garb

For a week last November, the Missouri Militia conducted patrols for Ranch
Rescue on a ranch in Douglas, Ariz., less than a mile from the border. The sight
of the volunteers in full battle garb and weapons set off a flurry of complaints
-- from the Mexican consul in Douglas to the mayor to civil rights groups.

"This is the first time we've actually seen them move to the border and set up
camp, going through maneuvers, painting faces, wearing camouflage," said Mayor
Ray Borane of Douglas, home to the nation's largest Border Patrol station. The
station is almost next door to the ranch where the Missouri Militia carried out
its maneuvers.

"Their presence was very volatile. They were right on the border. They might
have had a confrontation with drug-runners or people-smugglers or the Mexican
army. And then to what degree might it go?"

Eric Niepman, 49, a carpenter from Liberty, Mo., who drove down to the border
with four of his Missouri Militia colleagues, said he didn't know what the fuss
was about.

"I can't understand the furor over this. We're just five guys who wanted to go
down and do their patriotic duty," Niepman said. "The first thing here is the
rule of law: They're not applying to emigrate. The next thing they're doing is
trashing the owner's property. They're not all poor people. There's a lot of bad
people. Good Lord, there could have been a person come over with a 'dirty bomb,'
in this day and age."

Ranch Rescue founder Jack Foote dubbed the Douglas ranch "Camp Thu nderbird" and
used its address as the Arizona headquarters for Ranch Rescue. Then, ranch owner
Casey Nethercott was extradited to Texas to face charges of beating two
undocumented Salvadoran migrants on a ranch there; Nethercott cut ties with
Ranch Rescue in early April and had Foote evicted from the ranch.

Niepman said the group's "rules of engagement" were clear: detain illegal
crossers on the ranch until the Border Patrol showed up to arrest them, but
never point their weapons at anyone except in self-defense.

He said he never did point his gun, saying, "I didn't see anybody."

Fellow Missouri Militia member Bill Skolaut of Odessa, Mo., says he did. The
golf pro -- a teacher at William Jewell College -- said that, using his
night-vision scope, he saw more than 100 people cross the border illegally.

"There were only five that we actually confronted. At least another dozen or two
got away from us and the Border Patrol apprehended them," said Skolaut, 47, who
says the uproar over their presence was unfounded.

"Unfortunately, the word 'militia' brings fear. We are not anti-government. We
are definitely not a white supremacist group. We are concerned citizens."

California crackdowns

The civilian patrol groups all seem to share a love-hate relationship with the
Border Patrol. They like the beefed-up patrol along the borders. But they feel
nothing short of a military presence is enough, particularly in these remote
desert lands.

In the 1993 budget year, apprehensions by Border Patrol agents in the Tucson,
Ariz., area accounted for less than 8 percent of the 1.2 million arrests of
migrants crossing the Southwest border. The biggest chunk of migrants -- 44
percent -- were captured in the San Diego sector.

But the crackdowns in San Diego and El Paso, Texas, boosted the immigrant
traffic through Arizona. In the budget year that ended in September, San Diego
agents nabbed just 12 percent of the 905,065 undocum ented crossers arrested.
The Tucson sector caught 38 percent.

The arrest numbers are a rough gauge of overall illegal border traffic. And
while Simcox acknowledges the Border Patrol is catching a greater percentage of
the migrants, he insists that hundreds of thousands more elude capture, most of
them through the Arizona desert.

"Border Patrol has improved it, maybe, from catching one in five to catching one
in three. . . . But it would take a military division to seal this border," says
Simcox. "We're going to put 40,000 troops on the border of Iraq. We won't (stop)
until the president puts troops on this border."

So Simcox's group and the others are intent on embarrassing the federal
government into stepped-up enforcement. The Border Patrol presence in Arizona
has grown by leaps and bounds in recent years. Today, 2,400 Border Patrol agents
are assigned to the Tucson sector, which includes Cochise County, and to the
Yuma sector of western Arizona. That's an increase of almost 400 agents in less
than three years.

Border Patrol spokeswoman Gloria Chavez said that while the agency encouraged
citizens to report suspicious activity along the borders, "We do not encourage
citizens to take the law into their own hands. We have immigration agents and
very capable Border Patrol agents that are tasked with the responsibility of
enforcing the immigration laws of the United States."

Simcox, like the Ranch Rescue volunteers, says he's not taking the law into his
own hands. When his detractors refer to him as a "vigilante," he bristles.

"A vigilante is judge, jury and executioner," says Simcox, gaunt, even with the
omnipresent bulletproof vest he wears beneath his turtleneck. "We don't detain,
arrest or punish. All we do is assist our inept federal government."

Still, in his weekly newspaper in October 2002, Simcox called the civilian
patrol group he planned to form "a vigilance committee, a committee of
vigilantes."

He has softened his approach in other ways. The gun he used to wear open in a
holster he now wears concealed so as not to intimidate. Yet most of his
sidekicks out on the migrant trails still wear their guns in full view. They all
insist they have never removed their guns from the holsters while on patrol.

Post-9-11 call to arms

Many, like Simcox, are recent transplants from California. As a young adult,
Simcox lived in Southern Illinois, where he attended John A. Logan Junior
College and worked odd jobs at his family's businesses in Carterville. He
managed a record store at the Carbondale Mall until 1984. Then he tried his hand
as a recording engineer in New York City for two years before moving to Los
Angeles in 1986.

He had worked more than a decade as a private schoolteacher and tutor in Los
Angeles when terrorists attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. Simcox decided that his
15-year-old son should learn to use a gun, which worried his ex-wife. Within
days, she took him to court to seek full custody of their son, which a judge
granted.

"We had made a pact to always keep him away from guns because of the Los Angeles
scene, even though I packed a gun every day," Simcox says. "But after 9-11, I
told her, 'This is the point where I'm changing my pact with you, mother. The
world has changed. There's no way I can allow my son to live in this town
without preparing him to defend himself."

Simcox left LA, seeking solace by camping for three months in the borderland
desert of Arizona.

"I found heavily armed drug dealers, driving over this pristine reserve. I
encountered over 3,000 people crossing in three months, all along the border
here," Simcox says. "Here we were, three to four months following Sept. 11, and
people were just flowing across."

He eventually landed in the tourist town of Tombstone, Ariz., about 30 miles
north of the border, and bought the weekly with his retirement savings. Five
months later, in October 2002, he issued a front page "Call To Arms" to create
his civilian patrol.

Craig Howard, 58, a contractor from Brea, Calif., answered the call for personal
reasons.

"I was building a patio in Pomona. I heard Chris Simcox on a radio show saying
he was forming this neighborhood watch group to patrol the border," said Howard,
who left California to join the Civil Homeland Defense Corps. "It's hard to
compete with all those millions of Latinos. People would tell me, 'You cost too
much. I have to hire some Mexicans.' They just wanted me to fix their mistakes."

Today, Howard is among the faithful few who regularly join Simcox along the
border by Palominas. He brings along his dog, Trombone, three flashlights and
two handguns: a nine-shot revolver he calls his "sissy gun" and a .44-caliber
Magnum.

"I never had to pull 'em," Howard says.

Instead, the Civil Homeland Defense Corps members say when they come across
undocumented immigrants, they shine lights into their faces and tell them to
stop and sit down. Someone videotapes. Someone calls the Border Patrol.

Sometimes the immigrants sit and wait. Sometimes they run.

On patrol in April

Laine Lawless, 54, also came to Cochise County from California. She arrived six
months ago from the San Francisco Bay area in search of a gun-friendlier state
and a respite from liberal politics.

"If you're not a socialist, your name is poop there," said Lawless, who
plastered her truck with bumper stickers ("I Support Our Border Patrol" and
"Cowgirls: How the West was Won") and joined the Civil Homeland Defense Corps
after finding it on the Internet.

Wearing a bulletproof vest, a Browning 9 mm semi-automatic and a belt buckle
that reads "Nobody Raped a .38," Lawless has found her niche in the desert.

Her companions on patrol one night in early April included Carmen Mercer, 49, a
German immigrant who owns the OK Cafe in Tombstone, and John Stathas, 73, who
makes the 94-mile trip to the border from his Tucson home by motorcycle.

"My parents immigrated from Greece in the 1920s," said Stathas, puffing on a
pipe stuffed with cherry cavendish tobacco while eyeing the desert tra il for
undocumented immigrants. "They had to be healthy and they had to have sponsors
for five years. And then I think about what we're going through here, with free
welfare, free hospitalization for undocumenteds. If I get a catastrophic
illness, nobody's going to pay for me. I'm just furious because the government
will not seal the border."

Stathas' voice softens when he tells of the patrol that most rattled him. One
night, he surprised a group of illegal immigrants near the border. One of them,
a woman, carried an infant in her arms.

"That was so sad," he says.

There are no such encounters -- sad or otherwise -- on this April night,
however, at least for the Civil Homeland Defense Corps volunteers, who wait in
camp chairs under cover of darkness and mesquite. While their radios are abuzz
with reports of sightings by the Border Patrol, none of the migrants crosses
paths with the group.

The volunteers break patrol early at 8:30 p.m., chilled by the 60-degree air.

They will return the next evening and leave before dark, thwarted by a
thunderstorm.

"Fair-weather vigilantes," Howard jokes as the first truck prepares to leave.

Both nights, as they drive their caravan of trucks out of the rough and rutted
borderland roads, they see the same sight. As their radios crackle with news of
reported sightings of immigrants, they see the Border Patrol trucks rumble past
them, headed in the opposite direction, toward the seven strands of barbed wire.

===

Catch up with the entire immigration series online at STLtoday.com/immigration.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE/HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/Third
in a four-part series

NOTES: LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/ Series
background/ Post-Dispatch reporter Karen Branch-Brioso was one of 17 Border
Justice fellows named last fall by the University of Southern California's
Annenberg Institute for Justice and Journalism. The institute sponsored an
eight-day conference in November in towns along both sides of the U.S.-Mexican
border. The Post-Dispatch assumed the balance of the costs for this report,
which looks at the impact of stepped-up border security on immigrants in the St.
Louis area./ This series in one instance uses a pseudonym and in others uses
real names but omits surnames to protect the identities of immigrants who are in
the United States illegally. These were the only conditions under which these
immigrants would be interviewed. Actual names are used for immigrants here
legally, and for family members in Mexico./ This is the third in a four-part
series/ Sunday: SOLUTIONS-POLITICS / Missouri and Illinois employers are hiring
thousands of foreign workers for low-wage temporary jobs, but here and
nationwide the demand has far outstripped the legal limits. A look at the
controversy over proposals to legalize more workers./ Reporter Karen
Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, PHOTO, MAP(5) Graphic / map by POST-DISPATCH/ (Map shows state
of Arizona with location of Cochise County.) ; PHOTOS BY HUY RICHARD MACH /
Post-Dispatch/ (1) Color Photo - Chris Simcox, founder of a volunteer group that
tries to catch immigrants from Mexico and send them back across the border,
keeps watch in Cochise County, Ariz., one Friday night last month./ (2) PHOTO -
Civil Homeland Defense Corps founder Chris Simcox (left) and volunteer Craig
Howard find a stash of bottled water and plastic bags under some old blankets
near the San Pedro River in Arizona while patrolling for undocumented immigrants
near the Mexican border last month./ (3) PHOTO - Cochise County Sheriff Larry A.
Dever talks about U.S.-Mexico border issues at a meeting in the county last
month. Jim Cooper (left) is chairman of the county Democratic committee. Dever
said increased migrant traffic and drug smugglers had led to a "degradation of
the quality of life."/ (4) PHOTO - Border watcher Craig Howard (left) carries a
.22-caliber handgun as he and Chris Simcox check the ground for fresh footprints
in Cochise County, Ariz., last month.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              58 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 20, 2004 Sunday Three Star Edition

Border Patrol unit makes arrests inland in California

BYLINE: BEN FOX

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: ONTARIO, Calif.


Elidia Celestina peered from behind a window shade before opening the door a
crack to a stranger. If she leaves her apartment at all these days, it is only
for a rushed, nerve-racking trip to the store.

"Everyone is afraid," said Celestina, 19, who came from Mexico five months ago.
"We're like mice, hiding in our homes."

She and many other illegal immigrants in Southern California have been gripped
by fear since a new Border Patrol unit began roving through Hispanic communities
and making arrests well north of the border, beyond the agency's usual area of
operations.

Since June 1, the unit has captured more than 420 suspected illegal immigrants.
They have been picked up on the street, pulled over while driving, or caught
coming out of stores in communities 100 miles or more from the Mexican border.

The raids have spread such fear that some people have stopped going shopping or
attending church. Immigrant advocates say some are staying home from work, too.

California is home to an estimated 2 million illegal immigrants, more than any
other state. The border itself is patrolled aggressively. But for years, illegal
immigrants who reach the interior, often at great cost and danger, have faced
little risk of arrest.

"It does appear to be a shift in tactics," said Shaheena Ahmad Simons, a Los
Angeles attorney with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund.
"These sweeps have created a pervasive fear and even anger among Latinos
regardless of their immigration status."

While the Border Patrol has employed what it refers to as roving units in the
past, it had not used them recently, said Mario Villarreal, an agency spokesman
in Washington.

Villarreal would not say exactly why the Border Patrol has started the inland
sweeps.

The Border Patrol has the legal authority to make arrests inland but
traditionally operates close to the border, and it employs checkpoints instead
of roving patrols. It is immigration agents, from a different agency altogether,
who generally make arrests inland.

The Mobile Patrol Group consists of 12 agents based at a station in Temecula,
about 55 miles from the border. The Temecula team roams across some 3,000 square
miles.

Border Patrol officials said it makes arrests only when it has information about
the presence of illegal immigrants.

"If you're here legally in the United States, you really don't have anything to
worry about," said Raul Martinez, a Border Patrol spokesman.

Nevertheless, immigrant activists contend agents have violated people's rights
by questioning Hispanics without probable cause.

"In Southern California, there are many people who appear to be of Mexican
ancestry. That does not mean they are here illegally," said Simons, whose
organization is considering a legal challenge.

Throughout the region, the arrests have set off rumors and panic.

Alerts, often false, about "la migra" checkpoints (Spanish slang for immigration
officials) have become as common as traffic reports on Spanish-language radio.
Activists have organized marches and protests. Local politicians have called
immigration officials, demanding answers. Shops and restaurants in Hispanic
neighborhoods say their business has plummeted because many illegal immigrants
are staying close to home.

"We're just waiting for the moment when it's going to get us. We're terrified,"
said Luis Paredes, 28, a construction worker in Escondido, 50 miles north of the
border. He and his wife go out only to work or to buy groceries. And they stick
together when they do so, for fear one will be deported without the other.

On June 4, the Border Patrol unit went north to the San Bernardino County city
of Ontario, about 100 miles from Mexico, and captured 79 illegal immigrants.
Among them were Celestina's husband and his two brothers, who were caught as
they headed to a job unloading trucks. A day later, the patrol arrested 75
people in Corona, about 80 miles from the border.

Nearly all those captured are Mexican, with a few from Central America. The vast
majority have agreed to be released just across the border, in Tijuana, rather
than await a deportation hearing.

The area around Escondido, which means "hidden" in Spanish, has been hardest hit
by the patrol, with 268 people arrested as of Thursday.

In a commercial district frequented by Hispanics, witnesses said Border Patrol
agents cornered people at a laundry and a supermarket.

Beatriz Ramirez, who runs a money-transfer business, said the number of people
using her service to send cash to families in Latin America has dropped to one
or two per day, down from 20.

"It's become a ghost street," she said.

Teodulo Ruiz Perez, who is from Mexico and works at a car wash, said: "We're
just here working. What harm are we doing? Is it a sin to work?"

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

GRAPHIC: map and photo; (1) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Ricardo Moreno, with
microphone, leads a protest last week in Ontario, Calif., over a new U.S. Border
Patrol unit that has apprehended more than 420 people in three Southern
California counties since June 1. (2) Map by

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              59 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 27, 2004 Sunday Three Star Edition

Border Patrol tests drones to spot would-be immigrants

BYLINE: AMANDA LEE MYERS The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: FORT HUACHUCA, Ariz.


The Border Patrol launched an unmanned drone Friday that uses thermal and
night-vision equipment to help agents spot illegal immigrants trying to cross
the desert into the United States.

The stepped-up surveillance is part of a mission that officials hope will stem
the tide of illegal immigrants that has made Arizona the busiest illegal entry
point along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico.

The Department of Homeland Security, which is funding the program, also plans to
test the drones in northern states, over the Great Lakes and in Puerto Rico,
said Robert Smith, head of the Customs and Border Protection's unmanned aerial
drone program.

The two drones being used in the Arizona project can detect movement from 15
miles away, read a license plate, view a vehicle's occupants and even detect
weapons, officials said.

Roger Maier, a spokesman for Customs and Border Protection, confirmed that one
of the remotely piloted Hermes 450 drones in the project started flying Friday.

Both drones were expected to go into regular use on Monday. They will fly 56
hours a week and can be used over preprogrammed flight paths or be piloted by
remote control to check out specific destinations.

The drones weigh almost 1,000 pounds, have a 35-foot wingspan and can fly faster
than 100 mph. They will patrol at 12,000 to 15,000 feet, and can stay aloft for
20 hours at a time.

The overall cost of the mission is estimated to be at least $10 million, with
the government spending about $4 million on the drones.

Pilots on the ground will remotely control them unless the flight is
preprogrammed, with another agent interpreting the images and sending agents to
respond to what the drones detect. It takes 12 to 18 people to operate the
drones and monitor the images they send back, officials said.

The drones' mission ends Sept. 30, when it will be assessed to determine the
future of drones with the Border Patrol.

Border Patrol agents catch hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants trying to
cross Arizona's sprawling, cactus-covered deserts each year. The agency had
recorded more than 330,000 apprehensions since Oct. 1 in the Border Patrol's
Tucson sector, which covers most of the Arizona border.

Officials hope the drones will deter immigrants from crossing and will enable
agents to better help people in distress.

Kat Rodriguez, an organizer for the human rights group Coalicion de Derechos
Humanos, said changing U.S. border policy rather than increasing patrols is key
to protecting lives.

"It's like throwing an infant in a pool and then jumping in and saving it. You
act like the hero in a situation you created," she said.

The Hermes 450s, which Israel uses to patrol its frontiers, join a number of
unmanned aerial vehicles being used in the United States.

Remote-controlled planes help gather data for environmental studies and patrol
Western skies on wildfire watch. In Alaska, the Coast Guard is also testing a
drone this summer for fisheries patrols and other uses.

Drones called Predators have also been successful in U.S. military and CIA
operations. Missiles fired from Predators have killed al-Qaida operatives in
Afghanistan and Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - The U.S. Border Patrol's unmanned
drone uses thermal and night-vision equipment to help agents see illegal
immigrants trying to cross the desert into Arizona. Pilots on the ground will
remotely control them unless the flight is preprogrammed, with another agent
interpreting the images and sending agents to respond to what the drones detect.
It takes 12 to 18 people to operate the drones and monitor the images they send
back, officials said.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              60 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 29, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 436 words


SACRAMENTO, Calif. State's "garage sale" brings about $80,000 Thousands of
bargain hunters flocked to a California state garage sale Saturday, snapping up
unwanted property from confiscated penknives to cut-price laptop computers. Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger staged the two-day sale in Sacramento, which started on
Friday, to highlight his efforts to trim the fat from state government.

The sale attracted from 6,000 to 7,000 people and fetched almost $80,000, which
will be returned to the state's general fund, according to the California
Department of General Services.

Some items at the sale, like Swiss army knives, were confiscated at airports
though much of what was on offer, such as laptop computers --which sold for as
little as $20 -- was surplus government property.

SAN FRANCISCO Governor rejects licenses for illegals California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger will veto legislation that would allow nearly 2 million illegal
immigrants who pass criminal background checks to obtain drivers licenses, a
spokeswoman said Saturday.

The California Legislature approved the bills Friday, the final day of the
legislative session, to allow illegal immigrants to apply for drivers licenses.

The measures included provisions such as requiring illegal immigrants to pay for
fingerprint background checks. But Margita Thompson, a spokeswoman for the
governor, said Schwarzenegger would veto it because it still did not provide
enough guarantees to prevent would-be terrorists from entering the state and
creating new identities.

LISBON, Ohio Flooding tears houses from foundations Flood waters rushed through
rural Ohio east of Canton on Saturday, ripping houses from their foundations and
tearing a 65-foot deep crater in a road, authorities said.

The storm also contributed to a traffic collision that killed a couple on the
Ohio Turnpike south of Youngstown. David and Laura Martin, both 50, died when
their car ran off the road in heavy rain, crossed the median and hit a truck
filled with gravel in the oncoming lanes.

One man whose home was carried off was found unharmed in a tree, authorities
said.

"One minute the creek was rising slowly, and the next minute it was a total
disaster," Columbiana County Sheriff David Smith said.

Several homes were pulled off their foundations, forcing about 60 people to seek
shelter at a high school in Lisbon, Smith said.

The rushing water left a hole about 65 feet deep and 125 feet wide in a road
near Salem, and a car that plunged into the crater landed on its top in a creek.
The two people inside the car were not hurt, police said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              61 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 5, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

JUDGE SETS ANOTHER HEARING IN DEPORTATION OF ST. LOUIS MAN/ CHANGES IN LAW ON
CITIZENSHIP COMPLICATE IMMIGRATION CASE

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 750 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, TEXAS


Andres Morales may already be a U.S. citizen. Or he may not. The answer could
decide whether the part-owner of a restaurant in Florissant ever gets to come
home to the only life he has known.

An immigration judge in Laredo deferred a decision Tuesday while the Department
of Homeland Security considers exactly what the law said at the time Morales'
parents were naturalized. Morales, 25, remained in a detention center at the
border.

Under current law, an unmarried child under 18 would automatically b ecome a
citizen by living with a parent who earned citizenship. Morales fits that. But
terms of the law have changed over the years.

If Morales turns out to be a citizen, the law under which he was detained last
month - which calls for deportation of permanent resident aliens involved even
in some relatively minor crimes - would not apply.

Morales, a graduate of Hazelwood West High School who has lived in the U.S.
since age 1, was detained March 26 upon returning from a visit to Mexico, where
he was born and has relatives.

Immigration authorities found that he had pleaded guilty to a 1997 charge of
possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, and received a sentence of
probation in St. Louis County that by its terms was later wiped from the public
record.

But for immigration purposes, it still is considered a conviction for an
"aggravated felony," which requires deportation, officials said.

Morales' detention - which came as he returned home from attending a cousin's
wedding in Guadalajara - exemplifies the kind of cases that some immigration
attorneys claim are harsh, and unnecessarily tearing families apart.

The Department of Homeland Security has stepped up its efforts to deport aliens
who commit crimes. The crackdown came after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001,
spurred criticism that enforcement had been far too lax.

Morales' attorney, Guadalupe Ruiz, argued in Tuesday's hearing that Andres is
not just a legal permanent resident, but in fact became a citizen at the same
time as his parents.

His mother became a U.S. citizen in 1986, when Andres was about 8, and his
father became a citizen later, Ruiz told the judge. Ruiz asked that Morales be
ruled a citizen.

Yet the judge, Susan Castro, questioned Ruiz about exactly how old Andr es was
when his parents became naturalized. She noted the relevant law has changed in
recent years.

Under current law, a child automatically becomes a U.S. citizen if that child is
in the custody of a parent who becomes a citizen before the child turns 18, said
David Leopold, an attorney who is on the board of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

However, that law took effect only in 2001. Previously, the law generally
required both parents to be naturalized citizens before the child's 18th
birthday, Leopold noted. Morales' father, since deceased, became a citizen in
1999, when the son would have been about 20.

In the hearing, the judge said it would be up to Homeland Security to decide on
Andres' assertion of citizenship.

"Based on the information you've given me, it doesn't sound like he's eligible,"
the judge told Ruiz. She set another hearing for May 18.

Tuesday's session took place via videoconferencing. The judge, Ruiz and a
government lawyer were in San Antonio; Morales was in a room at the detention
center in Laredo.

Morales runs a restaurant in Florissant, the Pueblo Nuevo, with his mother,
Bertha Morales, who traveled to Laredo for the hearing. She and an aunt and
uncle of his sat behind him at the proceeding.

"It doesn't sound good, does it?" Bertha Morales said after emerging from the
hearing room. "If they don't find him a citizen, they're going to deport him.
That's the bottom line."

She lamented not pressing her son to file for citizenship: "I already had the
application filled out and everything." She said her late husband was very
patriotic toward Mexico and always insisted that the children make that decision
on their own.

His uncle Emiliano Morales and aunt Maria de Jesus de Morales, drove 14 hours
from Guadalajara to provide support.

Andres Morales could choose to return to freedom in Mexico, rather than wait in
detention, but doing so would mean dropping his application to re-enter the
country, said Rick Cortez, an officer at the detention center.

Now, the same agency that is seeking to deport Andres is poised to decide
whether to grant him citizenship. Said Bertha Morales, "It's scary, but I guess
it's the way it has to be."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle/ E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-621-5804



CORRECTION:
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Thursday, May 6, 2004: The Pueblo Nuevo restaurant is in
Hazelwood. Stories in the main news section Tuesday and Wednesday about the
immigration problems of Andres Morales, whose family operates the restaurant,
gave the wrong location.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Andres) Morales, Held in detention

TYPE: PROFILE/ANDRES MORALES

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              62 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 24, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

FLORIDA CITRUS CONTRACTORS GET LENGTHY PRISON TERMS FOR ENSLAVING FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Three citrus contractors have been sentenced to long prison terms for enslaving
undocumented farm workers, threatening them with violence and holding them
hostage over alleged debts.

The three men were convicted in June of involuntary servitude, harb oring
undocumented workers, interfering with interstate commerce by extortion and
using a firearm.

Brothers Ramiro and Juan Ramos employed more than 700 farm laborers, many of
them undocumented immigrants from Mexico.

They each were sentenced Wednesday to 12 years and three months in prison and
must forfeit real estate and personal property worth $3 million. Their cousin,
Jose Ramos, was sentenced to 10 years, three months in prison.

Defense attorney Joaquin Perez said the Ramoses were scapegoats for a larger
industry-wide problem.

"The whole thing is a farce," he said. "They are victims in this case because
growers and other members of the industry have their heads buried in the sand."

The FBI and Border Patrol investigated after the Coalition for Immokalee
Workers, in southwest Florida's farming region, called attention to the abuses.

Staff member Julia Perkins said it was the fifth case that resulted in
convictions on similar slavery charges in as many years. She accused the state
agriculture industry of looking the other way as contractors employ illegal
aliens who have few rights.

"We hope that it will send a message that it's time for these abuses to stop,"
Perkins said. "The agriculture industry is complicit in some way."

State agriculture department spokesman Terrence McElroy said the industry should
not be blamed for the actions of a few.

"Most Florida growers treat farm workers fairly," he said. "It obviously is
outrageous conduct, and to suggest that it is condoned is unfair."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 2, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

EAST EUROPEAN POOR FIND ILLEGAL JOBS, EXPLOITATION, IN AMERICA

BYLINE: William J. Kole The Associated Press AP Reporters Karel Janicek In
Prague, Karl Peter Kirk In Budapest, Alexandar S. Dragicevic In Sarajevo And
Veselin Toshkov In Sofia Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G1

LENGTH: 1533 words

DATELINE: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC


* Investigation sheds light on contractors who lure people for illegal menial
jobs, only to skim their paychecks.

Former nightclub bouncer Martin Opat is a tough guy by trade, but nothing
steeled him for the ordeal he endured as an illegal worker in the United States.

"Everything they told me was a lie," he said of the shady middlemen who promised
him tax-free cash to sweep supermarket floors, only to lead him on a
pocket-emptying odyssey through three states and a close call with federal
agents.

Thousands of poor eastern Europeans are being exploited by unscrupulous
contractors who lure them to America for illegal menial jobs, only to skim their
paychecks and subject them to arrest and deportation, an Associated Press
investigation has found.

Recent raids at 60 Wal-Mart stores across the United States, and the subsequent
arrests of 300 allegedly illegal workers -- including 35 Czechs and others from
the former Soviet bloc -- underscore a troubling trend that has widened since
the collapse of communism a dozen years ago.

"Every second person who buys a plane ticket to the United States at my agency
goes there to make money," said Tomas Rambousek, a Czech travel agent who admits
to arranging illegal work at hotels and supermarkets for his countrymen and says
U.S. companies have approached him for help.

"I would say that the U.S. authorities turn a blind eye," he said, refusing to
identify the companies involved.

There's a dark side. Former illegal workers described working long hours for
little pay and no benefits at menial cleaning jobs, and recounted humiliating
experiences with their handlers that prompted some to return home feeling
disillusioned and deceived.

Most, like Opat, traveled on tourist visas that forbid seeking work. They found
jobs through subcontracting companies run by a network of eastern European
immigrants who didn't flinch at taking a sizable cut of their earnings.

After shelling out $1,300 on a visa, plane tickets and health insurance, Opat,
29, arrived in Dallas in 2000 to be told by a local Czech contact that the job
he was assured would earn him up to $1,900 a month sweeping an unidentified
supermarket in Tulsa, Okla., that didn't exist.

He was driven to tiny Poteau, Ark., for another supermarket job, where he was
warned that the FBI and the immigration officers had just raided apartments for
foreigners in a nearby town.

"I felt helpless," he said. "It was terrible. But what could I do?"

Even worse, Opat said, was learning that his Czech contact, known to him only as
Mr. Vavra, wouldn't pay him for three months - and that a $500 commission, a
$500 security deposit and $170 in rent would be deducted from his first check.

"I wanted to knock him out," Opat said with his bouncer's bravado. Instead, he
headed north to Chicago - home to an estimated 10,000 illegal Czech immigrants -
and landed an under-the-table job as a roofer.

Despite numerous such stories, there's no shortage of Czechs willing to take
their chances rather than eke out a living in a country with 10 percent
joblessness and an average monthly wage of just $585.

As many as 200,000 Czechs are believed to be living illegally in the United
States, a ranking Western official told AP, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Hundreds more arrive daily, even though U.S. consular authorities now interview
all applicants for tourist visas, which allow multiple 3-month stays for 10
years, and turn down many requests, the official said.

"The law presumes the person applying for a visa has immigrant intent," he said.

Czech authorities are doing little to crack down, saying it's essentially an
American problem. It is not against the law to recruit locals for work in the
United States, the Czech attorney general's office said.

Conservative estimates put the number of people who have left eastern Europe in
recent years at 2 million. Officials say the real number easily could be twice
that.

In Bulgaria, still struggling to establish a market economy after shaking off
communism in 1989, an astonishing 700,000 young people have left for the United
States and western Europe, according to government estimates.

A recent U.N. survey in Bosnia, stung by 40 percent unemployment, points up the
sense of desperation: Six in 10 young people said they'd leave if they could.

Among those trying to cash in on that sentiment is Suno Tours, a Sarajevo travel
agency working with a Turkish firm, Pro Visa Group-Istanbul. The companies claim
to be able to obtain U.S. immigration visas in Turkey - even though only the
U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo can issue visas to Bosnians.

An AP reporter, visiting Suno Tours office this week, was told there was no need
to go to the embassy for a visa. "They have nothing to do with it," said a woman
employee who refused to give her name.

Although Mexicans accounted for most of last week's Wal-Mart arrests, others
came from 18 different nations, including 22 from Mongolia and 20 from Brazil.

The workers were paid between $6 and $8 an hour to mop floors and clean toilets.
It's work that few Americans are willing to do, but which the poor from
developing countries happily accept.

Across eastern Europe, newspapers run ads with eye-catching headlines like
"USA!!" and enticing photos of Las Vegas or the Florida Keys, where work is said
to await.

Recruiters also heavily use the Internet. A typical Web pitch posted in Hungary
shows how workers are on their own when it comes to legal documentation.

"We give you a minimum of eight hours of work a day, plus the option of overtime
or a second job," the ad reads. "Unfortunately, it can happen that the
immigration agency stops people and questions them, and in the worst case turns
back tourists."

It's a chance many take, only to regret it later when recruiters extract fees
that can range from $500 to $2,500 and pocket a percentage of their pay. More
than 160 messages by people who said they'd been burned were on a
Hungarian-language Web forum this week.

Yet, illegals keep coming in droves to America's shores, drawn by the promise of
earning sums unimaginable in nations with economies wrecked by decades of war or
communist-era neglect.

Working a typical 60-hour week, even those paid just $6 an hour earn $18,000 a
year, tax-free because the income isn't declared. After two years, many save
enough to start a small business back home, said Radek Adamec, a Czech
journalist tracking the phenomenon.

"They're not criminals," he said. "American companies don't care who's cleaning
at night. Nobody really cares, and why should they? Only the INS cares."

Not true, the Western official insists, dismissing the notion that illegal
foreigners are merely doing work spurned by most Americans.

"It's not harmless," he said. "They're taking jobs from Americans. These are not
just cleaning jobs. There are textile jobs, ski industry jobs at Vail. I've seen
it all."

The story of Opat the ex-bouncer, meanwhile, has a happy ending - if not a legal
one.

He made $150 a day on his illegal roofing job in Chicago, and "in two months, I
earned more money than I'd have gotten from Mr. Vavra in a year." He and his
wife now have a daughter, and he said he's considering returning to the United
States.

But Opat remains haunted by his ordeal.

"I recently saw an ad in the newspaper - the same one I answered," he said. "So
... be careful."

= = = =

Tough times

Facts about some eastern European countries:

ALBANIA

Unemployment: Officially 15 percent, unofficially at least 30 percent.

Average monthly income: $185

Emigrants: No official statistics on number of emigrants, but thousands have
left since communism ended in 1990.

BOSNIA

Unemployment: Officially 40 percent, unofficially 60 percent.

Average monthly income: $240

Emigrants: No statistics on emigration, but estimates run to tens of thousands
over recent years.

BULGARIA

Unemployment: Officially 13 percent, unofficially, 20 percent.

Average monthly income: $170

Emigrants: An estimated 700,000 Bulgarians left in recent years.

CROATIA

Unemployment: About 20 percent.

Average monthly income: $700

Emigrants: No statistics on emigration, but thousands believed to have gone
since 1991.

CZECH REPUBLIC

Unemployment: 10 percent, pockets of 20 percent or more in rural areas.

Average monthly income: $585

Emigrants: No statistics on emigrants; officials estimate 100,000-200,000 live
illegally in United States alone.

HUNGARY

Unemployment 5.7 percent, substantially higher in rural areas.

Average monthly income: $590

Emigrants: No statistics on emigration.

MOLDOVA

Unemployment: Officially 8 percent, unofficially 10 percent.

Average monthly income: $60

Emigrants: An estimated 600,000 people left in recent years.

ROMANIA

Unemployment: Officially 6.6 percent, unofficially substantially higher.

Average monthly income: $140

Emigrants: More than 400,000 emigrants in recent years.

SERBIA-MONTENEGRO

Unemployment: Officially 25 percent, unofficially at least 35 percent.

Average monthly income: $180

Emigrants: About 300,000 emigrants in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP(2) The Associated Press Graphic/map - Getting
caught while working illegally
On Thursday, Oct. 23, federal officials arrested more than 300 illegal workers
at 60 Wal-Mart stores across the country.
RAIDED WAL-MART LOCATION
(Map of the United States showing locations of raids in the following states:)
Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West
Virginia ; (1) ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Slovakian student Eva Pauerova, 18,
searches the Internet from her computer in Bratislava, Slovakia, for possible
job openings in the United States.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              64 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              March 31, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

BILL WOULD LET ILLEGAL ALIENS DRIVE LEGALLY IN ILLINOIS/ CRITICS SAY MEASURE MAY
LEAD TO MORE FRAUD

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 970 words


On any given day, Juan Francisco Aparicio will drive his children to the
doctor's office, his wife to the grocery and himself to work. Yet, he doesn't
have a drivers license.

He can't apply for one because he doesn't have a Social Security card, which he
can't get because he is not a legal resident. He moved to Illinois seven years
ago from Sacatecas, Mexico, and, like hundreds of thousands of undocumented
workers who lack a license, drives a car anyway. Every day.

"Everyone does it. They have to," said Aparicio, 31, who works at a nursery in
Albers.

The Illinois House is scheduled to take up a bill today that would allow people
without Social Security numbers to apply for special drivers licenses. The bill
is similar to measures introduced in previous legislative sessions, but
supporters say this year's version has added several provisions to address
security concerns.

Similar legislation in Missouri, which has about 25,000 to 50,000 undocumented
immigrants according to some estimates, failed to thrive in recent years. The
issue continues to be a priority some state lawmakers, but no formal proposal
has been introduced this session.

Under the Illinois bill, HB4003, at least 300,000 undocumented immigrants in
Illinois could be eligible to apply for the special licenses, said the measure's
chief sponsor, Rep. Edward Acevedo, D-Chicago.

The bill, supporters say, would allow undocumented workers to learn rudimentary
driving safety rules. It also could help lower automobile insurance rates by
slashing the number of uninsured drivers on the road because, theoretically, new
license recipients could finally obtain insurance.

"The people that we're speaking of drive their vehicles anyway," Acevedo said.
"You have people who now need to go and take a driving test. They have to know
the rules of the road. They have to have insurance."

Chiquita Vega-Laruy, an insurance broker in St. Louis, said she gets calls daily
from undocumented immigrants who lack a drivers license but are seeking auto
insurance anyway. "They all have been trying to do the right thing," she said.

Opponents to the measure don't buy that argument, saying that anyone who buys
auto insurance can drop their policy immediately after getting an insurance
card.

Brian R. Perryman, former director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
district office in Chicago, also said there is no guarantee that such drivers
would obey the law when it comes to traffic altercations.

"You're encouraging illegal immigration to Missouri and Illinois and other
states that might consider doing this, because they know they can get a valid
identity document, which can then become a breeder document for counterfeit
identities," Perryman said. He called the idea of issuing the special licenses
"a tremendous mistake."

Under the bill, applicants must have a tax identification number and agree to
relinquish any bogus identification cards they have. They also would be
fingerprinted, undergo a criminal background check and pay a $15 surcharge to
cover administrative costs. The licenses would look different than a regular
card, although just how would be determined by the s ecretary of state's office.

If Illinois eventually passes the law, it would join Michigan, New Mexico, North
Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, Utah, Washington, and Wisconsin as states with
similar legislation, according to the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights. California was on that list until Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger
repealed the measure last year.

Dave Gorak, executive director of the Midwest Coalition to Reduce Immigration,
said his organization opposes the bill because it encourages undocumented
immigrants to remain in the country illegally.

"We are a nation of laws, or we are not, and there is no middle ground. This is
about the rule of law, not about making life easier for criminals, and illegal
aliens are criminals," he said.

Josh Hoyt, executive director for the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, disagreed.

"It's not like they like living in the shadows or having to purchase fraudulent
ID. They do what they need to for survival, but they are, by and large,
hardworking, law-abiding people who would much prefer to be, as much as they
can, living inside the law," he said. "People who would voluntarily go in and
get fingerprinted, get photographed, give their home address, prove who they
are, even knowing that probably increases their risk of deportation - you have
to figure those are basically pretty law-abiding people."

Pedro, who works with Aparicio at the same nursery, said many people like
himself drive constantly, though they don't have a license.

"What choice do people have? It's something we have to do," he said through a
translator.

Aparicio said getting a drivers license would help take away some of the anxiety
that he and others like himself feel while on the road.

"It would be important to get at least a drivers license so you can drive
without fear of being stopped by police," he said through a translator during a
break from work recently. "It would be safer. Although we drive with caution, we
would drive with more caution if we had a license."

Lynda Callon, co-coordinator for Missourians for Safer Roads, said "99.9
percent" of the undocumented immigrants she works with at her Kansas City day
laborers site do not pose a threat to anyone.

"The driver license merely lets them go to the work, which they're already
doing, go to the grocery store, which they're already doing, take the kids to
doctors and dentists and school and church, just like everybody else," she said.
"Not having a drivers license has never stopped one person from driving if they
wanted to drive, ever."

===

Read the entire bill online at STLtoday.com/links.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Eun-Kyung Kim/ E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-340-8116

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2004



CORRECTION:
The name of the Mexico city Zacatecas was misspelled in this story about special
drivers licenses for illegal immigrants.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by JERRY NAUNHEIM / POST-DISPATCH - Juan Francisco
Aparicio of Damiansville feeds his daughter Stephanie, 6 months, while her
sister Martha, 1, stays close by on Tuesday. Aparicio's wife, Rose Hilda
Aparicio, was visiting a social service agency in Carlyle. This is one of the
types of errands Juan Aparicio drives on, although he doesn't have a license.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              65 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 31, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

GOV. BUSH IS ENCOURAGED TO ASK BROTHER TO ORDER HAITIANS' RELEASE;
 CONGRESSWOMAN SAYS THEY SHOULD BE TREATED LIKE CUBAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Alex Veiga The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A congresswoman pressed Gov. Jeb Bush on Wednesday to ask his brother, the
president, to order the release of more than 200 Haitian immigrants detained in
Florida after they jumped off a freighter and waded ashore.

The Republican governor was confronted during a campaign stop by Rep. Carrie
Meek, D-Fla., who said the Haitians should be treated like Cuban immigrants.

"All you have to do is call - the 'wet foot-dry foot' policy would take effect,"
Meek said.

Normally, Cuban immigrants are allowed to remain in the United States if they
reach land, while those intercepted at sea are returned.

The governor said he agrees Haitian immigrants should be released until their
asylum request is heard, like immigrants from other countries.

"Haitians should be treated in the same fashion that Jamaicans, people from the
Bahamas, people from any country in the world," Bush said.

A day earlier, the governor said he had called White House officials regarding
the immigrants, but he did not elaborate Wednesday or say whether he had spoken
with his brother.

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said the Haitians were being treated fairly
and humanely and that the president would not intervene.

The 50-foot wooden freighter carrying 211 Haitians and three Dominicans ran
aground Tuesday on a stretch of beach near a road south of downtown Miami. Six
Haitian nationals were charged with illegal smuggling.

The Haitian immigrants included 150 men, 35 women and 26 juveniles, INS
spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez said. One of the minors was hospitalized for
dehydration.

Gonzalez would not say whether any of the immigrants had asked for asylum.

The immigrants' detention sparked protests by Haitian-Americans who said U.S.
laws discriminate by favoring other immigrants - particularly Cubans.

Jean Robert Lafortune, president of the Haitian-American Grassroots Coalition,
said the detention poses a leadership test for Gov. Bush. "If Bush could
champion the issue, he could shift the balance in the election," Lafortune said.
"The time for lip service is over."

Bill McBride, the Democratic nominee for governor, released a letter to
President Bush asking him to order the Haitians' release. He also took to
Haitian-American airwaves.

"We should not have one set of rules apply to one set of people and one set of
rules to apply to Haitians," McBride said during a call Wednesday to WSRF-AM in
Fort Lauderdale.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE TWO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elvina Joseph (second from
left) is overcome with emotion as Florida Gov. Jeb Bush leaves Miami's Little
Haiti after a campaign stop Wednesday. The group seeks the release of about 200
Haitians.; (2) Photo headshot - Gov. Jeb Bush said he agrees Haitian immigrants
should be released until their asylum request is heard.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             February 6, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 643 words


WASHINGTON

Pigs may have become food after genetic study

Pigs that were supposed to be destroyed after a genetic engineering study may
have entered the nation's food supply, federal health officials said Wednesday -
although they insisted the incident posed no risk to people's health.

The Food and Drug Administration said it was investigating whether scientists at
the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana violated regulations requiring
them to destroy all pigs involved in the research. Instead, the university may
have sent 386 of the animals to a livestock dealer who in turn may have sent
them to slaughter, the FDA said.

The research involved increasing pigs' natural levels of some growth proteins
present in meat, said FDA Deputy Commissioner Lester Crawford. Also, none of the
pigs genetically manipulated were sold; it was their offspring, which
purportedly passed multiple tests verifying that the piglets hadn't inherited
changed genes.

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn.

Immigrant smuggling trial against Tyson begins

A greed-driven, nationwide conspiracy helped Tyson Foods and some of its top
executives keep poultry plants running by putting illegal workers on production
lines, a federal prosecutor said Wednesday at the opening of the company's
immigrant smuggling trial.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John MacCoon told jurors he would prove that the
conspiracy started in 1994 after plant managers had difficulty hiring legal
production workers with the company's low wages. He said the evidence would show
that the immigration conspiracy went to Tyson's top levels, where it was
encouraged because it boosted profits.

Tyson's attorney, Tom Green, said any hiring of illegal immigrants was done by a
few plant managers and was not known to executives at Tyson headquarters in
Springdale, Ark.

RALEIGH, N.C.

Court voids death sentence because of racial issue

A federal appeals court Wednesday overturned the death sentence of a black man
convicted of killing a white trooper, saying prosecutors tried to keep blacks
off the jury.

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals sent the case of Timothy Allen back to
district court, which could either hear the race claim or order a new trial.
Allen was convicted by a jury of six whites and six blacks in the 1985 shooting
death of Trooper Raymond Worley during a traffic stop on Interstate 95 near
Enfield in northeastern North Carolina.

The appeals court, based in Richmond, Va., said statistical and circumstantial
evidence showed prosecutors used 11 of 13 peremptory challenges to reject
prospective black jurors. A peremptory challenge is a legal objection that
allows lawyers to dismiss a prospective juror without giving a reason.

WESTMINSTER, Colo.

Boy fires shots in dispute at high school, police say

A boy fired several shots in a Ranum High School courtyard Wednesday after
confronting another student in a hallway, authorities said. No injuries were
reported.

A police officer assigned to the school chased the boy and captured him nearby,
Adams County sheriff's Capt. Craig Coleman said. The boy and a 15-year-old
student were involved in a confrontation in the hallway. The two went out into a
school courtyard, where the boy pulled out a small semi-automatic handgun,
authorities said. The older student and two others in the courtyard ran inside
as the boy fired at least four shots, hitting the building's facade twice,
authorities said.

The 14-year-old boy, who is a freshman at Ranum, was taken to a juvenile
detention center.

NEW YORK

Chess champion ties computer in fifth game

World chess champion Garry Kasparov and computer opponent Deep Junior tied the
fifth game of their Man versus Machine series, playing just 19 moves.

The six-game series remains tied at 2 1/2 games apiece. The final game of the
match - which could end in a draw - is set for Friday.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION; NATIONAL FOCUS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              67 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 23, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest Column; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 664 words


COLOMBIA

Government troops battle rebels, killing at least 29

Government troops killed at least 29 rebels in a two-day battle in eastern
Colombia, the defense minister said Thursday.

One government soldier was killed and two others were wounded in the fighting in
Vichada, a major cocaine-producing state on the Venezuelan border, Defense
Minister Martha Lucia Ramirez said in Bogota.

"What's important here is that the security forces are inserting themselves in
the heart of drug trafficking," she told reporters.

The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known by its Spanish acronym FARC,
and a smaller leftist rebel army have been fighting the Colombian government for
nearly 40 years. They traffic drugs and kidnap civilians to finance their fight.

Also Thursday, police arrested the mayor of a rural town in Tolima state and
seven other people on charges of having ties to FARC.

MEXICO

Bodies of migrants are flown home for burial

The bodies of 11 of 19 illegal migrants who died after being locked in a
sweltering truck trailer and abandoned in South Texas arrived in Mexico City
late Thursday.

Mexican air force personnel unloaded the white and brown metal coffins from a
C-130 Hercules transport plane and put them in hearses. The bodies were then
brought to the military wing of Mexico City's international airport, where it
appeared a small group of relatives had gathered to claim them. Later the bodies
were to be flown to the victims' hometowns for burial.

The trailer was discovered at a truck stop outside Victoria, Texas, on May 14,
hours after smugglers helped the illegal migrants across the border, then locked
them in the trailer. At least 13 were Mexican while the other six victims were
either from Central America or had yet to be identified.

BRITAIN

Convictions are voided for nine Afghan hijackers

Nine Afghan men jailed for hijacking a plane from Kabul to London to escape a
Taliban death squad won an appeal against their convictions Thursday.

Ali Safi and his brother Mohammed, who were jailed for five years for leading
the hijacking, were the only men still in jail and were expected to be freed
within days. The seven others, who were jailed for 27 to 30 months, had already
served their sentences.

Three judges at the Court of Appeal ruled Thursday that the convictions were
legally questionable because the law relating to whether the men had acted under
duress had been wrongly applied at their trial.

The hijackers took over a Boeing 727 belonging to Afghanistan's national
airline, Ariana, shortly after it left Kabul in February 2000 on an internal
flight with more than 180 people aboard.

INDONESIA

Warships fire on rebels; five are reported killed

Indonesia's military fired warship guns at guerrilla positions in Aceh province
Thursday and promised to increase land and air attacks - even as international
calls for peace intensified.

The military reported killing five rebels in ambushes Thursday, bringing to 27
the number of separatists killed or captured during the past four days. The
recent fighting marks the most intense crackdown yet on secessionist rebels in
Aceh province, located on the northern tip of Sumatra, Indonesia's largest
island.

Battles started Monday after the breakdown of peace talks in Tokyo and the
unraveling of a Dec. 9 cease-fire over the rebels' insistence on having
independence.

IVORY COAST

Cabinet ministers agree to armistice plans

Ministers of Ivory Coast's new power-sharing Cabinet convened in a northern
rebel headquarters Thursday - a venue meant to symbolize the divided nation's
reunification after civil war.

Participants in Bouake agreed to armistice plans for rebels behind the
nine-month war in Ivory Coast, a one-time West African economic powerhouse.

In Abidjan, however, small groups of pro-government activists demonstrated
against such reunification, ripping up railway tracks that link
government-controlled south and rebel-controlled north.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              68 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 23, 2003 Friday Five Star Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest Column; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 656 words


MEXICO

Bodies of migrants are flown home for burial

The bodies of 11 of 19 illegal migrants who died after being locked in a
sweltering truck trailer and abandoned in South Texas arrived in Mexico City
late Thursday.

Mexican air force personnel unloaded the white and brown metal coffins from a
C-130 Hercules transport plane and put them in hearses. The bodies were then
brought to the military wing of Mexico City's international airport, where it
appeared a small group of relatives had gathered to claim them. Later the bodies
were to be flown to the victims' hometowns for burial.

The trailer was discovered at a truck stop outside Victoria, Texas, on May 14,
hours after smugglers helped the illegal migrants across the border, then locked
them in the trailer. At least 13 were Mexican while the other six victims were
either from Central America or had yet to be identified.

BRITAIN

Convictions are voided for nine Afghan hijackers

Nine Afghan men jailed for hijacking a plane from Kabul to London to escape a
Taliban death squad won an appeal against their convictions Thursday.

Ali Safi and his brother Mohammed, who were jailed for five years for leading
the hijacking, were the only men still in jail and were expected to be freed
within days. The seven others, who were jailed for 27 to 30 months, had already
served their sentences.

Three judges at the Court of Appeal ruled Thursday that the convictions were
legally questionable because the law relating to whether the men had acted under
duress had been wrongly applied at their trial.

The hijackers took over a Boeing 727 belonging to Afghanistan's national
airline, Ariana, shortly after it left Kabul in February 2000 on an internal
flight with more than 180 people aboard.

INDONESIA

Warships fire on rebels; five are reported killed

Indonesia's military fired warship guns at guerrilla positions in Aceh province
Thursday and promised to increase land and air attacks - even as international
calls for peace intensified.

The military reported killing five rebels in ambushes Thursday, bringing to 27
the number of separatists killed or captured during the past four days. The
recent fighting marks the most intense crackdown yet on secessionist rebels in
Aceh province, located on the northern tip of Sumatra, Indonesia's largest
island.

Battles started Monday after the breakdown of peace talks in Tokyo and the
unraveling of a Dec. 9 cease-fire over the rebels' insistence on having
independence.

IVORY COAST

Cabinet ministers agree to armistice plans

Ministers of Ivory Coast's new power-sharing Cabinet convened in a northern
rebel headquarters Thursday - a venue meant to symbolize the divided nation's
reunification after civil war.

Participants in Bouake agreed to disarmament and armistice plans for rebels
behind the nine-month war in Ivory Coast, a one-time West African economic
powerhouse.

In Abidjan, however, small groups of pro-government activists demonstrated
against such reunification, ripping up railway tracks that link
government-controlled south and rebel-controlled north. Police, smiling, watched
without interfering.

ARGENTINA

Public works proposal is expected at inauguration

President-elect Nestor Kirchner worked Thursday to finalize his new government
ahead of a weekend inauguration in which he is expected to outline ambitious
plans for a large public works program.

Kirchner was declared president after former leader Carlos Menem dropped out of
a runoff last week. Ahead of Sunday's swearing-in ceremony, Kirchner has said
little in detail about his plans for governing over the next four years. Reports
suggest he is poised to embark on a $3 billion public works project.

Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna - who is staying on from the outgoing
government of President Eduardo Duhalde - insists the public works project was
affordable, although the government remains largely cash-strapped.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              69 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 13, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 632 words


LOS ANGELES

Airport tower blackout is blamed on a bird

A brief electrical outage apparently caused by a bird on a power line knocked
out electricity to the Los Angeles International Airport control tower and
disrupted air traffic Monday morning.

Eighty to 100 flights had to hold in the air, circle or stay on the ground at
other airports, Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Donn Walker said. Some
departures from Los Angeles also were delayed briefly. All flights remained in
contact with the FAA, he said.

All radar, radios and telephones - essentially everything that controllers use
to communicate with aircraft and other control facilities - was hit by the
outage, Walker said.

HOUSTON

Pair plead guilty in 19 deaths in trailer

A man and a woman pleaded guilty Monday to taking part in a smuggling operation
that led to the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants abandoned in the stifling
trailer of a truck.

Abelardo Flores, 34, and Fatima Holloway, 29, could each be sentenced to up to
life in prison and a fine of up to $250,000, although prosecutors said that
under the plea agreement, they would recommend lesser sentences.

Prosecutors said Flores recruited a New York man, Tyrone Williams, and paid him
$7,500 to drive the truck.

Holloway, from Cleveland, was accused of being in a tractor-trailer driven by
Williams in May and lying at a border patrol checkpoint when she told
authorities the trailer was empty.

The trailer was carrying some 70 illegal immigrants from Mexico, Cent ral
America and the Dominican Republic being smuggled to Houston when they began to
suffer from the heat. The trailer was abandoned May 14 at a truck stop 100 miles
southwest of Houston.

Seventeen immigrants were found dead inside the trailer, and two others later
died. Sentencing was set for July 12.

CHICAGO

More than 28 million could lose their sight

More than 28 million Americans over age 40 have eye ailments that put them at
risk for vision loss and blindness, researchers say.

Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness worldwide and the No. 1 cause of
poor vision in the United States, affecting an estimated 20.5 million American
adults. That number is expected to climb to 30.1 million in the next 20 years,
researchers say.

Other major causes of blindness and vision loss are macular degeneration,
glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. All are strongly linked with aging.

The figures were published Monday in April's Archives of Ophthalmology.

Currently, 1 million Americans over 40 are blind. They are among 3.3 million who
suffer from some vision loss, a number projected to reach 5.5 million by 2020.

NEW YORK

Ban on ephedra sales takes effect nationally

A ban on sales of the herbal supplement ephedra took effect Monday as a federal
judge in New Jersey rejected a manufacturer's bid to keep the weight-loss aid on
the market.

The nationwide ban is the first for a dietary supplement. The federal government
links ephedra to heart attacks, strokes and deaths. Manufacturers insist the
product is safe when used as directed.

U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano turned down a request from ephedra seller NVE
Inc. for a temporary restraining order to stop the ban from going into effect.

Health officials describe ephedra as a dangerous stimulant that raises blood
pressure and stresses the circulatory system.

WASHINGTON

Most commercial jets have defibrillators now

Most commercial airplanes now must have medical equipment on board to help
passengers who suffer heart attacks. The new Federal Aviation Administration
rule, which affects about 2,600 airliners, went into effect Monday.

Airliners staffed with at least one flight attendant must have the device, known
as an automated external defibrillator. Some already carry the equipment.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATIONAL FOCUS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              70 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 13, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest Column; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 657 words


CHINA

U.S.-based scholar gets 5 years in prison

China today sentenced U.S.-based scholar Yang Jianli to five years in prison for
illegally entering the country and spying in a case that triggered widespread
criticism abroad, his lawyer said.

Yang, a permanent U.S. resident and veteran of the 1989 Tiananmen Square
protests, was arrested in April 2002 after entering China on a friend's passport
and traveling for a week on a fake identity card to observe labor unrest in the
northeastern rust belt.

His case drew attention overseas from rights groups and governments who complain
that he was detained without a hearing for too long and abused in jail.

The U.S. State Department has repeatedly called for his release.

SCOTLAND

Two remain missing after factory blast

Rescue teams searched Wednesday for two people still missing after a Glasgow
factory exploded, killing seven and injuring 44.

Rescuers had not heard any voices or tapping from beneath the wreckage of the
Stockline Plastics factory nearly 18 hours after an explosion ripped through the
building, police said.

Sixteen of the injured were in serious condition, Strathclyde Police Chief
Superintendent David Christie said.

Rescuers, using thermal-imaging cameras and heat-seeking equipment, pulled seven
people out alive before nightfall Tuesday.

One woman was found in "distressing circumstances" after 6 1/2 hours of
searching but was expected to recover, said Brian Sweeney, firemaster of the
Strathclyde Fire Service.

No more survivors were pulled out overnight, Sweeney said. Christie said there
was "absolutely no" indication the blast was terrorism-related.

BRAZIL

President catches flak for expelling reporter

President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva came under criticism Wednesday for deciding
to expel a New York Times correspondent who had written a story saying the
Brazilian leader was a heavy drinker. The newspaper protested the order against
correspondent Larry Rohter, and said it "would take appropriate action to defend
his rights."

The article in Sunday's Times, titled "Brazilian Leader's Tippling Becomes
National Concern," recapped rumors that had long been circulating among
journalists in Brasilia, the capital.

Times spokeswoman Catherine Mathis said via e-mail that after consultations with
legal counsel in Brazil, "We believe there is no basis for revocation of Mr.
Rohter's visa and would take appropriate action to defend his rights."

MEXICO

Air force pilots film 11 objects in sky

Mexican air force pilots filmed 11 bright, rapidly moving objects in the skies
that an expert said proved the existence of UFOs, but defense officials said
Wednesday that no conclusions had been reached about the objects' origins.

A videotape aired Monday on national television showed a series of brilliant
objects flying at more than 11,480 feet over southern Campeche state. The tape
was filmed March 5 by air force pilots using a video camera equipped with an
infrared lens.

The objects appear to accelerate rapidly and change course suddenly.

Defense Secretary Gen. Ricardo Vega Garcia said he decided to release the
videotape for scientific study after determining it did not pose a threat to
national security.

NIGERIA

Muslim mobs attack Christians in rampage

Muslim mobs brandishing machetes and clubs attacked Christians in the streets of
Kano on Wednesday as security forces struggled to quell a two-day rampage to
avenge a massacre of hundreds of Nigerian Muslims.

Police confirmed at least 30 killed in strife engulfing this northern city,
where thousands - mostly minority Christians - cowered in army barracks and
police stations as mobs attacked victims outside. Witnesses spoke of scores more
slaughtered.

The rampage exploded Tuesday after a demonstration by thousands of Muslims
protesting the slaying of up to 600 Muslims by a predominantly Christian ethnic
group last week in the central Nigeria town of Yelwa.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              71 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 2, 2004 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

Squabble heats up over migrants' Social Security benefits

BYLINE: MARK STEVENSON The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


For the 14 years Carmelo Rivera worked as an undocumented migrant in the United
States, he had up to $30 deducted from the $300 to $500 he earned each week as a
vineyard worker.

The deductions were supposed to pay for Rivera's retirement. But like millions
of other Mexicans who've worked under false Social Security numbers, he's
unlikely to see a penny of it.

In fact, if some members of Congress have their way, undocumented migrants would
be barred from seeking to reclaim the billions of dollars they paid into Social
Security. Instead, the money would go to pay for the retirements of U.S.
citizens.

Neither the migrants nor the Mexican government appears to be fighting the
issue, despite what's at stake: A little-known Social Security account called
the "earnings suspense file," which grows by about $6 billion a year and now
stands at about $376 billion.

The account is sort of catchall for mismatched names and numbers, but is funded
mostly by undocumented migrants, many of whom don't know the money exists.

Some see it as the price of working in the United States.

"People work under made-up (Social Security) numbers because they don't have any
choice," said Rivera, 34, of southern Oaxaca state. As for the lost money -- the
only retirement savings for him and his wife -- "that's just something you take
in stride. It's part of the cost of the rules they have."

Many migrants are unaware they can get credit for contributions, even if made
under false numbers, if they later get legal residency and present receipts or
pay stubs.

"It's not very common, and it is not necessarily very easy," said Mark Hinkle, a
spokesman for the Social Security Administration in Washington.

Juan Jose Nino Tejedor, who heads the migrant-affairs office for the Mexican
state of Veracruz, says he doesn't know of a single case.

Some migrants are afraid of being punished if they admit they worked illegally.
"We try to have as little contact with the authorities in the United States as
possible," said Rivera.

Hinkle says privacy rules bar his agency from reporting past visa violations to
police. But some workers are using both false names and numbers, making it all
but impossible to prove a claim.

As difficult as the process is, some lawmakers want to make sure no undocumented
workers ever receive any Social Security.

A bill submitted to the House last year by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif.,
would "forbid any Social Security credits for illegal aliens or work (done) in
violation of the terms of a visa."

The wages of undocumented workers are "illegitimate earnings, and whether some
of that money is going into the suspense file is basically irrelevant," said
Jack Martin of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Dan Griswold of the Cato Institute in Washington, a nonprofit public-policy
research foundation that has worked to promote Social Security privatization,
noted that "these people pay into the system, and few ultimately collect
anything. These are some of the lowest-paid workers. They deserve to receive
some kind of benefit from their contributions."

Griswold said the migrants' payments are "gravy for Social Security" because the
money from the suspense file is eventually rolled into the agency's general fund
-- where it helps finance pensions for citizens.

Some funds wind up in the suspense file due to the misspelling of U.S. citizens'
names, or other administrative errors.

But migrants appear to be the largest contributors by far. Some of the last
estimates on the amount paid into Social Security by undocumented workers were
produced in 1994 by the Washington-based Urban Institute, an economic- and
social-policy research group.

At the time, the amount was estimated at about $2.7 billion a year when there
were about 5 million undocumented migrants. But researcher Jeffrey Passel
estimated the migrant number has doubled.

Assuming, as Passel's studies did, that about half of them work on the books,
even at minimum wage their contributions now would total at least $3.35 billion
a year. That would be a little more than one-half of 1 percent of the $533.5
billion collected in Social Security tax payments in 2003.

Supporters of the ban say that when undocumented workers claim lost years of
payments, they also build up more qualifying time for a pension, which could add
millions of low-paid workers to Social Security and add to projected Social
Security shortfalls because low-paid workers cost the system more.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A former migrant worker
confronts security officers during a May protest in front of the Cathedral in
Guadalajara, Mexico, where 600 protesters were demanding to be compensated for
unpaid retirement funds.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              72 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 634 words


Denison, Iowa

11 people from Mexico are found dead in rail car

Up to 11 bodies, possibly immigrants being smuggled into the country, were found
in a Union Pacific rail car, authorities said Monday night.

All the victims were from Mexico, said Jerry Heinauer, district director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for Nebraska and Iowa.

Heinauer said he was told by the Mexican consul that the rail car left
Matamoras, Mexico, in June. It was parked in Oklahoma before heading to Denison,
about 60 miles northwest of Omaha, Neb. He said authorities did not yet know
whether the victims were being smuggled into the country but said the case fit
the pattern of smuggling operations.

ALBANY, N.Y.

Majority say Sen. Clinton shouldn't be president

A strong majority of Americans feel Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., should
never run for president, a poll released Monday showed.

The Marist Institute for Public Opinion found 69 percent of Americans said
Clinton shouldn't run. Twenty-six percent said she should run "someday." A poll
in March 2001 found 30 percent felt she should run for president someday.

"There's been some erosion from numbers that weren't very good to begin with,"
said Marist pollster Lee Miringoff. "There's no groundswell that says there
needs to be a third Clinton term."

Clinton's support was stronger in New York, the Northeast, California and among
women, minorities and Democrats.

MILWAUKEE

2 teens charged in mob beating plead not guilty

Two teenagers charged as adults in the fatal mob beating of a 36-year-old man
pleaded not guilty Monday.

Both were scheduled for trial Feb. 10 on charges of first-degree reckless
homicide. Devin Beamon, 15, and Levar McNeil, 16, are among 11 boys and three
men charged in the beating death of Charlie Young Jr. Nine of the youths are
charged as adults.

Authorities say a mob made up mostly of boys - one age 10 - beat Young with
broomsticks, shovels, a milk crate and other items Sept. 29. Young died Oct. 1.

The two boys charged as juveniles also appeared in court Monday. A 10-year-old
charged with second-degree reckless homicide will undergo a competency
evaluation at his lawyer's request, Assistant District Attorney Joy Hammond
said.

A 15-year-old charged with battery and disorderly conduct denied the charges
Monday and faces trial.

COLUMBUS, Ohio

Panel affirms teaching of evolution, debate

A state school board panel recommended on Monday that Ohio science classes
emphasize both evolution and the debate over its validity. The committee left it
up to individual school districts to decide whether to include in the debate the
concept of "intelligent design," which holds that the universe is guided by a
higher intelligence. The guidelines for the science curriculum simply put into
writing what many school districts already do. The current guidelines do not
even mention evolution.

Conservative groups, some of which had tried and failed to get biblical creation
taught in the public schools, had argued that students should learn about
intelligent design. But critics of intelligent design said it is creationism in
disguise.

ENFIELD, N.C.

Truck plows into cars at road work site, killing 2

A truck slammed into a slow-moving line of cars in a construction zone Monday,
injuring nine people and killing two, authorities said.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Williams said seven other vehicles were involved in the wreck.
Investigators said the truck was going 70 mph when it plowed into a line of
vehicles that had slowed to 5 mph to 10 mph. One car became wedged under the
truck; the roof of another vehicle was ripped off, Williams said.

The accident happened about noon near Enfield, about 30 miles south of the
Virginia line. Interstate 95 was closed, backing up traffic for miles.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - (Photo Only) COLUMBUS DAY
PROTEST; U.S. Park Police officers arrest Guy Lopez of the Crow Creek Sioux
Reservation in South Dakota outside Washington's Union Station on Monday. Lopez
was protesting at the annual Columbus Day celebration.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              73 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 25, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

GUEST-WORKER PROPOSAL DRAWS BUSINESS SUPPORT

BYLINE: Adam Geller/ The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E8

LENGTH: 1150 words


* Some union leaders worry about the power that the measure would give to
employers.

The summer tourists who fill the indoor wave pool at the Cape Codder Resort &
Spa and vie for tables at the Hearth 'n Kettle restaurants won't arrive for
months.

Even so, Bill Catania, whose family owns the Massachusetts businesses, has begun
filling out forms to secure 90 temporary workers from Jamaica and Nepal to wash
dishes and clean rooms once the weather warms."There's not enough Americans to
take the jobs," said Catania, whose company is based in Hyannis, Mass. "We bring
(the foreign temps) in for 10 months, and then we have to send them back."

The challenge is finding and keeping legally employable workers to fill mostly
unglamorous lower-wage service jobs. It explains the broad enthusiasm of
business owners like Catania for an idea that elsewhere sparks heated debate:
loosening immigration laws.

President George W. Bush shelved the idea after the terrorist attacks in 2001,
but he put it back in play recently with a proposal to grant temporary legal
status to millions of immigrant workers. The proposal, far from becoming law,
would apply to foreign workers in this country illegally as well as those who
want to come, provided they have a job lined up.

The president's plan, which would allow workers to stay in the country for
renewable three-year periods, is sketchy on specifics. Though the proposal has
received wide criticism from groups that include organized labor, it is received
warmly by many businesses.

"The economic need is there," said Laura Reiff, a lawyer who helps to lead the
Essential Workers Immigration Coalition, a business group that has lobbied for
change on the issue. "I think we've just been handed on a silver platter the
chance to get immigration reform" this year.

Caught in the middle

EWIC boasts a roster of companies and industry groups, from construction and
meatpacking firms to operators of nursing homes and hotels, as well as
restaurant chains like Denny's and Cracker Barrel Old Country Store.

Coalition members and others say they hire large numbers of foreign workers but
complain about expensive procedures to get them and laws that force the
companies to screen out illegal immigrants.

Their hiring needs vary greatly. But at a time when many American workers are
struggling to find positions, these businesses say their job openings are
shunned. They have little choice, businesses say, but to fill many of the jobs
with foreigners.

To them, immigration reform is a matter of necessity, not ideology.

"It's a misnomer to think that these jobs are somehow taken away from
Americans," said Rick Birkman, owner of Texas Roofing Co. in Austin, Texas,
nearly all of whose employees are Mexican-born. "For a small businessman, it
just becomes frustrating to get caught in the middle of t his argument."

To prove his point, Birkman points to a photograph on his wall taken a few years
after his grandfather founded the roofing business in 1935. It shows company
workers, nearly all of them white.

Today, finding American-born workers willing to endure dirty, exhausting,
dangerous work on roofs where temperatures can soar to 130 degrees isn't easy,
he says. The job pays $6.50 to $7 an hour to start, with pay rising to $22 an
hour after a few years for skilled journeymen or foremen. But the few takers
Birkman recruits from high schools usually quit within weeks, complaining about
the heat.

Employers like Birkman say their workers have presented documents declaring them
legal to work. But he acknowledged that some might not be legitimate. Bush's
proposal could be a route to what Birkman believes could be the answer: a
training program in Mexico for workers who then would be allowed into the United
States with a job arranged.

The dynamics are similar for executives at HCR Manor Care of Toledo, Ohio, an
operator of nursing homes and assisted-living facilities that struggles to find
nurses amid a longstanding national shortage.

The company has bolstered its nursing ranks by bringing in about 25 nurses each
quarter from overseas, mostly from the Philippines. But the process takes 18 to
24 months, said Rick Rump, a spokesman. The company believes the president's
proposal would shorten that time to six weeks.

"Who knows how this will turn out, but it's positive what we're hearing," Rump
said. "We and every other health-care provider are trying to get these people."

New working class

Bill Edwards holds a similar view, based on his experience as general manager of
the Hilton Washington hotel. It depends heavily on immigrant labor to fill two
sets of jobs: low-wage positions in housekeeping and food service as well as
entry-level management jobs running restaurants and lounges. Both job categories
attract a relative handful of American applicants, he said.

The result is a staff, which varies between 700 and 900 people depending on the
season, whose members speak 38 languages. Edwards relies on temporary agencies
to screen and supply unskilled workers - most recently Serbs, Croats and Chinese
- when business is heaviest.

But he'd prefer to see the government create a program for those workers like
the J-1 visa program, which allows him to bring in management trainees from
places like India and Germany.

"Why not have a clear-cut way for hiring people who want to work?" he said,
adding that Americans should get the right of first refusal for the positions.

But some labor leaders, many of whom have advocated broad amnesty for illegal
workers, express misgivings about Bush's proposal.

The change would create a class of temporary foreign workers, beholden to
employers for their right to stay in this country, and would leave them
separated from families in their home nations, said Eliseo Medina, executive
vice president of the Service Employees International Union.

"It gives tremendous power to the employer," said Medina, whose union has worked
to organize undocumented workers. "The minute (a foreign worker's ) value is
over, you've got to go home."

Some business owners have doubts about the proposal, too, based more on personal
concerns than economic priorities. Some worry that loosening laws without
cracking down on border enforcement will increase the flow of immigrants,
putting an increased strain on public services, including welfare rolls.

"For me, it's not just an economic issue," said Robert Bueche, president of
Pioneer Roofing Co. in Phoenix. "It's a desirable thing to have more work force
available, because it would make our lives easier, but I'm a little reticent
about how that comes to be."

Others say staying in business requires a steady supply of immigrant labor.

"If we didn't have to, we absolutely would not do this," said Catania, the
Massachusetts hotel owner. "They're coming in, anyway. Why not let them on the
radar screen?"

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS - Bill Catania, managing
partner of the Cape Codder Resort & Spa in Hyannis, Mass., is filling out forms
to secure temporary workers from Jamaica and Nepal to wash dishes and clean
rooms because Americans don't have enough interest in the jobs.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              74 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 6, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

MEXICAN LAWMAKERS GET POLITE REBUFF IN WASHINGTON

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Members of Mexico's congress came to Capitol Hill on Thursday to query their
U.S. counterparts - including Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill. - on the prospects for a
plan to legalize Mexican workers who entered the United States illegally.

One conclusion: "The road to migration isn't paved; it's a dirt road, but today
I believe it's a curvy dirt road," said Sen. Silvia Hernandez, who is chairman
of the North American Foreign Relations panel in the Mexican Senate. "I don't
see a promising atmosphere that would lead me to believe we'll see concrete
legislation anytime soon."

This was the delegation's first trip to Washington, where U.S. lawmakers were
skeptical.

Most of the visits were with co-sponsors of bills to legalize the status of
undocumented workers. Durbin is co-sponsor of a plan to legalize foreigners now
doing agricultural work.

A plan put forth Jan. 7 by President George W. Bush is much broader, calling for
legalization of undocumented foreign workers in any sector - if employers can
prove no U.S. citizen wants the jobs.

Durbin told the Mexican lawmakers he salutes Bush for "challenging all of us to
look at our immigration policy." But he said the plan was unlikely to pass in an
election year on the heels of a recession.

"I told them I found strong opposition to it from both the right and the left
and that is not a good start," said Durbin, who urged them to focus their
attention on more targeted proposals like the agricultural workers bill. "They
said they would suggest to President (Vicente) Fox when he meets with President
Bush to include these legislative items on the agenda."

Fox is scheduled to meet with Bush at his Texas ranch next month.

The Mexican lawmakers saw a window of opportunity, however, in their visit with
Rep. John Hostettler, R-Ind., who heads the House Judiciary subcommittee that is
the first stop for immigration matters. Conservative House Republicans,
including Hostettler, are considered a key obstacle to any legalization plan.

Mexican Sen. Raymundo Cardenas said Hostettler repeated his opposition to such
plans with a caveat: "He believes migrants take away jobs from Americans, yet he
recognized that if there was a decision by House leadership to give the go-ahead
to some proposal, he will do it. ... He would not block it."

Hostettler spokesman Michael Jahr said the Indiana congressman told the
lawmakers "his subcommittee would take a look at" legalization plans if House
leaders ask him to - although he does not expect them to do so. John Feehery, a
spokesman for House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., said Hastert "likes aspects"
of Bush's plan. But he said election-year politics - and Democrats' insistence
that the plan include a path to citizenship for the legalized workers - might be
an obstacle.

"We will try to move it forward if we think we can pass it," Feehery said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 26, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

"FREEDOM RIDE" PROMOTES IMMIGRANT-WORKER RIGHTS;
MANY ON THE BUSES ARE IN THE UNITED STATES ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 583 words


Drawing inspiration from the historic civil rights movement of the 1960s,
hundreds of immigrants - many of them undocumented - are making a cross-country
road trip to push for changes in U.S. immigration law.

The road trip will pause Sunday for a 5:30 p.m. rally at Kiener Plaza in
downtown St. Louis, one of more than 100 stops the "Immigrant Workers Freedom
Ride" is making. The caravan includes 18 buses filled with immigrant workers,
union leaders and civil rights activists from 10 cities.

Organizers of this modern-day freedom ride aren't promoting any specific
proposal. Instead, they said, they hope to draw attention to the need to make it
easier for all immigrants, regardless of their legal status, to become citizens.
They also want to promote better workplace conditions and basic labor rights.

Those goals have been made more difficult by a heightened suspicion of
foreigners following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, said Laura
Barrett, one of the local rally organizers. Anti-terrorist measures such as the
Patriot Act also have led to "a diminution of civil rights for everyone, but
especially for immigrants," Barrett said. "Since Sept. 11, people are much more
likely to be deported now than ever before."

Missouri Gov. Bob Holden and St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay have put their support
behind the Freedom Ride, and both are scheduled to attend the rally Sunday.

One of the event's speakers will be Angelina Dominguez, a 48-year-old former
California migrant worker who now lives in Edmundson, in north St. Louis County.
Dominguez said she wants to ensure that field workers and other manual laborers
are treated and paid fairly.

"They need to respect our civil rights, too. We are not second-class people,"
she said through an interpreter as the two rode a bus that left Monday from San
Francisco.

Other St. Louis speakers at the event will include Anna Ghounem, whose husband,
Walid, was deported last week to his native Egypt, and Matt Morrison, a former
member of the Irish Republican Army who gained legal status after fighting a
lengthy deportation battle.

All 18 freedom buses will meet in Washington, where they will lobby members of
Congress, before converging for a rally on Oct. 4 in New York's Flushing Meadows
Park.

The freedom ride has won much support, but it's also been criticized for linking
the plight of undocumented workers to one of the most historic events in civil
rights.

"Freedom ride? Freedom from what? Freedom from the rule of law, I suppose," said
David Ray, a spokesman for the Washington-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which advocates stricter immigration laws. "The civil rights
movement never had anything to do with open borders. What these people really
want is a free ride - free from the law of this land and free from the right to
immigrate legally."

But Charles Oldham, a St. Louis lawyer and civil rights leader, said that "in
many ways, they're seeking some of the same things."

"Freedom rides are a time-honored system," said Oldham, who helped provide legal
representation to the original riders during the 1960s.

"They talk about civil rights and civil liberties, and all humans are entitled
to those," he said. "And just because you're an immigrant, even if you're an
illegal immigrant, once you're here, once you start working and pay taxes and
have children and become part of a community, you should not be denied basic
civil rights and liberties. You must be treated humanely."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Eun-Kyung Kim; E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8116

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by GABRIEL B. TAIT/ POST-DISPATCH - Outside the Jay
international food store at 3172 South Grand Boulevard in St. Louis on Thursday,
Laura Barrett (left) hands out leaflets about a rally downtown today promoting
the rights of immigrants. Listening are Shihomi Matsubara (center), a St. Louis
University student, and Miha Takehana, a student at the University of Missouri
at St. Louis.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              76 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             October 25, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WAL-MART WILL REVIEW ITS 1.1 MILLION EMPLOYEES IN CHECK FOR ILLEGAL WORKERS

BYLINE: Chuck Bartels The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, ARK.


* Law-enforcement officials say wiretaps show company executives knew of
illegal-worker hirings.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc., stung by allegations that it knew contract cleaning
services used illegal workers, said Friday that it would review all of its 1.1
million workers in the United States and fire any who aren't employed legally.

The move came one day after federal agents arrested 245 illegal workers in a
21-state sweep of 60 Wal-Mart stores and the company's headquarters.

Law enforcement officials told the Associated Press on condition of anonymity
that they'd obtained wiretap recordings that indicate Wal-Mart executives knew
the company's subcontractors used illegal workers.

While contract cleaning crews were the focus of the sweep, Wal-Mart spokeswoman
Mona Williams said Friday that about 10 Wal-Mart associates in Arizona and
Kentucky were among those arrested.

"These are people who used to be part of the outside cleaning crew, and when we
took that in-house, these folks were simply hired on as employees," Williams
said. "They got caught up in the immigration sweep."

Wal-Mart began moving toward using its own workers to clean floors at its stores
about a year ago.

John Shewairy, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Washington, wouldn't disclose the names of companies that contracted with
Wal-Mart. Williams, citing privacy issues, said Wal-Mart wouldn't identify the
companies, either.

Shewairy said the workers came from 18 nations and included 90 people from
Mexico, 35 from the Czech Republic, 22 from Mongolia and 20 from Brazil. The
government first said it had arrested about 300 people, but Shewairy said Friday
the number turned out to be lower.

Wal-Mart, the largest private employer in the United States, said it will
cooperate with investigators.

The company told managers Thursday to preserve all relevant documents in case
immigration agents want to review them. Agents left with several boxes after
searching the office of a mid-level executive at Wal-Mart's headquarters in
Bentonville, Ark.

Williams said Friday that Wal-Mart hasn't heard from the government that it is a
target of an investigation. "No one at Wal-Mart has been subpoenaed," she said.

"We are doing a very thorough investigation with our own stores so we understand
what happened and make sure that if we need to take pro-active, corrective
steps, we will do that," she said. "If we find workers that are undocumented we
would terminate them immediately."

The law enforcement sources said the investigation grew out of earlier
investigations of Wal-Mart cleaning-crew contractors in 1998 and 2001.

Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, uses more than 100 contractors to
clean more than 700 stores nationwide, Williams said.

Maria Stephenson, an immigration lawyer in New Orleans, said a company hiring a
subcontractor probably would not be held responsible if the subcontractor hired
illegal aliens. She also said a company does not have to verify a prospective
worker's documents.

Shewairy said the immigration agency does routine audits of companies throughout
the country, checking I-9 forms that each U.S. worker must complete.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              77 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             January 7, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

BUSH PROPOSAL WOULD GRANT LEGAL STATUS TO FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A plan being proposed by President George W. Bush would give legal status to
foreign workers, including millions already toiling in America's underground
economy. They would be allowed to stay in the United States but not be put on a
fast track toward permanent U.S. residency.

In a speech planned for today at the White House, Bush will ask Congress to
approve changes to immigration policy. Bush is also including in his plan
incentives to entice the workers to go back to their homelands.

An estimated 8 million to 10 million undocumented immigrants are in the United
States, perhaps half from Mexico.

Under the Bush plan, foreign workers could apply for legal status for a
three-year period if they had U.S. jobs. They could travel to and from the
United States and possibly work in the country for additional three-year periods
if approved by Congress.

Senior administration officials who outlined the proposal for reporters Tuesday
night said the president is calling for an unspecified, but "reasonable,"
increase in the number of green cards available to workers. These cards give
permanent legal status to foreigners. Now, 50,000 a year are available through a
lottery.

However, they said that being part of what is being called the "temporary worker
program" would not give foreign workers any advantage to applying for green
cards - the first step toward obtaining U.S. citizenship.

Immigrant advocacy groups say the president's proposal falls short. But groups
wanting to curb immigration say the temporary worker plan rewards foreign
workers who broke the law when they entered the United States.

Under current immigration law, foreigners who have violated U.S. laws can be
banned from re-entry for three years to life. The White House was unclear
whether it wants to waive that law for illegal immigrants who take part in the
temporary worker program.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              78 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              March 18, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LAWYER HELPS IMMIGRANTS LEARN TO DEAL WITH U.S. LAW

BYLINE: Patricia Rice/ Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words


* Some are working illegally and fear they will be returned to the countries
they fled.

A couple years ago, after Lydia Dilianczou graduated with a degree in social
work, she set out to see the world.

While she was still at the University of Bratislava, in her native Slovakia, she
heard about a Florida-based contract-work company that a dvertised widely in
Eastern Europe and promised menial jobs in the United States.

Using her savings and graduation gifts, she bought a plane ticket to Florida.
She signed an employment contract there and was sent to a St. Louis hotel for a
$6.50-an-hour kitchen job. She didn't know English then, but the contractors
didn't care.

She traveled on a U.S. tourist visa. No employment is allowed on a tourist visa,
and tourists may not stay more than three months at a time. Having grown up in a
Communist satellite state where black-market jobs were common, she never
imagined that she'd need a lawyer to keep her out of jail.

But last October, she and other contract workers across the country landed in
jail and were charged with working on tourist visas.

Andrea Crumpler, at the nonprofit Interfaith Legal Services for Immigrants,
represented Dilianczou and got her bail lowered from $7,500 to $4,000. Her St.
Louis fiance, his family and friends were able to raise the rest. Her trial is
set for next fall.

"Like the vast majority of Americans you'd ask on the street, many people from
other countries don't fully understand all of our laws and rules," said the
fiance, Charles Orear, 37, a hotel employee. The couple plan to marry Saturday.

Crumpler explained to Dilianczou that she could not work while awaiting trial
and was able to refer her to other immigrant services here.

"She's been very helpful; I really appreciate what she has done for myself,"
said Dilianczou, who now attends English classes at the International Institute
on South Grand Boulevard and who eventually wants to become a psychotherapist.

Crumpler is the only lawyer for the 18-month-old nonprofit agency, which handles
legal representation, counseling and social-service referrals for immigrants in
the St. Louis area. Her Latino and Bosnian clients tend to live in St. Louis and
south St. Louis County, Asians in northern University City, and many of the West
Africans in north St. Louis County and west St. Louis County.

The agency, which has office space at 4232 Forest Park Boulevard, was set up
because of the legal limitations of a state-sponsored agency that serves a
similar function, the Immigration Law Project of Legal Services of Eastern
Missouri. Because that group is government-funded, its regulations bar it from
helping asylum seekers or some working-poor immigrants whose income is a certain
percentage above poverty level.

Rather than government money, Interfaith Legal Services is funded by grants from
the Incarnate Word Foundation, the Society of the Sacred Heart, individuals and
sales of a cookbook. Crumpler compiled the cookbook, called "A World of Food,"
from recipes provided by clients and some international cooks. It is sold for
$15 at the office.

Crumpler has handled more than 160 cases for the agency. She has found the most
rewarding cases to be those of people seeking asylum, and she treasures the
times when she has been able to call clients who fear returning to their own
countries to tell them they are safe and can stay.

She is a graduate of the Washington University School of Law and also has a
graduate degree from there in social work, which helps in counseling her
immigrants clients. She refers them to agencies for housing, food and medical
care. She sent one client to a hospital emergency room because he was having
chest pains. Many complain of sleeping and stomach disorders.

"Many of the clients have lived under terrible stress and have post-traumatic
stress," she said.

Sometimes, clients take advantage of her gentle manner.

"Some think that they are the only client I have," she said. "I have to tell
them I can't talk to them more than once a day."

Many of her clients originally came here to attend Lindenwood College in St.
Charles, the University of Missouri at St. Louis or St. Louis University.
Changes in their homelands made them afraid to return.

Some arrived on the short-term tourist visas. "They tell me that they fear if
they had asked the U.S. embassy in their homeland for asylum, they would be
refused," she said.

Volunteers from the Washington University and St. Louis University law schools
and other volunteers have helped her with international political research and
translations of official documents.

Last October, she made one of those joyful "you're safe" calls to Aye Nathaniel
Akoda, 21, a cleaner at Lambert Field.

In high school in his native Togo, in West Africa, he had been a member of a
pro-democracy youth group. The group's founder was the son of Sylvanus Olympio,
Togo's first democratically elected president. Three years after his election in
1961, Olympio was assassinated by a military junta.

Akoda came to St. Louis in 2002 on a tourist visa to see a cousin in St. Ann and
took English as a Second Language classes at Northwest Plaza. There he heard
about Interfaith Legal Services and made an appointment with Crumpler.

About five months and 10 telephone calls later, she won him asylum status. His
cousin paid the agency's $350 legal fee, which was based on a sliding scale.

Now he has his own apartment in St. Ann and this summer he expects to begin
nursing courses at UMSL.

"She was good help," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Patricia Rice:/ E-mail: price@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
636-500-4111

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photo by STEPHANIE S. CORDLE - Interfaith Legal
Services attorney Andrea Crumpler (right), 29, listens as Charles Orear, 37, of
St. Louis, lists facts for her. Crumpler is helping Orear and his fiancee fill
out legal forms./ (2) Photo by STEPHANIE S. CORDLE - Andrea Crumpler (right),
29, helps Lydia Dilianczou (left) of Slovakia with legal forms to stay in the
United States and marry Charles Orear (center).

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              79 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 26, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

CULTURE CLUB: SMALL CONSTRUCTION FIRM EMPLOYS IMMIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: Kathie Sutin/ Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 821 words


* Howard and Florence Streeter have employees from several nationalities, and
enjoy helping people get on their feet in a new country.

When Howard and Florence Streeter established Streeter's Construction Inc., in
1986, they set out to rehab old houses. They didn't know that ultimately they
would be rehabbing lives as well.

For the last few years, the small, family-owned company has hired newly arrived
immigrants. The full-time staff looks like a miniature international institute,
with two Filipinos, two Mexicans and a Bosnian, along with the Streeters and
another American.

Besides providing jobs, the Streeters sometimes help workers find housing, learn
English and navigate a new culture.

Originally, the couple envisioned "this tiny little company with (Howard
Streeter) and maybe one other person," Florence Streeter said. "Then I had the
bright idea that we should go to a work fair sponsored by the International
Institute and the Home Builders Association."

There, the couple were struck by the plight of people seeking a new life in
America. They hired two Bosnians. "Those two people aren't with us any more, but
we helped them get a start," she said.

The Streeters started out in the construction business by buying houses, living
in them as they did the rehab work, then selling them. From there, they moved on
to remodeling houses for other people.

Some of the houses were in the Bevo area, where a lot of Bosnians have settled.
After the Streeters hired the first two Bosnians, other immigrants came looking
for work.

"Pretty soon we had another person who was an electrician. He started working
with us (maybe) the second day he was in America. He is an excellent
electrician, and he was able to get in with the union and he's got a really good
job now."

The electrician brought his brother-in-law, Asim Hasanovic, who Florence
Streeter called "an incredible craftsperson." He's been with the company three
years and now speaks fluent English, she said.

The recent addition of two Mexican workers was the result of Florence Streeter's
visit to a restaurant. "I just happened to be talking ... about a house for
rent, and one of the waiters asked if we had any extra work," she said. "He had
two brothers who needed jobs. I said, 'I have something they could help us
with.'"

Language with an international crew is sometimes an issue, but it's not
insurmountable, the Streeters said.

"Sometimes we draw pictures, and sometimes Howard has to stay a little longer
than he might if English happened to be the first language, but it's a small
price," Florence Streeter said.

Howard Streeter said he's learned a little Bosnian along the way, too.

The language barrier also meant the Streeters weren't always initially sure what
kind of skills employees might bring to the job. And Howard Streeter said the
prospect of hiring people whose backgrounds he couldn't check was "kind of
scary."

Still, he said, "It just felt right to do it. Whatever problems we had, we just
worked through."

Florence Streeter said they also worried about how customers would react to
workers who didn't speak English. "But overall, the public has been so
supportive and very open, and if it takes them a little longer to understand,
they haven't seemed to be upset about it."

Doug and Laurie Sparr have used Streeter's for several projects on their south
St. Louis County home. He said he was impressed by the crew's attention to
detail. "They were here very late in the evening several times because they
would run into an issue, and they wouldn't leave it undone. ... It's stuff like
that that you don't find with certain other contractors."

Howard Streeter got into the house remodeling business through a circuitous
route. He studied electrical engineering in college with the goal of designing
electric cars. But he didn't get a degree.

"I somehow worked my way back around to just being an auto mechanic," he said.
"I had always been interested in carpentry. Florence and I rehabbed houses when
we first got married."

One of his auto repair customers wanted to build a 1,200-square-foot room
addition.

"He really loved the way I took car of his cars, and he pretty much insisted I
build the addition, just knowing the way I work," Streeter said. "I basically
spent every night reading magazines and watching 'This Old House' to figure out
what to do the next day."

That project started Streeter on the way to forming his construction firm.

Today, the company that wanted to stay small continues to expand the scope of
its work. It is venturing into Jefferson and Franklin counties and soon will
build its first modular house in Pacific.

= = = =

Streeter's Construction Inc.

Owners: Howard and Florence Streeter

Top executive: Howard Streeter, president

Employees: 8 full-time, 2 part-time

Address: 7 Vance Road, Valley Park

What they do: General contractor and home remodeling company

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: SMALL BUSINESS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1-4) Color Photos by DIANE WILSON - FROM THIS . . . . . . TO
THIS/ (1,2) Streeter's Construction rehabs condemned modular homes, such as this
one (left) in the Golden Ridge subdivision in Grubbville, and makes them livable
again (right)./ (3,4) This kitchen in a modular home in Grubbville (left) was
left in extremely poor condition by the property's previous owner. The picture
on the right represents what it will look like after being fixed and cleaned by
Streeter's Construction.

TYPE: PROFILE/HOWARD STREETER, FLORENCE STREETER/STREETER'S CONSTRUCTION INC.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              80 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 9, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

SOLUTIONS - POLITICS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 2747 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* The near quintupling of legal foreign workers is spurring Congress to seek a
balance between the interests of American workers and employers of temporary
foreign laborers.

The Belmontes brothers -- Jose, Andres and Alejandro -- boarded a bus in
Villanueva, Mexico, in late February, en route to $7.25-an-hour jobs with Loyet
Landscape Maintenance in St. Charles.

They had one stop first: the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey. There, consular
officials issued them three of the 150 temporary worker visas that the U.S.
Labor Department had approved this year for Loyet to fill with foreign labor. In
doing so, the agency had to certify that the company -- which advertised the
jobs first in local newspapers -- couldn't get locals to do the jobs.

The number of temporary workers Loyet has used has grown steadily over the
years, and the company is not alone in making more use of the visas, known as
the H-2B. The Labor Department approved more than 4,000 visa applications from
Missouri businesses last year, and more than 2,000 from Illinois -- many times
the numbers from just a few years ago. (Not all of the applications result in
visas that are used.)

Nationwide, the certifications have nearly quintupled in the past five years.
This year, the program was halted in March when it reached its annual
66,000-worker limit, provoking an outcry among owners of summer-tourism
businesses that rely heavily on foreign workers.

Most of the visas in Missouri and Illinois are used to hire landscape workers.
Yet thousands of the visas also brought in forest workers, janitorial and
housekeeping crews, and construction and restaurant workers - many of the same
types of jobs that illegal foreign workers are doing.

President George W. Bush and others have floated plans to allow more such
workers to be in the United States legally, prompting a wide-ranging debate
about the impact foreign workers are having on the job market, and on consumers.

Critics say employers are taking advantage of both legal and illegal foreign
labor because they don't want to pay enough to attractive native workers.

"Our own home-grown labor is in such terrible straits right now that it's
callous to bring foreign workers into their job market. This directly attacks
the poorest of the working poor," said Roy Beck of Numbers USA, a
Washington-based group that advocates stringent immigration controls.

Employers who use low-skilled, low-wage workers counter that labor short ages
demand expanded access to foreign labor. Without that, they say, their
businesses would suffer significantly - or go under.

"You can't just create human beings by paying more," said John Gay, co-chairman
of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, a group that spans several
industries, from landscaping and plumbing to hotels and restaurants, and
advocates expanded access to foreign workers - including the legalization of
illegal workers already in the United States. "Demographically we are not
producing enough people in this country to sustain the economic growth that we
as a society want to have."

Russell Roberts, an economics professor at George Mason University in Fairfax,
Va., says each argument has merit.

"I think they're both right," he said. "There's a little hyperbole on both
sides. Obviously (employers) could offer more and get more domestic native
workers, but the question is how much more? And if they did, they'd probably
have to raise their prices and wouldn't get as much business. . . .

"And there's another, hidden effect: Companies would have less money to spend on
something else, because they would have to spend more for landscaping. So
there'd be less of something else. What would that be? I don't know. . . .
There'd be less work in other industries outside of landscaping because of these
changes."

From Mexico to St. Louis

Few would dispute that the growth in the visa program has been a boon in small,
poor Mexican towns like the Belmontes' hometown of El Salto. For as long as
anyone can remember, men from the town have crossed illegally to work in the
United States - and are still doing so.

But with stepped-up border security, crossing illegally has become riskier.
Under the temporary-worker program, men like the Belmontes brothers can return
to their families just before Christmas and often get a visa with the same
company the next year to go back legally.

Andres Belmontes, 44, first came to St. Louis on a visa with Top Care Lawn
Service, Missouri's top employer of H-2B workers. The Labor Department has
regularly approved the company for 200 visas a year. For Belmontes, the one that
came to him after a recommendation from a friend in St. Louis, it was a way to
provide for his growing family. That was something he could barely do back home
as a police officer, a notoriously poorly paid job in Mexico.

"It just wasn't enough to keep the family going. I wanted to improve my life,"
said Andres Belmontes, who lives away from his wife and three children for nine
months while working in St. Louis, sleeping on the floor of his sister's trailer
in Fairmont City. As a single man two decades ago, he crossed illegally to work
in a factory in California, and he finds this alternative far better: "It's
easier with the visa."

The number of foreign-worker visas in such low-skilled work has surged in recent
years, particularly since 2000. At the tail end of a decade of rapid economic
growth, the native labor market couldn't keep up with the demand. But even as a
recession hit in 2001, the numbers continued to grow.

Many attribute the rush for visas to increased immigration sweeps in the 1990s.
Immigration agents arrested and deported 22 Mexican nationals who had been
working with false visas for Top Care in 1992. And in 1997, they deported more
than 50 illegal Mexican workers employed in St. Louis by the Brickman Group, a
national landscaping company based in Pennsylvania.

The company did not return calls for comment for this story.

"I truly think that when Brickman was raided, that was a wake-up call to all of
the employers," said Susan Cho Figenshau, a St. Louis immigration lawyer who has
helped several clients, many of them landscapers, to secure visas for foreign
workers.

Arthur Carr, another St. Louis immigration lawyer, cited a more subtle reminder
from the federal government. Clients started coming to him looking for visa help
after many began receiving letters from the Social Security Administration that
said their employees' names didn't match with the Social Security numbers they
were using. In some cases, it was because their workers were using false
documents.

Social Security Administration spokeswoman Carolyn Cheezum said that was not the
program's intent. But the effect was real for companies whose workers couldn't
explain the mismatch, particularly in 2002, when 950,000 such letters landed in
employers' mailboxes.

The employers who have most heavily used the visas in recent years say they
can't run their businesses without them.

Loyet's general manager Mike King said few locals, if any, respond to the
newspaper want ads that he must run before he can seek foreign workers under the
program.

"Out of 125 openings, I had nobody apply for that work," King said, referring to
landscaping jobs such as mowing lawns, putting down mulch or planting shrubs.
"The year before, I had three who applied for 125 positions - and they didn't
work out. Of those three, one showed up to be interviewed and was hired. He
stayed three days. The other two elected not to take the position. The work was
too hard. It's very physical work."

Top Care general manager Rusty White said he has similar experiences. He
believes the temporary nature of the work is a significant reason: "Not a lot of
people are interested in seasonal jobs. They'd rather have year-round income."

Legalizing illegal workers

President Bush's guest-worker proposal, announced in January, would allow
millions of undocumented workers here the chance to qualify for three-year
renewable temporary visas to fill low-skilled jobs that U.S. workers won't take.
Workers abroad could also apply.

His proposal also would allow the temporary workers to switch employers in
certain circumstances - a luxury the H-2B program does not allow. Under Bush's
plan, for example, the 21 Nicaraguan janitors who were laid off at Washington
University in November after three months on the job would have been able to
stay in the United States and look for a job elsewhere. (The university's
dispute with the contractor who employed the janitors led to their quick return
home to Nicaragua.)

The president's plan has received a cool reception from some Republicans who
argue it will reward those who came into the country illegally. Other
Republicans and many Democrats also oppose the plan because it doesn't give
illegal workers a path to permanent residency in the United States.

Republicans and Democrats have offered several other proposals that would expand
foreign-worker programs. Most do provide a path to legal permanent residence
that can eventually lead to U.S. citizenship.

The one most likely to become law is a proposal that would provide for the
legalization of 500,000-850,000 agricultural workers and the possibility for
eventual citizenship. The measure has broad, bipartisan support, but wouldn't
affect millions of other illegal workers here.

Andrew Sum is an economics professor and the director of the Northeastern
University Center for Labor Market Studies in Boston who thinks now is a bad
time to allow more foreign workers into the country.

He believes that foreign workers were needed during the boom times of the 1990s,
but that when they continued to be hired in the recession that followed in 2001,
it put low-skilled native workers out of work.

"Immigrants have made major contributions to the labor markets, but we never
varied our immigration policy when the economy hit its downturn. We kept
allowing large amounts of immigrants to come in," said Sum. He estimates that
more than 2.1 million new immigrants - legal and illegal - have joined the U.S.
work force since January 2001, but that during that time only about 500,000 new
jobs were created.

"Basically the types of jobs they're taking is of native-born workers with very
similar education," he said. "They face this enormous competition from
less-skilled immigrants."

Morton Paglin, an emeritus professor of economics at Portland (Ore.) State
University who has studied the underground economy, said many businesses that
depend on temporary labor could suffer if they are forced to increase wages to
make jobs more appealing to American workers.

"It's true if you paid enough you could evoke more of a supply of labor in the
United States. But then the viability of the business is in question - or if the
cost is pushed up, then demand goes down," Paglin said.

"For example, in the leisure tourist industry, the demand for hotel space is
fairly elastic, given an increase in price will decrease the demand. People
could go someplace where it's cheaper. They could pitch a tent in a national
park. If you pay the price you can get (native labor) up to a point, but what
are the consequences?"

Cheap labor, low prices

Economists interviewed for this article agreed that a decrease in dependence on
foreign labor and the increased labor costs to lure native workers to the jobs
would inevitably lead to higher prices for consumers. In Missouri and Illinois,
that would likely mean higher prices for landscaping, hotels and restaurants and
for produce in the grocery store.

Sum, the Northeastern University economics professor, said he's willing to pay
more, but acknowledges most likely would not. "I think I am not in the majority.
A lot of people want to get things as cheap as they can. When you're trying to
do it by trying to pound wages down to the lowest common denominator, I consider
it bad social policy."

Roberts, the George Mason University economics professor, sees the issue
differently. He uses the example of the public disdain for Wal-Mart, which grew
to be the world's largest corporation by cost-cutting strategies that depend
heavily on paying low wages and buying many of its products from the poorest
countries.

"A lot of people complain that Wal-Mart creates all this social change -- and
they say, 'For what? Just for the low prices?' But for some people, low prices
are really important," Roberts said. "I don't feel comfortable telling someone
they can't save money. What right do I have to tell them that? This argument
that says, 'The companies can afford to pay more,' what they're really saying
is, 'Customers can afford to pay more.' But sometimes, they can't."

Gary Clifton, president of Ambassador Hospitality Inc. and Proline Management of
St. Charles, has been using temporary-worker visas to employ landscapers and
hotel housekeepers since 2002. The companies contract out the workers to
landscaping firms and resorts that have trouble filling their seasonal jobs. He
paid the 138 housekeepers and the 148 landscapers he employed last year $6.74 to
$7.89 an hour, according to Labor Department records.

He brought in 500 more temporary workers this year, he said. Clifton said he
likes the sound of Bush's plan and others that would allow him to hire illegal
workers already living here. While he must provide housing and transportation
for the workers he brings from abroad, those foreign workers already living here
would eliminate such costs.

"I think you would see a great reduction in the number of workers brought in
because the ones here would be coming out from the shadows and would be free to
move about," Clifton said.

"The down side to that is, if they're able to hop from one employer to the next.
If someone down the street offers them 25 cents more an hour, you'd be out of
luck. But then again, that's the American way."

= = = =

LEGALIZATION PLANS

A summary of the major proposals in Washington:

TEMPORARY GUEST WORKER PLAN

Proposed by: President George W. Bush.

* Would issue three-year temporary visas to as many foreign workers as the
marketplace can handle.

* Would require employers to advertise their jobs first to U.S. citizens on a
national database.

* Would legalize most illegal workers here who have an employer sponsor.

* Would not allow a special path to permanent legal residency; workers would
have to apply for a green card under the same, usually lengthy process as all
others.

Status: Proposed by Bush in January; has not been put into legislation.

AGRICULTURAL JOBS BILL

Proposed by: Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho; Rep. Chris Cannon, R-Utah.

* Would legalize illegal workers who have worked in agriculture for at least 18
months before Aug. 31 and who pass a criminal background check.

* Would give permanent legal status to those who work in agriculture for at
least 360 more days within a certain period of time; they then could work in any
industry.

* Would affect 500,000-850,000 agricultural workers.

Status: Pending in House and Senate committees. Wide support makes it the most
likely for passage.

IMMIGRATION IMPROVEMENT ACT

Proposed by: Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Rep. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz.

* Would legalize illegal workers who have been living and working here before
Aug. 1, 2003, who pay a $1,500 fine and who pass criminal background checks.

* Would allow an unlimited number of foreign guest-workers if an employer
advertises the jobs for two weeks on a national job registry.

* Would permit illegal workers to get temporary, three-year work visas and then
apply for three-year guest-worker visas under which they can eventually become
permanent residents.

Status: Pending in House and Senate committees.

LEGAL VISAS ACT

Proposed by: Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

* Would legalize most illegal workers who can pass a criminal background check
and other national security checks.

* Would add two temporary-worker programs that would allow as many as 3 50,000
guest workers each year.

* Would allow those living here illegally at least five years and working at
least two years before May 4 to qualify immediately for permanent legal
residence. Those living here illegally less than five years could apply for
temporary legal status and become permanent legal residents after working here
for at least two more years.

Status: Introduced last week in the Senate. Only support from Democrats;
unlikely to advance.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE/Last in
a four-part series

NOTES: This is the last story in a four-part series/ Read earlier installments
in our immigration series online at STLtoday.com/immigration./ / Reporter Karen
Branch-Brioso of the Post-Dispatch's Washington bureau covers immigration, the
Justice Department and national political issues./ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/
E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP(6) Post-Dispatch Color Graphic/map - MEXICO/
Villanueva/El Salto/ (7) Post-Dispatch Graphic/Chart - Temporary foreign workers
allowed/ Source: U.S. Department of Labor/ The number of H-2B temporary foreign
workers certified by fiscal year* has increased dramatically since 1997./ BY
STATE IN THOUSANDS/ (Line graph from 1997-2003)/ 2003 MISSOURI: 4,321/ 2003
ILLINOIS: 2,082/ / NATIONWIDE IN THOUSANDS/ (Line graph from 1997-2003)/ 1997:
25,254/ 2003: 144,333/ * Not all of the certified visas are issued, because
workers sometimes do not appear or do not pass background checks required by the
consular officials issuing the visas. ; Photos by HUY RICHARD
MACH/POST-DISPATCH/ (1) Color Photo - After working a full day of landscaping in
March, Jose Belmontes (left), 35, and his brother, Alejandro Belmontes, 46,
prepare a layer of blankets laid out in their sister's Fairmont City living
room: their sleeping arrangements for the next nine months. Eight share the
mobile home in Fairmont City. The three Belmontes brothers came to the St. Louis
area on seasonal visas to work for St. Charles-based Loyet Landscape
Maintenance./ (2) Photo - Maricela Tovar Valle entertains her daughter, Maria
del Lourdes Belmontes, at her parents' house in El Salto, Mexico, in March. Her
husband, Jose Belmontes, had left the small town two days earlier to do
landscaping work in Missouri./ / CALLING ACROSS NORTH AMERICA/ (3) Photo -
Maricela Tovar Valle talks with her husband, Jose Belmontes, in the phone booth
of a grocery in Mexico. More from her town of El Salto, Mexico, have been
getting temporary visas to work in the United States after years of crossing
illegally. (* Note: The THREE STAR caption was: "... phone booth of a grocery
store in Mexico. ...")/ (4) Photo - Brothers Jose and Alejandro Belmontes try to
call their family in El Salto, Mexico, using a pay phone near their sister's
mobile home in Fairmont City. Their time on the $5 calling card expired before
they could get anyone on the line./ (5) Photo - Jose Belmontes lays down a bed
of mulch on the grounds of a hospital while working for Loyet Landscape
Maintenance in March. He and his brothers came to the St. Louis area on seasonal
visas for the landscaping work and will be separated from their family in El
Salto, Mexico, for nine months.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              81 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 27, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

COAST GUARD RESCUES 36 CUBANS FROM DESOLATE ISLAND

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Coast Guard rescued 36 Cubans on a desolate little island in the Bahamas
after they were abandoned by immigrant-smugglers on Christmas Eve, officials
said Thursday.

The 25 men, nine women and two girls were left on Elbow Cay, which is
uninhabited and has no food or water, said Luis Diaz, a Coast Guard spokesman. A
Coast Guard jet spotted them waving for help as the plane was assisting a cutter
in its pursuit of a suspicious boat. The speedy boat escaped into Cuban waters.

The Coast Guard picked up the Cubans on Wednesday and gave them food and water.
They were reported in good health.

"Abandoning these migrants with little food or water and leaving them is a
grossly inhumane act," Coast Guard Lt. Tony Russell said. "Smugglers have no
regard for the well-being of their human cargo, only their own financial gain."

The Cubans were turned over to Bahamian authorities.

Calls to the Bahamian Consulate in Miami and its embassy in Washington went
unanswered Thursday, and it could not be determined what that country will do
with the Cubans.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              82 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 26, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

LA AIRPORT SHOOTER TOLD INS HE WAS ACCUSED OF BEING MILITANT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An immigrant who shot and killed two people July 4 at Los Angeles International
Airport once claimed he had been falsely accused of being in a militant Egyptian
group that the United States now lists as a terrorist group, officials said
Wednesday.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman says a broken asylum system
allowed him to remain in the country.

In a March 30, 1993, interview for asylum, Hesham Mohamed Hadayet told the INS
that Egyptian authorities arrested him and accused him of involvement with
Al-Gamma'a al-Islamiyaa, the Islamic Group, said immigration officials who
reviewed notes from the interview.

At the time, the group was waging a violent campaign to topple the secular
Egyptian government and replace it with Islamic rule. The group is now on the
State Department's terrorist organizations list, which did not exist until 1997.

On Wednesday, Hadayet's wife, Hala El-Awadly, and Egyptian police denied that
Hadayet had any links with terrorist groups.

The INS eventually denied Hadayet asylum, deciding his claims lacked
credibility. But he did not show up for a 1995 removal hearing. He was able to
remain in the United States with a work permit and become a U.S. resident after
his wife won her residency in the U.S. visa lottery program.

Hadayet was killed by a security guard in the Los Angeles airport after he
killed two people at Israel's El Al ticket counter.

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said that when Hadayet applied for asylum, the
INS' asylum system was in disarray, allowing applicants to stay in this country
on work permits while their cases took years to resolve.

News of Hadayet's comments prompted Attorney General John Ashcroft to write to
INS Commissioner James Ziglar, directing the agency to conduct "a prompt review
of existing asylum files to ascertain whether other individuals may be present
in the United States who have admitted that they have been accused of terrorist
activity."

Ashcroft asked for the case reviews to discover "whether there are pro cedures
or practices which expose Americans to a kind of vulnerability, to jeopardize
the safety of Americans."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Mohamed) Hadayet - Shot to death after killing
two on July 4

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              83 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 1, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

ORIGIN OF DISPUTED POLICY OF JAILING HAITIAN ASYLUM-SEEKERS REMAINS VEILED IN
MYSTERY;
 LAWMAKERS HAVE ASKED FOR DETAILS, BUT NO ONE WILL SAY WHO MADE DECISION;
 "NO ONE REALLY WANTS TO TAKE RESPONSIBILITY F0R IT."

BYLINE: Tim Johnson Knight Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Ten months after it was put into effect, the origin of the policy of
incarcerating Haitians who arrive on Florida shores seeking political asylum
remains a mystery that even veteran legislators apparently can't solve.

Critics decry the policy as discriminatory, saying that no other nationality is
singled out and jailed. But where the policy came from within the Bush
administration - or even who established it - remains unknown.

In a brief statement on the latest arrival of Haitian migrants in south Florida,
and without explaining the incarceration policy, Attorney General John Ashcroft
said the Haitians "are being treated fairly, appropriately and humanely."

In recent months, some legislators on Capitol Hill have sought details from the
Bush administration on how the policy was established to keep Haitian
asylum-seekers in jail while their cases were weighed. But the administration
won't say.

"We've been trying to put a face to this policy," said Stephanie Cutter,
spokeswoman for Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., who chairs a Senate subcommittee on
immigration.

Meanwhile, concerns about Haitian immigration are soaring. As the hurricane
season winds down, and as Haiti's political and economic conditions deteriorate,
many officials fear that it would take little to entice a flood of Haitians to
head for Florida, enduring dangerous trips in rickety vessels.

Legal migration is high

In the past month, Haiti has approached an economic tailspin. Its currency, the
gourde, has plunged 25 percent in value. Haitian President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, a former priest, is trying to forestall a run on his nation's banks.
Violence by thugs - usually against opponents of Aristide - is on the rise.

The policy of detaining Haitian asylum-seekers while they await a determination
of their status began in mid-December, shortly after a boatload of 187 Haitians
foundered off Miami.

A directive from the Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters in
Washington ordered federal authorities in South Florida to keep Haitian
asylum-seekers locked up unless otherwise authorized by Washington.

INS officials initially denied the directive. But in response to a lawsuit, INS
Acting Deputy Director Peter Michael Becraft said in a March 19 affidavit that
the new policy was designed to avert a "mass migration" and "to discourage
Haitians from contemplating dangerous voyages to the United States."

Becraft was unavailable for comment, and a spokesman declined to address the
issue.

Legal migration from Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, is
already high. Ashcroft noted in his statement that 58,000 Haitians have come
legally to the United States since 1999.

Advocates for Haitian immigrants say the policy of detaining Haitians who ask
for political asylum is discriminatory. They charge that the policy originates
in higher circles in the Bush administration.

"We think the decision was made way above INS' head," said Dina Paul Parks,
executive director of National Coalition for Haitian Rights, a New York
City-based group. "No one really wants to take responsibility for it. They know
it is very ugly."

Passing the buck?

Cutter, the spokeswoman for Kennedy, said that it "is our understanding that the
decision was made at the highest levels of the administration, and that the
Department of Justice was charged with implementing it."

Kennedy called a hearing Oct. 1 on the policies of detaining Haitian
asylum-seekers, but the Justice Department declined to send anyone to testify.

"No one takes responsibility for it. Everybody passes the buck," said Cheryl
Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, who
testified at the hearing.

Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., peppered a midlevel State Department official
at a different hearing the same day about the genesis of the policy, only to be
told it was an inter-agency decision.

Some question whether jailing Haitian asylum-seekers would succeed in slowing
further immigration.

"Detention in and of itself is not a deterrent," said Doris Meissner, a former
INS chief in the Clinton administration. "The best way to handle it is a policy
of interdiction on the high seas."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATIONAL FOCUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by the AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Haitian refugees are
held by police on the Rickenbacker Causeway Tuesday near Key Biscayne, Fla.,
after they jumped off a wooden freighter that ran aground on a stretch of beach.
Under U.S. policy, Haitians seeking asylum are jailed pending a determination of
their status.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              84 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 24, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

ASHCROFT'S POLICE CHIEF ROLE WIDENS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1633 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Six decades after the threat of war in Europe prompted President Franklin
Roosevelt to move the Immigration and Naturalization Service into the Justice
Department, another wartime administration will move the immigration agency out
-- and into a new Department of Homeland Security.

The impact on Attorney General John Ashcroft and his Justice Department will be
substantial, by any measure. Under the homeland security plan engineered by
President George W. Bush and approved last week by Congress, the shift of
immigration employees alone will take a 28 percent bite out of the Justice
Department's 141,276-member workforce. Those same employees will take more than
$6 billion of the Justice Department's $30 billion budget with them when they
go.

According to longtime observers of the Justice Department, that shift will mean:

* More time for Ashcroft to focus on his other pure law enforcement duties as
ultimate boss of the FBI, federal prosecutors and the Drug Enforcement
Administration, and now of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

* New communication hurdles in using immigration enforcement in the FBI's
anti-terrorism mission.

* A chance for the Justice Department to wield more influence over gun laws.

* An end to potential conflicts between the agents who enforce immigration laws
and the judges who rule on them.

Asked last week how he envisioned the Homeland Security Act changing his job,
Ashcroft spoke, instead, to the goals of the reorganization: "I believe this
effort to integrate, to bring together, not to separate, but to foster this kind
of cooperation between agencies is at the heart of what we need in order to have
a successful defense against terrorism."

The nation's top cop

The motivations behind the transfer of the immigration agency now are similar to
those behind Roosevelt's transfer of the agency from the Labor Department to the
Justice Department in 1940: "a growing perception of immigration as a national
security rather than an economic issue," according to agency historian Marian
Smith.

Justice Department spokesman Mark Corallo downplayed the impact of the switch.
"We devote a significant amount of our time to preventing terrorism," he said.
"That's the focus. "

But Richard Gallo, president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Association, believes Ashcroft's duties will be aimed more closely at policing,
especially with the move of 4,700 Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms
employees from the Treasury Department to the Justice Department.

"The role of the Attorney General will change in that he'll truly be the top law
enforcement officer," he said. "That term had always been thrown around a lot
before, and we always chuckled because 40 percent of law enforcement was under
the Treasury Department. But now that will be true."

While the Justice Department will shed its responsibilities for protecting the
nation's borders, it likewise will shed a troubled agency whose immense scope
also includes student visas, green cards and citizenship applications.

"If it were me, I would feel more powerful without the INS than with it," said
Philip Heymann, a Harvard Law School professor and former deputy attorney
general in the early years of the Clinton administration. "I'd have more time
and energy to focus on stuff that gets more public a ttention -- and I'd have
less embarrassment."

Heymann said the addition of the ATF, which enforces weapons regulations, will
bring added pressure to Ashcroft on two fronts: "The FBI and Drug Enforcement
Administration have always fought with the ATF, so he's going to have to worry
about this. And, especially, since he's a gun person and ATF is always under
attack from the National Rifle Association."

Turf battles

Ashcroft will also have a bigger role in the enforcement of gun laws.

"I have no doubt that where people use a firearm to commit a felony, I'm sure
they'll be prosecuted to the full extent of the law," said New York University
Prof. Stephen J. Schulhofer, author of "The Enemy Within: Intelligence
Gathering, Law Enforcement and Civil Liberties in the Wake Of Sept. 11."

"But in cases where policy judgment is involved, I would expect him to take a
more expansive view of the Second Amendment and, perhaps, a more restrictive
view of registration laws."

Ashcroft's tendency has been to push for less stringent regulations. For
example, the law mandating background checks on gun buyers requires the FBI to
destroy those records after 90 days. Ashcroft's regulation called for destroying
the records after 24 hours.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms has clashed in the past with the
FBI, trading blame for law enforcement disasters such as the fiery conclusion of
the 1993 standoff with Branch Davidians in Waco, Tex.

Just last week, as Congress was poised to approve the plan that would move ATF
to the Justice Department, a draft FBI report surfaced that was highly critical
of ATF explosives training and ability to handle major investigations.

The report suggests that the ATF stick to regulating explosives and weapons and
training bomb- sniffing dogs, and that complete control of explosives- and
firearms-related probes be given to the FBI. Once the report became public, FBI
Director Robert Mueller was quick to state that its opinions did not reflect
those of upper management.

Art Gordon, who represents fellow ATF agents' interests before the Federal Law
Enforcement Officers Association, said Ashcroft will become mediator of such
disputes at the Justice Department.

"I personally think that (memo) was maybe a few people in the FBI trying to
protect their turf," Gordon said. "Right now, we're in Treasury, we respond to
bombings and arsons and church fires and so does the FBI. Onc e we move into the
Justice Department, it's going to eliminate the middlemen. Now when you have the
director of ATF and the director of the FBI both working with John Ashcroft, he
can say, 'Gentlemen, step into my office and we gotta get it resolved.' We think
it's going to be a good deal. We think it will free up the FBI to work more
terrorism cases, which is what everyone seems to want."

New freedom, new challenges

Many suggest that the departure of INS will free up Ashcroft, as well.

The Justice Department under Ashcroft has devoted enormous energy to plans to
retool the agency and to separate its enforcement duties, such as deportation
and border protection, from its service functions, such as issuing green cards
and processing citizenship applications.

"The loss of INS is huge," said Eric Holder, deputy attorney general from 1997
to 2000. "On a day to day basis, that will fundamentally affect the work of the
leadership at the Justice Department.

"At Justice, you spend a significant portion of your time dealing with
INS-related issues and INS-related problems."

But the transfer of those issues to another department may bring new challenges
to Ashcroft where law enforcement and immigration issues intersect, as they have
frequently since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Holder said.

"With the loss of the (INS) enforcement side, it makes it a little more
difficult to employ the use of a tool that this administration has very
effectively used in combating terrorism," Holder said. "Say, if you want to use
an immigration basis to hold somebody. If the FBI has intelligence that someone
who is illegally in this country is an al-Qaida supporter, it's one thing when
the FBI is just communicating within the Justice Department. It's a whole other
thing when the FBI has to communicate with another Cabinet agency. You have to
form a way to have these agencies talk to each other. You have to somehow get to
the informality that made the use of that INS tool so effective."

One piece of the immigration enforcement will remain under Ashcroft's control:
the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which includes 228 immigration court
judges nationwide, as well as the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Ashcroft has not been shy about wielding his control over that body. He directed
the chief immigration judge to write a memo after the 9-11 attacks, ordering
judges to close to the public and seal the records of the immigration hearings
of detainees deemed to be of particular interest to the probe. That memo is
being challenged in a number of lawsuits. Ashcroft has ultimate authority over
the appeals board and can overturn its decisions.

The president of the National Association of Immigration Judges said she expects
Ashcroft to wield more authority over the immigration courts. But she said
that's much preferable to the current situation, in which the attorney general
was boss of both INS and the immigration courts.

"The schizophrenic mission that he had in the past -- having to be a tough
enforcement guy and then trying to be the leader of the court, which is supposed
to be totally neutral -- that's got to be a difficult role to balance," said
Judge Dana Marks Keener, president of the judges group and an immigration judge
in San Francisco. "That's why we felt like the Cinderellas of the Department of
Justice compared to the INS, which was so much bigger. Now, instead of being the
stepchild, hopefully we'll be the doted-upon only child. But, as with any
parent-child relationship, Dad's going to have more time to be breathing down
our necks."

=====

THE NEWS: The Justice Department will lose the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to the newly created Department of Homeland Security, but gain a crime-
fighting agency -- the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

THE IMPACT: The shifts will allow Attorney General John Ashcroft the time and
freedom to focus purely on law enforcement as well as strengthen his influence
over the nation's gun laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: HOMELAND SECURITY ACT; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; COLOR PHOTO by ANDREW CUTRARO / POST-DISPATCH - U.S.
Attorney General John Ashcroft will face new challenges under a major
anti-terrorism reorganization, including the mediation of turf battles between
the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.  GRAPHIC GRAPHIC;
Graphic Chart - From existing pieces and plans, a domestic security department:;
; CABINET POSTS; AGRICULTURE, ATTORNEY GENERAL, COMMERCE, DEFENSE, EDUCATION,
ENERGY, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, HOMELAND SECURITY, HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT, INTERIOR, LABOR, STATE, TRANSPORTATION, TREASURY, VETERANS AFFAIRS;
; TOTAL BUDGET REQUEST; $37,450,000,000; TOTAL WORKERS 169,154 ; SECRET SERVICE;
SECRET SERVICE TREASURY DEPARTMENT $1,248,000,000 ................ 6,111
INFORMATION ANALYSIS AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION; ; NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
SYSTEM DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; $155,000,000 ................... 91 NATIONAL
INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION CENTER FBI; $151,000,000 ........................ 795
; CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE ASSURANCE OFFICE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; $27,000,000
......... 65 ; NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE SIMULATION AND ANALYSIS CENTER ENERGY
DEPARTMENT; $20,000,000................ 2 ; FEDERAL COMPUTER INCIDENT RESPONSE
CENTER GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION; $11,000,000............... 23; ;
CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR COUNTERMEASURES; ; CIVILIAN
BIODEFENSE RESEARCH PROGRAMS HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES; $1,993,000,000 .........
150 ; LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY ENERGY DEPARTMENT;
$1,188,000,000.................. 324 ; NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL WARFARE DEFENSE
ANALYSIS CENTER PROPOSED IN FISCAL 2003 BUDGET; $420,000,000 ................. -
; PLUM ISLAND ANIMAL DISEASE CENTER AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT;
$25,000,000................ 124; ; EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE; ;
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY INDEPENDENT; $6,174,000,000................
5,135 ; OFFICE OF DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS JUSTICE DEPARTMENT Budget/workers
included with FEMA ; CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR RESPONSE
UNITS
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES     ; $2,104,000,000.......... 150 ; NUCLEAR INCIDENT
RESPONSE TEAM
ENERGY DEPARTMENT     ;$91,000,000.............. Classified ; NATIONAL DOMESTIC
PREPAREDNESS OFFICE FBI; $2,000,000................... 15 ; DOMESTIC EMERGENCY
SUPPORT TEAM VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS Budget/workers included with others ; BORDER
AND TRANSPORTATION SECURITY; ; COAST GUARD TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT;
$7,274,000,000......... 43,639 ; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT; $6,416,000,000................ 39,459 ; TRANSPORTATION SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT; $4,800,000,000.......... 41,300 ;
CUSTOMS SERVICE TREASURY DEPARTMENT; $3,796,000,000................ 21,743 ;
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT;
$1,137,000,000............. 8,620 ; FEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICES GENERAL SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION; $418,000,000 ........... 1,408; ; KEY; AGENCY OR DEPARTMENT;
DEPARTMENT THEY ARE UNDER NOW; BUDGET REQUEST NO. OF WORKERS; ; Note: 1) Number
of employees in each agency or department is estimated. 2) Figures are from
President George W. Bush's budget for the 2003 ; fiscal year. Source: The White
House, New York Times, Associated Press

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              85 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 1, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

WEB OF INTRIGUE: LAW FIRM'S STAFFERS MAY GET MORE WORK IF SOFTWARE IS BOUGHT

BYLINE: Jerry Berger

SECTION: NEWS ; Jerry Berger Column; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 646 words


GREEN CARDS: Employees at a certain U. City law firm had better find a copy of
Friday's Chicago Tribune. Their boss, vet immigration lawyer Robert A. Cox, was
spotted by the Trib's reporter pricing a new software program that lets clients
use the Internet for most immigration documents, tracks cases and lets lawyers
talk to clients without actually visiting the office. "It would replace a huge
amount of overhead in my office," Cox told the Trib. "And the same employees can
(be freed up) to do at least tw ice as much work."

HOT TIME: Hometown rapper Nelly tossed a private soiree Wednesday night to
celebrate his manager Jesse Dawson's 27th birthday (on the 27th) at the King Cat
Club at the Ameristar Casino in St. Charles. On hand were Nelly's flack, Jane
Higgins, and 93 of his closest pals, including those from Lozanges. After
enjoying the chic ambiance of the club and imbibing some specialty cocktails,
the group hit the casino until sunrise.

SWEET TOOTH: Hometowner Jenn Milton, who ankled our town a few years ago to work
successfully as a thesp, scribe and producer in ChiTown, has been quietly
scouting locations in the CWE and the Washington Avenue Loft District for a
local iteration of her latest enterprise: Tribal Chocolates, a moniker meant to
evoke a couple of thousand years of sweet evolution since the native American
(as in central America) discovery of the cacao bean.

FROM THE BERGERMEISTER: Faced with the unenviable task of sorting through a
mountain of new duties at the St. Louis Public Safety Department, it is no
wonder that new director Sam Simon took great pleasure in his last official duty
as city assessor. Simon reports that property values have risen in the city by
12 percent - in some city nabes by 40 percent. ... The recent outbreak in
police-related shootings - a direct result says St. Louis Police Chief Joe Mokwa
of a deliberate strategy worked out with St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay to crack
down in high crime neighborhoods while increasing the level of city services -
is already paying dividends. While violent crime in many major cities is
trending upward, the local murder rate is down 20 percent, down even more than
NYC's 13 percent decline. ... Public employees, like firefighters and teachers,
received a second setback in their long-running efforts to strengthen their
rights to bargain as a group. The Missouri Supreme Court sent Thruston v.
Jefferson City School District back to the court of appeals last week with
instructions that make it likely that the entire case will be dismissed. A
separate statewide referendum that would have allowed firefighters to negotiate
as a group failed in November. Ron Gladney repped the disappointed appellants.
Our town's Crotzer & Ford filed briefs supporting the respondents for the
Missouri State School Boards Association. Michael A. Wolff, the acting chief
justice of the state's top court, signed the order. ... Anheuser-Busch has
sought, and gained, city approval to use an area south of the World's Largest
Brewery for additional parking and equipment staging as part of a planned
expansion.

SLICES OF LIFE: A city whose growth is being fueled by equal parts of newly
arrived immigrants looking for opportunities and professionals returning to
their roots in search of shorter commutes and better housing stock cannot afford
to ignore life's staples. At the urging of Alderman Stephen Gregali, St. Louis
Development officials have approved the sale of the building at 4760 South Grand
as a bakery catering to Bosnian tastes, and the former Subway Shop on Cherokee
Street as the new home of urban chic Black Bear Bakery.

BOOK MARK: Biographer and novelist A.E. Hotchner, the pride of Soldan High
School's English department, one of Joe Edwards' Delmar stars and an expatriate
St. Louis attorney, has published a new book, "The Day I Fired Alan Ladd."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              86 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 25, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

PARENTS GET OK TO STAY IN U.S. WHILE THEIR SON GETS TREATMENT FOR LEUKEMIA;
 DENVER RESIDENTS RALLY TO HELP RAISE MONEY FOR MEXICAN FAMILY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: DENVER


Immigration officials will let a Mexican couple living in the United States
illegally stay in the country while their 5-year-old son is treated for
leukemia.

"This is going to be a very special Christmas for everything that has happened,"
Susana Nieto said in Spanish.

Nieto's son Oscar Hernandez has had leukemia for a year and is receiving
chemotherapy. Doctors say a bone-marrow transplant is the best hope to save his
life. His brother Jonathan, 7, is a match.

Besides the couple, two of their children who are in the country without
permission were granted humanitarian parole by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Another child, like Oscar, was born in the United
States.

The parole was granted for six months and may be extended, said the agency's
Michael Comfort.

Children's Hospital says the procedure will cost $314,000. Although the family
has no health insurance, the Denver area rallied around the family this month as
news of their plight spread.

Children emptied piggy banks. Students took up collections at schools. One woman
donated a fur coat; another gave a diamond ring. So far, the efforts have
brought in $287,000.

Among those helping to raise money is U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo. - an
outspoken opponent of illegal immigration. In fall, he had sought the
deportation of another Mexican family after reading about one son who couldn't
afford college because federal law bans financial aid for illegal immigrants.

But Tancredo spokeswoman Lara Kennedy said last week: "He's not playing politics
here. The bottom line: A child's life was at hand."

Leukemia, a cancer of the bone marrow and blood, is the most common childhood
cancer. About 2,700 American children under 15 will be diagnosed this year,
according to the American Cancer Society.

Oscar spent more than a week at the hospital for an infection but is home now,
so the family will be together for Christmas. Thursday, Oscar will return to the
hospital for more chemotherapy.

Surgery can't occur until Oscar reaches remission and the hospital has the money
for the procedure, officials said.

Some health care experts allege that Children's Hospital is overcharging the
family, saying the hospital's quoted price is significantly higher than what
Oscar's family would pay if they had insurance.

"The real cost for treating him is probably $200,000," said J.D. Kleinke, a
health care economist and author of "Oxymorons: The Myth of a U.S. Healthcare
System."

The hospital denied it is asking for too much money. "We are doing everything we
can for this family," said Len Dryer, chief financial officer for Children's.

Nieto and her husband, Pedro Hernandez, said they are overwhelmed by the help
they've received. "We never thought we'd get this kind of response from the
community," Nieto said. "It gives us hope."

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by SAMMY DALLAL/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS - Pedro Hernandez
tries to comfort his son Oscar, 5, at Children's Hospital in Denver. Oscar is
receiving chemotherapy for his leukemia.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              87 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 26, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ARRESTS OF MIDDLE EASTERNERS PROMPT SUIT OVER VISA RULES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Groups representing Middle Easterners are seeking an injunction to bar the
federal government from making future arrests under rules adopted in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

The suit, which seeks class-action status, also asks a federal court to prevent
the detention without bail or deportation of detainees who "have avenues
available to legalize their status."

At least 400 men were arrested in Southern California on visa violation charges
when immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria went to Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices last week to register as required under the new
policy. Many claimed the violations were caused by slow paperwork processing by
the Immigration Service.

Most of those arrested were in Southern California, where all but 23 had been
released by last week. But many of those who were freed still face immigration
hearings and some could face deportation.

The arrests prompted outrage and protests, especially by Iranian-Americans who
charged that many of those held were in the process of becoming legal residents
and were arrested without warrants or access to legal help.

"They're doing everything that the government wants them to do ... and they're
being detained. There's no due process," said Jason Erb of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations in Washington, one of the groups that filed the suit
Tuesday.

"We're not challenging the right of the government to keep track of people who
visit the country," Erb said. "We're critical of the way it's being done. We're
critical of mass arrests of people who are trying to follow all the rules."

The U.S. Justice Department, which oversees the Immigration Service, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. But Jorge Martinez, a department spoke sman, defended
the registration requirement.

He said most of the detentions happened in Southern California, which has a
large Iranian-American population, because many people waited until the day of
the deadline to register and they had to be detained for background checks.

Although national figures from the 53 Immigration Service offices across the
country had not been tallied yet, Martinez said there were only a handful of
detentions outside Southern California.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              88 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 5, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

SOME CRY FOUL OVER DISPARITY IN IMMIGRATION REGISTRATION

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1264 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WAR ON TERRORISM

The scene played out over and over last month at immigration offices from Boston
to San Diego. Men from five Muslim nations lined up to be fingerprinted and
photographed as part of a new anti-terrorism plan to keep tabs on foreign
visitors in the United States.

The consistency ended there. In Southern California, hundreds of men were
detained for expired visas, even when the Immigration and Naturalization Service
knew many had pending applications at the same office to become permanent
residents. In Detroit, no one was detained under the same circumstances.

In San Francisco, two Canadian citizens born in Iran were told they didn't have
to register. At the neighboring San Jose office, two other Canadians who were
born in Iran showed up to register after the Dec. 16 deadline - and were
incarcerated.

All the men provided passports and photo identification, but some offices wanted
to see more, according to an American Immigration Lawyers Association survey:
bank account numbers, credit cards, ATM cards, health insurance, video-rental
cards and library cards.

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez said such information was taken only
as a second form of I.D. "It won't be used for anything," he said.

But that hasn't reassured critics of the registration program unveiled last year
by Attorney General John Ashcroft as part of a broad Justice Department strategy
to prevent terrorist attacks. Ashcroft said the program, initially for visitors
from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria, would give the government "a better
understanding of who is entering and exiting our country."

A second phase of the program is now under way to register male visitors from 13
more nations, who must appear for fingerprinting at INS offices by Friday.

The mass arrests in California prompted two lawsuits attempting to temper or do
away with the program. And some say the arrests and the inconsistency will deter
many from registering under the program, which is targeting the wrong people.

"We have an obligation to not simply allow them to sit in jail for bureaucratic
reasons," said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., a grandson of a Lebanese immigrant
who intends to raise questions about the policies in Congress. "They came in
voluntarily. The bad guys are not going to come in to register."

Judith Golub, of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said: "Instead of
identifying terrorists, they're using it to identify and detain people who are
in the process of adjusting their status. . . . Why would you spend your
resources detaining people with a claim to legal status? It's ill-conceived, it
targets the wrong people."

Farah Ramchandani, an Iranian-American social worker in Los Angeles, said many
of the hundreds detained when they went in to register last month were longtime
residents of the United States, with families and jobs. She gave as an example
an Iranian man who had first arrived as a student 23 years ago and had since
married a U.S. citizen. He had long ago filed for an adjustment of status - and
the INS office was aware of his whereabouts. Yet he was detained for 19 days
before he was freed on bond, pending a deportation hearing.

"Enforcing the law"

About 400 men were detained in Southern California when they appeared on Dec. 16
to register with the INS, according to Martinez, the Justice Department
spokesman. Less than two dozen remain in custody - because their names showed up
in a check of law enforcement databases. He said he did not have numbers of
nationwide detentions.

"It is the duty and responsibility, according to outstanding policies and
procedures, that when they encounter an alien who is out of status, those
individuals have to be temporarily detained until background checks are
conducted," Martinez said. "If nothing negative comes back, then these
individuals are released either on bond or on their own recognizance."

John Keeley, a spokesman for the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates
stricter controls on immigration, said the detentions were sound policy - and
should be continued.

"All the Justice Department is doing is enforcing the law," Keeley said. "What
has the ethnic groups up in arms is, all of a sudden, the government wants to
enforce immigration law. It startled observers because it was a departure from
the glaringly conspicuous lack of enforcement that has fostered the lawlessness
that categorizes our immigration system."

Yet that policy appears to differ broadly from place to place, according to the
survey of immigration lawyers. At INS offices in Boston and Houston, for
instance, lawyers reported that registrants whose visas had lapsed but who had
pending applications were not detained. In Cincinnati, they were arrested. In
Cleveland, detention is decided on a case-by-case basis.

Illegals stay away

In St. Louis, home to an INS sub-office that handles registrations from Southern
Illinois as well, officer in charge Chester Moyer said just one person of the
230 who have registered to date has been detained. He is an Iranian man who had
no legal status at all, pending or otherwise, and was freed shortly after he was
detained. Moyer said the St. Louis office decides on a case-by-case basis when
it is faced with a registrant whose visa has long ago lapsed - but has an
application pending before INS to be come a legal resident.

"You look at aggravating factors, whether they have any documents at all, how
many times they've tried to come into the country," Moyer said. "If they're
wanted or indicted by another agency, you would take them and hold them.
Otherwise, it's always case-by-case."

The Iranian detainee's attorney, Barbara Bleisch, said her client arrived at the
INS office in St. Louis to pick up paperwork to apply for legalized status:
"While he was there, he decided to do the right thing and register, and they
wouldn't let him leave. . . . But they were really kind about (the bond). He
could have sat in jail for another three weeks, but when we provided enough
documentation, they allowed him to bond out."

Bleisch said had the man asked her advice beforehand, she would have advised him
not to register at all - even though not doing so is considered a criminal
violation and a deportable offense.

"I think the advice is getting around the immigrant community that if you don't
have lawful papers, you shouldn't register. If you're already deportable, you
haven't made it any worse."

Peter Schey, a lawyer with of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional
Law, has filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of those who have immigration
applications pending - and who fear they, too, will be arrested if they show up
for registration.

The suit seeks to put an end to the detentions of such immigrants when they come
in to an INS office to register.

"Given what happened in L.A., unless the community can get a clear signal that
this is not how business is going to be done in the future, a lot of people are
not going to register at the next deadline," Schey said.

Martinez, the Justice Department spokesman, said: "We hope that those required
to register comply with the requirements. We expect a successful registration
period as we saw with the first notice."

===

NEWS: Concerns are rising as the second phase of the INS registration process
that began last year in an effort to thwart terrorism gets under way.

ANALYSIS: Proponents say the process is necessary in a society that is so open
to foreigners. Opponents say innocent immigrants are being wrongly grouped with
dangerous individuals.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso of the Post-Dispatch's Washington
bureau covers the Justice Department and national political issues.

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              89 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 11, 2003 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS RUSH TO BEAT DEADLINE FOR REGISTRATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch Contributed
To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Facing a Friday deadline, thousands of men from 13 mostly Arab or Muslim
countries lined up to register with U.S. immigration authorities under a
post-Sept. 11 crackdown that has alarmed civil liberties groups and stirred
fears of mass arrests.

Lisa Hinks, a British executive, clutched her baby and wept as she arrived at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Los Angeles with her
Tunisian-born husband. She said she learned about the deadline watching TV.

"Nobody told us about it, nobody," she said. "Immigration has our details. It
makes us feel like criminals."

Civil liberties advocates say the program is an inefficient way to find
terrorists and will alienate people who could help the government. Allegations
that innocent people were arrested during the first phase of the program last
month have led to demands for a Justice Department investigation.

About 7,200 men and boys age 16 or older were expected to check in with INS
offices around the country. The program was publicized nationally on radio, TV
and the INS's Web site, according to an agency spokesman in Newark, N.J.

In St. Louis, officials detained at least two people in recent days, said Bill
Ramsey, head of the Human Rights Action Service, which is monitoring the
registration.

A Tunisian man was taken into custody Wednesday afternoon when he came to
register at the INS office in the Robert A. Young Federal Building downtown,
Ramsey said.

Ramsey said the man, who is married to an American citizen, had a lapsed student
visa. The man remained in custody Friday.

INS officials detained a second man after he arrived at the office at about 1
p.m. Friday with a lawyer, Ramsey said. INS officials declined to comment, and
Ramsey did not know the man's citizenship.

Volunteers in Ramsey's organization were distributing literature to those who
appeared at the office to register. The literature, produced by the American
Civil Liberties Union, explains the registration process in several languages,
advises the visitors of their rights if they are detained and of their right to
have an attorney accompany them during registration. The ACLU also offers legal
service.

Last month, some 400 immigrants were arrested - most in Southern California -
when they came forward to be photographed, fingerprinted and questioned. Most
have been released on bail, but activists said the names and whereabouts of
dozens more remain unclear.

INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute said steps were being taken to avoid large-scale
detentions like those last month.

===

Registration deadlines

Immigration and Naturalization Service deadlines for temporary male visitors 16
and older:

Dec. 16, 2002: From Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria

Jan. 10: From Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North
Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen

Feb. 21: From Saudi Arabia and Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Activists depict the detention
of immigrants during a protest Friday outside the Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in Los Angeles.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              90 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 16, 2003 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

SOME JUSTICES FIND NO FAULT WITH INDEFINITE, NO-BAIL DETENTIONS;
 ACLU PRESSES COURT TO STRIKE DOWN 1996 IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Civil rights lawyers urged the Supreme Court on Wednesday to strike down a law
requiring immigrants convicted of certain crimes to be locked up indefinitely -
even after serving their sentences - until a deportation hearing is held.

The case predates the Sept. 11 attacks. But it puts the court in a debate over
the rights and treatment of immigrants and raises some of the same civil
liberties questions posed on behalf of foreigners since the government has taken
steps to keep better track of them after the attacks.

Wednesday's hearing was the first time since the attacks that the justices
debated a case with direct implications for the government's war on terrorism,
although the attacks were not mentioned during the arguments.

Solicitor General Theodore Olson told the justices that the case was about
public safety and immigrants who break the law and no longer have a right to be
in America.

The justices will decide by this summer if the government can lock up without
bail immigrants who have been convicted of certain felonies, served their time
and are awaiting deportation proceedings, which can take years.

Many justices seemed untroubled by a mandatory detention law of 1996 that does
not allow for a bond hearing at which immigrants could try to win release by
arguing they are not a public safety risk.

"That doesn't strike me as terribly unreasonable. Just don't do the felony,"
Justice Antonin Scalia said.

Judy Rabinovitz, an American Civil Liberties Union attorney, told the justices
that some people who are jailed are not dangerous and would not flee if they
were released on bail. She also said not all immigrants who are imprisoned end
up being deported.

Chief Justice William Rehnquist said Congress had a valid reason to impose the
mandatory jailings - data showing that more than 20 percent of criminal aliens
who were allowed to remain free during deportations proceedings fled.

"We don't allow people to be locked up based on averages," Rabinovitz responded
in a sharp back-and-forth exchange.

In another matter, President George W. Bush's administration argued that the
federal guarantee of 12 weeks off to care for chil dren or ailing relatives
should apply to every worker, as the Supreme Court considered scaling back a law
intended to ease work and family conflicts.

At issue is Congress' power to require that states grant time off to their own
state workers and the ability of state workers to sue if they think their leave
rights were violated.

In passing the Family and Medical Leave Act in 1993, Congress said it was acting
in part to stop discrimination against both women and men.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              91 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 18, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

KANSAS MAN SHOULD BE DEPORTED, APPEALS JUDGES IN ST. LOUIS SAY;
HE HAD OVERSTAYED VISA, SOUGHT ASYLUM IN U.S.

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 248 words


Federal appeals judges in St. Louis rejected on Thursday a request for political
asylum from a man in Kansas who says he fears persecution if forced to go home
to Yemen.

A three-judge panel of the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld an immigration
judge's ruling that ordered Mohammed Marah, of Topeka, deported for overstaying
a temporary visa issued in 1991.

Marah said that he came to the United States to work for a Saudi Arabian prince
undergoing psychiatric treatment in Topeka. He said he was blamed by the royal
family for the prince's failure to respond, and that a sister of the prince
threatened him with death.

Marah could not be reached for comment.

He argued in court papers that he feared persecution in Yemen because shortly
before the Persian Gulf War began in 1991, he criticized Yemen's rulers in an
interview with a newspaper in Saudi Arabia, where he then lived.

Marah said that days later he got a letter summoning him to the Yemeni consulate
in Saudi Arabia. A friend who received a similar summons was jailed and
disappeared, Marah said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service argued that Marah's fear was
"speculative at best," and noted that he was able to renew his Yemeni passport.

The agency said it never intended to return him to Saudi Arabia.

In dismissing his case, the appeals court said Marah's fear was "based on an
isolated incident" that occurred about six years before an immigration judge
denied his asylum request in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA AT WAR : REBUILDING IRAQ; Reporter Peter Shinkle:; E-mail:
pshinkle@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-621-5804; ; See related stories also on
this page:; * "U.S. finds field of unmarked graves in Kirkuk"; * "U.S. firm wins
major contract for Iraq's rebuilding"; * "POWER VACUUM"; * "EU backs lifting
sanctions but wants U.N. role"; ; * See related America At War stories on Page
A1, A6 and A9.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              92 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 25, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SECURITY CONCERNS CAN KEEP ALIENS IN JAIL, ASHCROFT SAYS;
IMMIGRANT ADVOCATES SAY ORDER IS ABUSE OF POWER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Most illegal immigrants can be jailed indefinitely without bail when national
security risks exist, Attorney General John Ashcroft has declared in a legal
opinion. Immigration advocates are calling that an abuse of power in the name of
fighting terrorism.

The order means such aliens will not be released on bail while their cases are
being decided by immigration judges if the government can show national security
issues are involved.

"Such national security considerations clearly constitute a reasonable
foundation for the exercise of my discretion to deny release on bond," Ashcroft
said in the 19-page opinion, which was signed April 18.

The opinion was requested by the Homeland Security Department, which now
enforces most immigration laws, after the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld a
judge's decision to release Haitian asylum-seeker David Joseph on $2,500 bond.

Cheryl Little, executive director of Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said
Ashcroft's opinion is the latest in a string of government decisions
"manipulating our very serious national security concerns to justify targeting
nationals of Haiti." Advocates for Latino and Muslim immigrants made similar
comments on behalf of their constituencies.

Ashcroft's opinion says the attorney general has broad discretion in determining
the status of would-be immigrants.

In the David Joseph case, which prompted Ashcroft's legal opinion, the
immigration judge and appeals board concluded they did not have authority to
deny bail based on the national security concerns cited by the government, which
has sought to detain more illegal immigrants since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.

Joseph was among the 216 Haitians who arrived in Miami by boat Oct. 29, then
leaped from the craft into Biscayne Bay and ran along a major causeway. The
scene was captured live on television.

Several federal agencies have opposed the release of the Haitians on bail,
arguing it could trigger a wave of immigrants attempting to reach U.S. shores.
That would overtax the strained Coast Guard, Border Patrol and other agencies,
and interfere with their anti-terrorism activities, the government said.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              93 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 30, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HIGH COURT UPHOLDS DETENTION IN SOME DEPORTATION CASES;
NONCITIZENS WHO HAVE SERVED SENTENCES MAY BE HELD AND DENIED BAIL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government may jail legal immigrants who have committed serious crimes to
ensure that while they are waiting for deportation hearings, they neither flee
nor commit new crimes, the Supreme Court ruled Tuesday.

The 5-4 decision applies to noncitizens who already have served their sentences.

More than 75,000 such people have been jailed without bail since the law
allowing such detentions took effect in 1996.

Thousands of legal permanent residents are now out on bail while they await
deportation or try to fight it - a process that can take months or years.
Federal appeals courts covering California and more than a dozen other states
had been allowing bail in some cases despite the 1996 law, and most of those
immigrants could be brought back to jail under Tuesday's ruling.

The ruling was a victory for President George W. Bush's administration.
Officials in the administration are also claiming latitude to jail immigrants
and others who may be linked to terrorism and to close deportation immigration
hearings for others swept up after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
Although the case raised questions about who may be detained and for how long,
lawyers disagreed whether the ruling was indicative of the court's views on
civil liberties challenges in the wake of 9-11.

Judy Rabinovitz of the American Civil Liberties Union called Tuesday's ruling
"very disappointing, and what it means is that large numbers of legal, permanent
residents are going to be detained" for months or longer.

Rabinovitz represented Hyung Joon Kim, who came to the United States from South
Korea when he was 6. At 18, he was arrested for breaking into a tool shed and
was sent to prison in California.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco sided with Kim, ruling
that his constitu

tional rights had been violated when he was denied bail.

Tuesday's majority opinion was written by Chief Justice William Rehnquist. He
cited what he called a compelling reason to lock up people like Kim.

"Congress, justifiably concerned that deportable criminal aliens who are not
detained continue to engage in crime and fail to appear for their removal
hearings in large numbers, may require that persons such as (Kim) be detained
for the brief period necessary for their removal proceedings," he wrote.

Joining Rehnquist were Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, Anthony
Kennedy and Clarence Thomas.

In a dissent, Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and
Stephen Breyer argued that Kim was a legal resident of the United States and
thus had more rights than an illegal immigrant.

Souter wrote: "This case is not about the national government's undisputed power
to detain aliens in order to prevent flight or to prevent danger to the
community. The issue is whether that power may be exercised by detaining a still
lawful permanent resident alien when there is no reason for it and no way to
challenge it."

Breyer objected to the majority's assertion that Kim's admission to his crime
made him eligible for deportation. Kim admitted to no such thing, Breyer wrote,
and should have the opportunity to make his case in a bond hearing.

The court acted in an appeal from the administration, which defended the 1996
law requiring the detention of foreigners con victed of a range of felonies
pending detention proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              94 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 28, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

JUSTICES DECLINE TO HEAR CHALLENGE TO SECRET IMMIGRATION HEARINGS;
COURT'S LACK OF ACTION LETS CONTRADICTORY LOWER COURT RULINGS STAND

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court declined Tuesday to hear a challenge of Attorney General John
Ashcroft's decision to hold immigration hearings secretly for hundreds of people
detained in the post-Sept. 11 terrorism investigation.

The justices' decision, made without comment, let stand a ruling from the 3rd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia that bolstered Ashcroft's argument
that national security concerns outweighed public access to such hearings.

The 3rd Circuit decision upholding the secret hearings applies to Delaware, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania and the Virgin Islands. But because the Supreme Court did
not review the 3rd Circuit decision, a totally opposite ruling involving a
Michigan case still stands in the 6th Circuit, covering Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio
and Tennessee. There, the federal appeals judges ruled that secret immigrations
hearings were unconstitutional.

The Justice Department has not decided whether to appeal the 6th Circuit ruling.

Ashcroft said in a statement Tuesday: "The Third Circuit's decision recognized
that open deportation hearings would reveal sensitive information about our
ongoing terrorism investigation and aid terrorists targeting our nation and
people.

"This authority to close hearings is an important, constitutional tool in this
time of war, when we face an unparalleled threat from covert and unknown foes
spread across the globe."

A group of newspapers in New Jersey - where many of the secret hearings are
believed to have been held - challenged the rule, citing public and news media
First Amendment rights. The American Civil Liberties Union urged the Supreme
Court to review 3rd Circuit's decision because it conflicted with the Michigan
ruling that said the secret hearings violated the Constitution's First
Amendment.

"Although we're disappointed the court did not take this opportunity to review
these critically important issues, the ultimate goal was to change the policy,
and the government says that revision process is under way," said Lee Gelernt,
staff counsel for the ACLU. He was referring to a Justice Department brief that
said the department was rethinking the secret hearings.

"Special interest" aliens

The issue arose 10 days after the terrorist attacks, when Chief Immigration
Judge Michael Creppy put out the word to the nation's immigration judges that
Ashcroft was requiring certain hearings to be closed to the public. He told the
judges to avoid discussing the cases, or even listing them on court dockets.

Immigration courts are administrative courts under Ashcroft's purview at the
Justice Department.

Since then, Ashcroft has designated 766 detainees as "special interest" cases
under the policy, and 611 of them have had secret hearings, according to a brief
filed by Solicitor General Ted Olson with the Supreme Court. About 505 were
deported, he said, and the "special interest" designation was dropped in other
cases.

"Indeed, immigration proceedings have now been completed for virtually all of
the 'special interest' aliens nationwide. As of the filing of this brief, only
one 'special interest' alien faces any realistic possibility of future
immigration proceedings before an immigration judge," Olson wrote.

He urged the Supreme Court not to review the case because of national security
concerns - and because Justice Department officials are revamping the policy.

"Because changes resulting from this ongoing review process could alter
substantially the very framework in which the constitutional question arose in
this case ... review at this juncture would be premature," Olson wrote.

Michigan case

The other challenge to the secret hearings was in Michigan, where the Detroit
Free Press wanted access to the hearings for Rabih Haddad, a founder of the
Illinois-based Global Relief Foundation, which the Treasury Department has
accused of funneling money to terrorists.

The Cincinnati-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the public has a
First Amendment right to attend hearings in immigration courts just as they do
in regular criminal court proceedings.

Because the Supreme Court chose Tuesday not to make an ultimate review of the
issue, the ruling in the Michigan case still stands.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION - NATIONAL FOCUS; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Attorney General John) Ashcroft; Ordered
closed hearings

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 5, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 626 words


BOSTON

Judge is placed on leave after Tarzan quip to Jane

An immigration judge was placed on administrative leave Monday after complaints
that he made jokes about Tarzan to a woman who had been raped and tortured in
her native Uganda.

The woman, whose first name is Jane, went before Judge Thomas Ragno in June,
seeking political asylum in the United States because her husband was killed and
she was beaten, raped and tortured in her homeland.

"Jane, come here. Me Tarzan!" Ragno said, according to the woman's physician,
Dr. Sondra Crosby, who attended the deportation hearing June 20 to testify about
the woman's injuries.

Crosby filed an affidavit protesting Ragno's behavior as part of the woman's
appeal of the judge's rejection of her bid for asylum.

After learning of the complaint, the Executive Office for Immigration Review,
part of the Department of Justice, placed Ragno on paid leave pending an
investigation, said spokesman Greg Gagne.

Ragno, an immigration judge for more than 30 years, did not return a call
seeking comment.

GROTON, Conn.

Jet crashes into homes; 2 on plane are killed

A small business jet crashed into three houses Monday, setting two of them on
fire, then cartwheeled into a river. Both people aboard the plane were killed,
authorities said.

Nobody on the ground was seriously hurt. Thirteen people were either left
homeless or told they could not return to nearby homes Monday.

The Learjet was approaching the airport when it slammed into the homes in the
Poquonnock River Bridge section of Groton.

The Learjet went down about a half mile from Groton-New London Airport, Federal
Aviation Administration spokesman Jim Peters said. He said it had taken off from
Farmingdale Republic Airport on New York's Long Island.

The plane is registered to Jetpro LLC, a corporation based at New Hyde Park,
N.Y.

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

Mars mission in 2007 will study ice, soil

A mission to the northern latitudes of Mars to study ice and soil will be
launched in 2007, NASA said Monday.

The unmanned Phoenix lander, scheduled to touch down on Mars in 2008, will
investigate whether subsurface samples of the planet contain organic molecules.
If it proceeds according to plan, the Phoenix will be the first mission of the
Mars Scout program, a $325 million renewed effort to study the red planet.

Two Mars rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, were launched this summer to study
whether the planet ever had enough water to support life. They are scheduled to
land on opposite sides of Mars in January.

FRESNO, Calif.

Woman who started forest fire gets prison

A woman who admitted lighting a camp fire that started the worst fire on record
in the Sequoia National Forest was sentenced Monday to 18 months in prison.

Peri Dare Van Brunt, 46, wept as U.S. District Judge Robert Coyle confirmed the
sentence she had agreed to in a deal with prosecutors.

Van Brunt, of Bakersfield, admitted lighting a camp fire without a permit on
July 21, 2002, so she could cook hot dogs. She has apologized for igniting the
fire.

The guilty plea to three misdemeanor charges included restitution, which Coyle
said he would address later.

BARDSTOWN, Ky.

Jim Beam warehouse catches fire, collapses

Flames engulfed a seven-story bourbon warehouse Monday, sending alcohol-fueled
flames more than 100 feet in the air.

The Jim Beam warehouse collapsed about two hours after the fire was reported at
3 p.m. and continued burning into the evening. The company said the
metal-and-wood structure held about 19,000 barrels of bourbon, or less than 2
percent of its bourbon inventory.

There were no reports of injuries.

The company said in a statement from its headquarters in Deerfield, Ill., that
lightning was to blame.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              96 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    August 5, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 605 words


BOSTON

Judge is placed on leave after Tarzan quip to Jane

An immigration judge was placed on administrative leave Monday after complaints
that he made jokes about Tarzan to a woman who had been raped and tortured in
her native Uganda.

The woman, whose first name is Jane, went before Judge Thomas Ragno in June,
seeking political asylum in the United States because her husband was killed and
she was beaten, raped and tortured in her homeland.

"Jane, come here. Me Tarzan!" Ragno said, according to the woman's physician,
Dr. Sondra Crosby, who attended the deportation hearing June 20 to testify about
the woman's injuries.

Crosby filed an affidavit protesting Ragno's behavior as part of the woman's
appeal of the judge's rejection of her bid for asylum.

After learning of the complaint, the Executive Office for Immigration Review,
part of the Department of Justice, placed Ragno on paid leave pending an
investigation, said spokesman Greg Gagne.

Ragno, an immigration judge for more than 30 years, did not return a call
seeking comment.

GROTON, Conn.

Jet crashes into homes; 2 on plane are killed

A small business jet crashed into three houses Monday, setting two of them on
fire, then cartwheeled into a river. Both people aboard the plane were killed,
authorities said.

Nobody on the ground was seriously hurt. Thirteen people were either left
homeless or told they could not return to nearby homes Monday.

The Learjet was approaching the airport when it slammed into the homes in the
Poquonnock River Bridge section of Groton.

The Learjet went down about a half mile from Groton-New London Airport, Federal
Aviation Administration spokesman Jim Peters said. He said it had taken off from
Farmingdale Republic Airport on New York's Long Island.

The plane is registered to Jetpro LLC, a corporation based at New Hyde Park,
N.Y.

SAN DIEGO

Zoo says giant panda is set to deliver twins

San Diego Zoo officials announced Monday that Bai Yun, a giant panda on loan
from China, is expected to deliver twins sometime this month.

Because panda pregnancies can vary in length by as much as three months,
zookeepers don't know exactly when the babies will be born, or who their father
is.

In March, Bai Yun mated naturally with her new partner, Gao Gao, zoo officials
said. After Gao Gao lost interest in Bai Yun a day later, she was artificially
inseminated with semen from her former mate, Shi Shi.

FRESNO, Calif.

Woman who started forest fire gets prison

A woman who admitted lighting a camp fire that started the worst fire on record
in the Sequoia National Forest was sentenced Monday to 18 months in prison.

Peri Dare Van Brunt, 46, wept as U.S. District Judge Robert Coyle confirmed the
sentence she had agreed to in a deal with prosecutors.

Van Brunt, of Bakersfield, admitted lighting a camp fire without a permit on
July 21, 2002, so she could cook hot dogs. She has apologized for igniting the
fire.

The guilty plea to three misdemeanor charges included restitution, which Coyle
said he would address later.

BARDSTOWN, Ky.

Jim Beam warehouse catches fire, collapses

Flames engulfed a seven-story bourbon warehouse Monday, sending alcohol-fueled
flames more than 100 feet in the air.

The Jim Beam warehouse collapsed about two hours after the fire was reported at
3 p.m. and continued burning into the evening. The company said the
metal-and-wood structure held about 19,000 barrels of bourbon, or less than 2
percent of its bourbon inventory.

There were no reports of injuries.

The company said in a statement from its headquarters in Deerfield, Ill., that
lightning was to blame.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              97 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    August 29, 2003 Friday Five Star Edition

DEPORTATION IS UPHELD FOR SUSPECTED NAZI;
ST. PETERS MAN IS ACCUSED OF SERVING AS GUARD AT CONCENTRATION CAMP

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 398 words


The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals on Thursday upheld the deportation of a
St. Peters man suspected of serving as a guard in a Nazi concentration camp
during World War II, the Department of Justice said.

The appeals board affirmed a decision issued in July last year by the U.S.
Immigration Court in St. Louis that found Michael Negele, 82, served as an armed
SS guard at the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp near Berlin. It also upheld the
immigration court's finding that Negele later served as a guard at the
Theresienstadt Jewish ghetto in what used to be Czechoslovakia.

"The BIA's decision is an important milestone in our continuing efforts to
achieve a measure of justice for the victims of the Holocaust and other Nazi
crimes," said Eli M. Rosenbaum, director of the Justice Department's Criminal
Division's Office of Special Investigations. "Negele and his fellow SS guards
were instrumental participants in the execution of the Nazi regime's infamous
program of persecution and genocide."

Negele's attorney, Warren Hoff, said he had not yet seen the decision. But he
said he and his client would likely appeal to the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals.

U.S. immigration laws were amended in 1978 to exclude anyone who assisted or
participated in Nazi acts of persecution. The amendment, known as the Holtzman
Amendment, also allows deportation of such people.

According to the Department of Justice, Negele admitted in court proceedings
that he guarded the Theresienstadt ghetto with a German shepherd trained to
attack prisoners who attempted escape.

Hoff said it is a question of how the amendment is interpreted.

"(Negele) did not participate in any atrocities personally, and our
interpretation of the law is that he should not be deportable under the Holtzman
Amendment," Hoff said.

Negele, a Romania native, entered the United States in 1950 on a visa he
obtained in Germany. He became a U.S. citizen five years later. In July 1999,
the U.S. District Court in St. Louis revoked Negele's citizenship. Th e 8th
Circuit upheld the decision in August 2000. The U.S. Supreme Court denied
Negele's petition for review in February 2001, and deportation proceedings began
a month later.

Since the creation of the special investigations office in 1979, 72 suspected
Nazis have been stripped of their U.S. citizenship and 57 have been removed from
the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              98 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

          September 11, 2003 Thursday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

A FATHER SAYS GOODBYE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 857 words


* Walid Ghounem, an Egyptian living in Florissant, is being deported.
Authorities say one of his lawyers submitted fraudulent documents and that
Ghounem later missed an immigration court hearing. So he's going -- but his wife
and three children are staying.

They walked into school together Wednesday like any other day, the father
carrying the son's blue bookbag and resting a reassuring arm across his tiny
shoulders.

Inside, he gave the 6-year-old two quick hugs, then two soft kisses on the
cheek. He whispered in his ear.

Without reply, the boy turned, put away his lunch box and shoes and disappeared
into a classroom. He never looked back to see his father's final wave or
lingering, teary-eyed gaze.

Walid Ghounem doesn't know when he will see his son again. Or his two daughters.
Or his wife.

"I told him I will miss him so much," Ghounem said of his brief conversation
with his son, Aly.

Ghounem, 30, left the school, drove downtown and surrendered to immigration
agents. Within 48 hours he would be deported to Egypt.

Some will consider Ghounem -- who had been living in Florissant and working as a
warehouse supervisor -- just another illegal immigrant, one of more than 1
million annually removed from the United States and deserving of his fate.
Immigration officials won't discuss his case, or whether there's any relation to
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. They will say his case is not unique
and that there are thousands of immigrants with similar situations nationwide.

For Ghounem's friends and especially his young American family, his forced
departure is a heart-wrenching turn in a bureaucratic odyssey.

"I really don't know what I'm going to do without him," his wife, Anna, said
wiping back tears. Just moments before, she'd left her husband in the custody of
government agents, who averted their eyes during the couple's final embrace.
"I'm going to miss him so much."

Ghounem (pronounced go-neem) arrived in the United States in July 1994 on a
six-month tourist visa, hoping to stay longer. A man in New York who said he was
a lawyer offered to help Ghounem gain permanent residency. Immigration officials
later told Ghounem that the lawyer had submitted fraudulent documents including
a fake marriage certificate.

The agents allowed Ghounem to keep a work permit, but they kept his passport.
The incident, Ghounem said they told him, would not hurt his chance of becoming
a permanent resident.

In 1996, Ghounem married Anna, an American. Marriage to a U.S. citizen is
typically the gold standard for an immigrant seeking government approval to
become a permanent U.S. resident.

A year later, the couple moved to St. Louis and asked that his immigration file
be transferred as well. After several months of not hearing anything, he went to
the immigration office and was told the file had been lost, and that he would
have to file a new petition for permanent resident status.

In February 2000, his lawyer received a letter saying the government would deny
his petition based on the fraudulent documents. The denial came on Jan. 5, 2001.
He appealed, and was denied again on Jan. 25 last year. He was given until Feb.
25 last year to leave voluntarily or go before an immigration judge for
deportation proceedings.

For months, he waited to tell his story to a judge.

On June 29 last year, Ghounem got a letter saying he had failed to appear in
immigration court three days earlier and, as a result, had been ordered to leave
the country. Both Ghounem and his attorney said they were never told of the
hearing.

The immigration judge and an appeals board rejected his request to reopen the
case. Ghounem's lawyers then filed a motion in the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals. The court denied a request to delay the deportation but has not ruled
on whether to reopen the case.

Ghounem spent Tuesday tying up loose ends, meeting with his lawyer and staying
up late into the night saying goodbye to friends and family. He hopes his
daughters, Naida, 3, and Lyla, 1, are too young to understand.

He tried to answer Aly's questions. How long would he be gone? Could he talk on
the phone? Could he call to go over his homework?

"It's not like he won't see me again," Ghounem said he told him. "Hopefully,
I'll be coming back."

In Egypt, Ghounem can apply to the U.S. Consulate for a waiver that would allow
him to return. But such requests typically take months, and it's uncertain
whether Ghounem's past problems might disqualify him.

For now, Ghounem is reluctant to uproot the family for a move to Egypt. He
couldn't afford to anyway. Anna got laid off in December from her job as a
flight attendant. The family went on welfare in June. They receive $552 a month
in food stamps, an amount that will decrease now that Walid is gone.

He worries about his wife being able to afford to stay in their home.

He worries about his future in Egypt.

And maybe worst of all, he worries if his kids will remember him after he is
gone.

"A father shouldn't have to face that," he said.

* * * * *

STLtoday.com

Link to an earlier story on Walid Ghounem online at STLtoday.com/links

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE HUMAN FACE OF DEPORTATION; Reporter Phillip O'Connor; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photo by J.B. FORBES / Post-Dispatch - Walid Ghounem
takes a final look at his son, Aly, 6, possibly his last for a long time, as he
dropped off the boy Wednesday morning at the Daar-Ul-Islam mosque and Al-Salam
Day School in west St. Louis County. Next to Aly is Ghounem's wife, Anna.; (2)
Photo J.B. FORBES / POST-DISPATCH - Walid Ghounem waits with his lawyer, Pete
Gianino, to be called by immigration officials Wednesday at the Robert A. Young
Federal Building downtown. Authorities said he would be deported to Egypt within
48 hours.

TYPE: PROFILE; WALID GHOEUNEM

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              99 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            September 11, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

A FATHER SAYS GOODBYE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 811 words


* Walid Ghounem, an Egyptian living in Florissant, is being deported.
Authorities say one of his lawyers submitted fraudulent documents and that
Ghounem later missed an immigration court hearing. So he's going -- but his wife
and three children are staying.

They walked into school together Wednesday like any other day, the father
carrying the son's blue bookbag and resting a reassuring arm across his tiny
shoulders.

Inside, he gave the 6-year-old two quick hugs, then two soft kisses on the
cheek. He whispered in his ear.

Without reply, the boy turned, put away his lunch box and shoes and disappeared
into a classroom. He never looked back to see his father's final wave or
lingering, teary-eyed gaze.

Walid Ghounem doesn't know when he will see his son again. Or his two daughters.
Or his wife.

"I told him I will miss him so much," Ghounem said of his brief conversation
with his son, Aly.

Ghounem, 30, left the school, drove down-town and sur-rendered to immigration
agents. Within 48 hours he would be deported to Egypt.

Some will consider Ghounem -- who had been living in Florissant and working as a
warehouse supervisor -- just another illegal immigrant, one of more than 1
million annually removed from the United States and deserving of his fate.
Immigration officials won't discuss his case, or whether there's any relation to
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. They will say his case is not unique.

For Ghounem's friends and especially his young American family, his forced
departure is a heart-wrenching turn in a bureaucratic odyssey.

"I really don't know what I'm going to do without him," his wife, Anna, said
wiping back tears. Just moments before, she'd left her husband in the custody of
government agents, who averted their eyes during the couple's final embrace.
"I'm going to miss him so much."

Ghounem (pronounced go-neem) arrived in the United States in July 1994 on a
six-month tourist visa, hoping to stay longer. A man in New York who said he was
a lawyer offered to help Ghounem gain permanent residency. Immigration officials
later told Ghounem that the lawyer had submitted fraudulent documents including
a fake marriage certificate.

The agents allowed Ghounem to keep a work permit, but they kept his passport.
The incident, Ghounem said they told him, would not hurt his chance of becoming
a permanent resident.

In 1996, Ghounem married Anna, an American. Marriage to a U.S. citizen is
typically the gold standard for an immigrant seeking to become a permanent U.S.
resident.

A year later, the couple moved to St. Louis and asked that his immigration file
be transferred. After several months, he was told the file had been lost, and
that he would have to petition again for permanent resident status.

In February 2000, the government said it would deny his petition based on the
fraudulent documents. The denial came on Jan. 5, 2001. He appealed, and was
denied again on Jan. 25 last year. He was given until Feb. 25 last year to leave
voluntarily or go before an immigration judge for d eportation proceedings.

For months, he waited to tell his story to a judge.

On June 29 last year, Ghounem got a letter saying he had failed to appear in
immigration court three days earlier and had been ordered to leave the country.
Both Ghounem and his attorney said they were never told of the hearing.

The immigration judge and an appeals board rejected his request to reopen the
case. The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals denied a request to delay the
deportation but has not ruled on whether to reopen the case.

Ghounem spent Tuesday tying up loose ends, meeting with his lawyer and staying
up late into the night saying goodbye to friends and family. He hopes his
daughters, Naida, 3, and Lyla, 1, are too young to understand.

He tried to answer Aly's questions. How long would he be gone? Could he talk on
the phone? Could he call to go over his homework? "It's not like he won't see me
again," Ghounem said he told him. "Hopefully, I'll be coming back."

In Egypt, Ghounem can apply to the U.S. Consulate for a waiver that would allow
him to return. But such requests typically take months, and it's uncertain
whether Ghounem's past problems might disqualify him.

For now, Ghounem is reluctant to uproot the family for a move to Egypt. He
couldn't afford to anyway. Anna got laid off in December from her job as a
flight attendant. The family went on welfare in June. They receive $552 a month
in food stamps, an amount that will decrease now that Walid is gone.

He worries about his wife being able to afford to stay in their home. He worries
about his future in Egypt. And maybe worst of all, he worries if his kids will
remember him.

"A father shouldn't have to face that," he said.

* * * * *

STLtoday.com

Link to an earlier story on Walid Ghounem online at STLtoday.com/links

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE HUMAN FACE OF DEPORTATION; Reporter Phillip O'Connor; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photos by J.B. FORBES / Post-Dispatch; (1) Walid Ghounem
takes a final look at his son, Aly, 6, possibly his last for a long time, as he
dropped off the boy Wednesday morning at the Daar-Ul-Islam mosque and Al-Salam
Day School in west St. Louis County. Next to Aly is Ghounem's wife, Anna.; (2)
Walid Ghounem waits with his lawyer, Pete Gianino, to be called by immigration
officials Wednesday at the Robert A. Young Federal Building downtown.
Authorities said he would be deported to Egypt within 48 hours.

TYPE: PROFILE; WALID GHOUNEM

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              100 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            September 25, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

UPDATING THE FREEDOM RIDE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C14

LENGTH: 396 words


IMMIGRANT RIGHTS

TURNING to a tactic from the civil rights movement, several hundred activists
plan to stage a freedom ride across America to call attention to the precarious
legal status of millions of immigrants. The new freedom riders hope to fire up
public and political support for reforming U.S. immigration laws.

This event will be a lot safer than the one staged over four decades ago by
blacks and whites traveling by bus throughout the South to integrate waiting
rooms and terminals. At various stops, the riders took part in rallies. In some
places, they were greeted by violent whites seeking to preserve the status quo
despite a Supreme Court ruling against segregated interstate carriers.

Participants in the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride will board 18 buses in nine
cities in the West and Southwest and head for Washington. Their final
destination will be New York for a rally Oct. 4. Along the many cross-country
routes, the buses will make stops in 103 cities, including one Sunday in St.
Louis, followed by a rally at Kiener Plaza. Speakers are certain to talk about
the need for translators to help break down language barriers when Latinos and
other immigrants need services such as health care, or are questioned by police.

Organizers of the national event say the point of the ride and rallies isn't to
espouse specific legislation. Their broad goal is legal status for undocumented
workers, a clear path to U.S. citizenship and reunification of families.

The AFL-CIO, which represents 60 unions, is among groups that are helping to
underwrite this $1 million freedom ride. Others include foundations, churches
and civil rights groups.

Critics argue that these immigrants don't deserve legal status because they came
to this country illegally, pay no income taxes and would add further strain to
this nation's social service network. Supporters make a good case for amnesty.
Immigrants are here to stay, they say. They do pay taxes, and their labor is
crucial to this nation's economy. They hold down low-wage jobs that others don't
want.

The humane thing for this nation to do is recognize the value of this labor pool
and bring its members under the legal shield of labor and civil rights laws. As
the number of Hispanics (now the largest U.S. minority) and other immigrant
groups grows, so will the pressure to treat them fairly.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              101 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 29, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS HEADING TO WASHINGTON RALLY HERE;
GROUP SEEKING NEW LAWS IS RIDING ACROSS NATION

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater And Paul Hampel Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 577 words


Two buses carrying 104 immigrants and their supporters stopped in St. Louis on
Sunday night as part of a coast-to-coast sojourn designed to persuade Congress
to overhaul immigration laws.

An evening rally at Kiener Plaza for the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride
attracted hundreds of immigrants, unionists and church groups. About 30
protesters circled the sidewalk behind the crowd carrying signs denouncing
immigration. "Immigrants are a Cancer," said one. "Mexicans belong in Mexico,"
said another.

Lisa Jaicks, 46, who has been traveling with the group since it left San
Francisco in late September, said the protesters were a minor irritation
compared with a major inconvenience on both buses.

"The bathrooms on the buses quit working on the second leg of the trip," Jaicks
said. The frequent bathroom stops along the way have lengthened the trip, she
said. "But otherwise, we've encountered great support everywhere we've been."

Nine hundred Freedom Riders who boarded 18 buses in nine cities in late
September en route to Washington hope to force their issues to the front burner
and build political heat along the way. The campaign was inspired by the Freedom
Riders of the Civil Rights movement in the 1960s.

The buses are expected to stop in more than 100 cities before reaching the
capital. The group will converge in Washington Thursday and Friday to press an
agenda that includes legalizing the status of illegal aliens, giving immigrants
a clear path to citizenship, increasing the number of visas issued as a means to
reunify families and protect undocumented workers from exploitation. The sweep
culminates with a rally Saturday in New York.

Organizers estimate that 10 million undocumented immigrants contribute $730
million each year to the U.S. economy.

One of the riders who came to St. Louis on Sunday recalled a similar, but more
hazardous journey, almost four decades earlier.

Raymundo Flores, 66, traveled with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other
civil rights supporters across the country in 1966.

"Like that time, this group has the same concentrated effort for equality," said
Flores, who came to America in 1944 at age 7. "But this time, there's not the
fear of dogs, and tear gas. This time, the police support us."

St. Louis police Lt. Jerome Dampier said there had been no trouble or arrests at
Sunday evening's event.

Eileen Donovan, 62, a member of the Sisters of Notre Dame, came to the rally
with 14 other members of her Catholic teaching order. Donovan, who lives in St.
Louis, said that as a younger woman, she worked for two summers alongside Cesar
Chavez in California when he was organizing grape pickers in the National Farm
Worker Association. Donovan said conditions for Mexican immigrant farm workers
improved for a time as the public became aware of their dire working conditions
and poor pay, but the gains did not hold.

Frank Weltner, 62, of St. Louis, a spokesman for the protesters, said the United
States should close its borders. "We're a country of 280 million immigrants. We
don't need any more. America is full-up."

The travelers were to spend the night at a religious retreat in the Metro East
area, then make appearances to promote voter registration this morning before
resuming their journey. One bus was to stop at 9:30 a.m. today at St. Francis de
Sales Catholic Church, 2652 Ohio Street, and the other at National Linen
Service, 315 Lynch Street, both in St. Louis.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Judith VandeWater:; E-mail: jvandewater@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8201

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              102 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 30, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Edition

METROPOLITAN AREA DIGEST

SECTION: METRO; Metropolitan Area Digest Column; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1039 words


LOCAL BRIEFS

ST. LOUIS

Freedom Riders meet with Bosnian immigrants

Two buses carrying more than 100 immigrants and their supporters left St. Louis
on Monday to finish their cross-country campaign to overhaul immigration laws.

Participants of The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride met with Bosnian immigrants
at a linen service company and went door-to-door in the city to encourage voter
registration and involvement in immigration rights issues before leaving St.
Louis.

The Freedom Ride campaign, inspired by the 1960s civil rights movement, seeks
the legalization of undocumented workers.

The two buses will join up with the 16 other Freedom Ride buses in Washington,
where participants will lobby Congress later this week. The tour culminates
Saturday with a rally in New York.

JEFFERSON CITY

Panel says state needs a transportation strategy

Missouri's Transportation Department needs to publicly confess its error in
abandoning a 1992 road plan and then develop a statewide transportation strategy
that includes completion of the long-promised projects, according to a draft
report compiled Monday by a citizens advisory panel.

The report suggests that the transportation agency needs to reinvent itself
before voters are likely to approve a significant funding increase for roads and
other transportation modes. But it stops short of recommending a new governing
structure for a transportation commission that it dubs "the most independent and
powerful in the nation."

The Blue Ribbon Panel on Accountability, Credibility and Efficiency plans to
vote Oct. 7 on a final report and present it to the Missouri Highways and
Transportation Commission, said chairman Jack Magruder.

The commission created the panel after voters overwhelmingly defeated a roughly
$500 million transportation tax plan last year.

ST. LOUIS

SLU will host meeting on homeland security

The first of a series of town hall meetings on homeland security around the
nation will be held in St. Louis from noon to 2 p.m. Oct. 8 at St. Louis
University. It will focus on medical and health issues, a topic chosen because
of St. Louis' strength in these areas. Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge
will lead the session.

Sam Simon, director of public safety for St. Louis, will be a panelist. "We're
hoping to learn something from the secretary, and we'd like to let him know how
things are going here from a state and city perspective," said Simon.

Other panelists are Dr. Karen Webb, chief medical officer at St. Louis
University; St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay, and Tim Daniel, Missouri's homeland
security director.

LAW & ORDER

FLORISSANT

Smoke from fire kills man in his apartment

A man died of smoke inhalation early Monday in a fire that broke out in the
guest bedroom of his apartment in Florissant. Brian Piece, 32, of the 2400 block
of Montezuma Drive, in the River Chase Apartments, was pronounced dead at the
scene at 3:25 a.m. Authorities said he apparently was asleep in his bed when he
was overcome by smoke from a fire that began in another bedroom, where a friend
had been staying.

The friend escaped by jumping from the third-floor window of the burning
bedroom. Florissant police said they believed the fire began in an electrical
connection in the second bedroom.

ST. LOUIS COUNTY

Family suffers poisoning from carbon monoxide

A woman and two children were rescued from their home early Monday after they
became disoriented by carbon monoxide from a malfunctioning furnace. Authorities
said the family lighted the gas furnace the evening before.

Officer Mason Keller, spokesman for St. Louis County police, said that rescuers
responding to a call from the home, in the 9700 block of Lorna Lane, found
family members so confused they didn't know why police were at their door.

Moline Fire Protection District firefighters traced the problem to inadequate
ventilation for the furnace. The three residents, ages 49, 16 and 14, were
treated at Christian Hospital Northeast and released.

ST. CHARLES

Registered sex offender is sought in rape, police say

St. Charles police were searching Monday for a registered sex offender who they
say has raped again.

Police are looking for Leonard G. Ainley, 32, of the 2200 block of Campus Drive,
in connection with a rape Sunday. Ainley was released from prison in Farmington,
Mo., on July 23 after completing a 12-year sentence for raping a 15-year-old
girl.

About 5:30 p.m. Sunday, police say, Ainley went to the home of an acquaintance
who lives in the Cedarbrook Apartments. The man was not at home, so he asked his
wife if he could use her phone. The woman, 24, let him in and once inside, he
put a large knife to her throat and threatened to harm her two children, ages 5
and 6, if she did not comply.

Police said Ainley raped the woman and then fled.

Anyone with information about Ainley is asked to call the St. Charles police at
636-949-3300.

CRYSTAL CITY

Teen dies from injuries suffered in crash

A teenager from Crystal City died Monday from injuries suffered Sunday in a
two-car accident in Jefferson County.

Alycia N. Zebrowski, 18, died about 6 a.m. Monday at St. John's Mercy Medical
Center. She was a senior at Crystal City High School.

According to the Missouri Highway Patrol, Zebrowski was a passenger in a car
driven by Cagney Anne McWilliams, 17, of Imperial, that was struck as it crossed
Highway A at Old Highway A in Festus. The car was hit on the passenger side by a
vehicle driven by John Allen Alsup, 65, of Richwoods, Mo.

POTOSI, Mo.

Inmate is fatally beaten at prison, official says

An inmate from St. Louis was found beaten to death at Missouri's
maximum-security prison in Potosi, and his cellmate is suspected, prison
Superintendent Don Roper said Monday.

Lamont Daugherty, 29, was discovered face-down in his cell at 10:37 p.m. Sunday
as guards were performing a head count, Roper said. Emergency responders were
unable to revive him.

Daugherty and his cellmate, whose name was not released, had been transferred to
Potosi from other state facilities after assaulting other inmates. Daugherty was
imprisoned July 30, 2002, from St. Louis on four counts of armed criminal action
and one count of unlawful use of a weapon.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by TRACY BOULIAN/POST-DISPATCH - Employees of the Sheraton
Westport hotel compete in a bed relay race in a "Guest Bed Olympics" held Monday
outside the Sheraton St. Louis City Center hotel, at 400 South 14th Street near
the Savvis Center. Teams from three Sheraton hotels took part in bed races,
speed bed making, bed obstacle courses and bed 'n' basketball competitions. The
winning team, Sheraton Westport, donated their bed and bedding to the Ronald
McDonald House.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              103 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             October 8, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SETTING ASIDE OF GUILTY PLEA MAY AID IMMIGRANT;
GERMAN LIVING HERE IS FIGHTING DEPORTATION OVER MARIJUANA CASE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 429 words


A St. Louis County Circuit Court judge agreed Tuesday to throw out a guilty plea
in a marijuana case, boosting the hope of a longtime U.S. resident to avoid
deportation to Germany, a country he last lived in at age 5.

Lawyers for Florian Brown, 28, argued that the attorney who defended Brown on
the drug charge engaged in a conflict of interest by representing another
defendant in the same case. Brown's lawyers said their client was never advised
of his right to seek independent counsel.

The lawyers also argued that the law in some states requires that defendants
pleading guilty in felony cases be told of the direct consequences of their
plea. In Missouri, that doesn't include how a guilty plea might affect someone's
immigration status.

But tougher immigration laws enacted over the past six years eliminated court
discretion in such cases, almost always making deportation a consequence. As a
result, the lawyers also contended, Brown should have been told of the
possibility of deportation.

In his written order, Judge John Ross ruled there was no conflict of interest.
But citing "new evidence and arguments," Ross said "that principles of
fundamental fairness dictate that the plea of guilty in this case be set aside."

In October 2001, police raided the home Brown shared in Maryland Heights with
another man after, police said, an informer purchased an ounce of marijuana from
the roommate. At the time of the raid, Brown was out of town on business. Police
seized 18 small marijuana plants and drug paraphernalia.

On advice of the lawyer, Brown and the other man pleaded guilty of manufacturing
and selling a controlled substance - a felony. Brown received probation and a
suspended imposition of sentence, which he believed would have no impact on his
immigration status.

Brown's family immigrated to the United States in 1980. The family never sought
U.S. citizenship but lived in the country as legal permanent residents.

In July, Brown was detained at a New Jersey airport and told to report to
immigration officials in St. Louis. Only then did he learn that federal law does
not recognize suspended sentences imposed by state courts and that he was
subject to deportation.

He has been in custody since Aug. 13.

Ross set a scheduling conference for Oct. 27 to determine where the marijuana
case proceeds now.

"I'm ecstatic," said Brown's fiancee, Elizabeth Stitt, who had contemplated a
jailhouse marriage to aid Brown's efforts to stay in the United States. "There's
going to be a wedding and it won't be in an orange jumpsuit."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO headshot - (Florian) Brown; In custody since Aug. 13

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              104 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 9, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

GERMAN-BORN MAN SAVORS THE TASTES OF FREEDOM;
HE HAD FACED DEPORTATION OVER OLD DRUG CHARGE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 328 words


Florian Brown celebrated his first day of freedom in nearly two months with
Guinness beer and barbecued seafood.

"We don't get a lot of shrimp in the county jail," he said while relaxing with
his fiancOe in his Maryland Heights home Wednesday.

Only hours before, federal immigration authorities released Brown from the
Montgomery County jail. Brown, 28, and a permanent legal resident, had been in
custody since Aug. 13 awaiting deportation to Germany, a country he last lived
in at age 5.

The deportation was based on Brown's guilty plea in an old marijuana case.

In October 2001, police raided the home Brown shared with another man after,
police said, an informer purchased an ounce of marijuana from the roommate. At
the time of the raid, Brown was out of town on business. Police seized 18 small
marijuana plants and drug paraphernalia.

On the advice of a lawyer, Brown and the other man pleaded guilty of
manufacturing and selling a controlled substance - a felony. Brown received
probation and a suspended imposition of sentence, which he believed would have
no impact on his immigration status.

But federal law almost always requires that resident aliens found guilty of an
aggravated felony be subject to automatic deportation.

In July, Brown was detained at a New Jersey airport and told to report to
immigration officials in St. Louis. Only then did he learn that he was subject
to deportation.

On Tuesday, St. Louis County Circuit Court Judge John Ross agreed to set aside
Brown's plea in the drug case, citing "principles of fundamental fairness."

By doing so, he cleared the way for Brown's release from federal custody.

"It's been an amazing 24 hours," Brown said. "We went from no hope to a complete
turnaround."

But the drug case remains open. Ross set a scheduling conference for Oct. 27 to
determine where the case proceeds now.

"We're back to square one on the criminal level," said Raymond Bolourtchi, one
of Brown's attorneys.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              105 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 7, 2003 Sunday Illinois Five Star Edition

ARAB POPULATION IN U.S. ALMOST DOUBLES, CENSUS SHOWS/ LIBERALIZED IMMIGRATION,
MIDDLE EAST UNREST ARE CITED AS FACTORS

BYLINE: Jonathan D. Salant/ The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Arab population in the United States has nearly doubled in the past two
decades, according to the Census Bureau's first report on the group.

Experts cited liberalized U.S. immigration laws and unrest in the Middle East as
leading many people to come to America.

The bureau counted nearly 1.2 million Arabs in the United States in 2000,
compared with 860,000 in 1990 and 610,000 in 1980. About 60 percent trace their
ancestry to three countries: Lebanon, Syria and Egypt.

While earlier Arab immigrants came from countries with large Christian
populations, newer arrivals come from heavily Muslim countries such as Iraq and
Yemen.

"Immigrants from the Arab world come for the same reason all immigrants come -
economic opportunity, opportunities to have an education, to develop a
professional career," said Helen Samhan, executive director of the Arab American
Institute Foundation, a research group.

Samhan said the lifting of U.S. immigration quotas in the 1960s opened the door
to people from Arab countries. Many took advantage during the 1980s and 1990s,
with a large number coming from nations such as Lebanon and Iraq, where there
were wars.

Almost half of the Arabs in the United States live in five states - California
(190,890), New York (120,370), Michigan (115,284), New Jersey (71,770) and
Florida (77,461).

"It would be better to come to America than Europe or Canada," said Zak Trad,
33, of Anaheim, Calif., who came from Lebanon three years ago. "It's the largest
Arab community not in an Arab country. I didn't think I would be a stranger
here."

New York City, the first stop for millions of immigrants for more than a
century, had the largest Arab population among U.S. cities, 69,985. The Detroit
suburb of Dearborn, Mich., where many Arabs first settled to work in the
automobile industry, was next at 29,181.

Sterling Heights, Mich., was the city with the largest percentage of
Arab-Americans, 3.7 percent, followed by Jersey City, N.J., with 2.8 percent.
Dearborn's population is about 30 percent Arab, but it was not ranked because
the Census Bureau only counted cities with at least 100,000 residents; Dearborn
has about 98,000.

The Census Bureau asked those who received the long version of their
questionnaire to list their ancestry. The form was sent to about one-sixth of
all households.

Arab-Americans say their population is larger than that reported by the Census
Bureau, but many are reluctant to fill out government forms because they came
from countries with oppressive regimes.

The census report stops at 2000 so there is no data to measure the impact of the
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But tighter immigration procedures imposed after then
have reduced the flow of Arabs to the United States.

The Arab American Institute Foundation said that just over 15,000 visas were
issued to immigrants from Arab countries in 2002, compared with more than 21,000
in 2001.

"The fact that immigration procedures and visa applications have been so tightly
screened is going to slow down the volume of new immigrants," Samhan said. "The
scrutiny that will be placed on immigrants from Arab and Muslim countries is
going to be even greater than other places."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              106 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 6, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Edition

BUSH WILL SEEK CHANGE IN IMMIGRATION POLICY/ MEXICANS WILL BENEFIT, WHITE HOUSE
SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush will propose changes in immigration law to allow
workers from Mexico to enter the United States if they have jobs waiting for
them, officials said Monday.

Advocacy groups have been invited to the White House on Wednesday to h ear
details of the program.

"The president has long talked about the importance of having an immigration
policy that matches willing workers with willing employers," White House press
secretary Scott McClellan said. "It's important for America to be a welcoming
society. We are a nation of immigrants, and we're better for it."

Immigration advocacy groups characterized Bush's move as an effort to curry
favor with Hispanics, important in key states like Florida and California. Two
sources speaking on condition of anonymity said that Bush would outline a set of
principles rather than a detailed piece of legislation, and that the policy
statement would draw on bills already pending in Congress.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza,
said, "It looks very much like a political effort, and what they do with these
'principles' is going to determine whether this is really a policy initiative or
not. The Latino community knows the difference between political posturing and a
real policy debate."

She said the initiative was crafted by Bush's political strategist, Karl Rove,
and said, "We know of no one in the immigration policy community, business
groups or Latino groups who has been consulted."

Rove, with Bush at a campaign fund-raiser in St. Louis, deflected questions
about the proposal.

"Stay tuned," he said.

Bush's announcement is scheduled five days before he meets in Mexico with
President Vicente Fox at the Summit of the Americas, a meeting of the
hemisphere's leaders.

Mexico is seeking a measure of legality for the approximately 4 million
undocumented Mexicans living in the United States and wants a legal way for
others to work in the country.

Immigration talks between the United States and Mexico stalled when the United
States tightened border restrictions after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,
2001.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Note: a shorter version of this article appeared in the FIVE STAR LATE
LIFT Edition, page A7.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              107 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 11, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1321 words


Immigration policy insults Americans

Are you as mad as I am? President George W. Bush, whom I generally support, has
just sold all of us out!

If you aren't outraged at this new immigration policy, then you must not like a
sovereign nation.

You must like your tax dollars going to people who have already broken the law.

You must not be bothered that your parents and grandparents who came to this
country, as mine did -- and did it legally -- basically got the shaft.

Now I know why I continue to be an independent. Mr. President, you are kowtowing
to Mexican President Vicente Fox and have opened the doors wider to allowing
terrorists into the United States. Anyone who opposes this and wants automatic
deportation is labeled a "racist" or a "bigot."

I doubt you will run this letter because of the political correctness in the
mainstream media, including the Post-Dispatch.

M. B. Klem Jr.

===

Frankfort Heights "Greed" redefined

I thought I understood the level of greed involved with the St. Louis Cardinals
ownership group and the new stadium project. I actually came to accept it as a
good thing for St. Louis: State, county and city tax breaks were given; bonds
and concessions across the board came as needed.

Let's all get behind this thing and get it rolling, we were told. The ownership
group will buck up accordingly.

So we were led to believe.

Then along comes the news that the owners' greed, which I thought I understood
and accepted, was not quite satiated. They now want to steal another $40 million
from the pockets of their core base of fans for "Founders Program" seats.

It's almost unbelievable, but we've seen this act before. The greediness of this
group doesn't surprise me. The brashness completely floors me! This soon will
become the biggest public relations nightmare the "millionaires' club" has ever
faced. Good luck on this one, boys!

Robert J. Fechter

Kirkwood

===

Take responsibility for behavior

This is in response to The New York Times' reporter Sara Rimer's article in the
Jan. 4 Post-Dispatch:

Kudos to the Toledo, Ohio, Public School System. It is about time someone stands
up and says the school officials are doing the right thing. In regards to the
14-year-old female student and her inappropriate attire, I say you did the right
thing.

From my experience as substitute teacher in three school districts in the St.
Louis area in grades 6 through 12 for the past four years, I can say that
schools have a constant battle with students and, yes, parents. The rules are
there, established by the district school boards, to lay the framework for a
safe and open environment.

These board members are elected by the people and are equally responsible for
the education of the children. The students know the rules. The parents know the
rules. The schools most definitely know the rules. They are published and each
student and family receives the rules of conduct.

So why are there still problems? Why did the police have to get involved in what
seemed like a school problem about attire? I can tell you from my experience in
the classroom as a "guest teacher," students are defiant toward adults. At first
I thought it was just me, because I was a substitute, but it happens to all
teachers and administrators.

Don't get me wrong, not all students are defiant. It is a very small percentage
that is the real problem. This is where the parents need to step up and enforce
discipline in the schools. In more cases than not, when the parents are
contacted the behavior does modify, but there are those instances when the
parents themselves become an equal part of the problem. That leaves the
administrators no choice but to use measures such as time-out rooms, in-school
suspensions, detentions, and out-of-school suspensions to help to modify the
behavior.

It is time for the parents to stand up and take responsibility for their own
children's behavior. Discipline should be the role of the parent, not the
teacher. Parents, I challenge you to spend a day or two in your child's
classroom or another classroom and see what the teachers have to cope with each
day. I guarantee you will see another side of the story.

Joe Evans

St. Louis County

===

See the U.S.A. -- in what?

I'm a little confused by the "American Revolution" ads from Chevrolet. When I
look at the Aveo from Korea; the Tracker from Suzuki; the Equinox from a
Canadian Suzuki factory, powered by Chinese V-6 engines; the Colorado engineered
by Isuzu; the Malibu with a chassis from Opel and Saab; and the Impala and Monte
Carlo built in Canada, I see products that are more accurately called an
"American Substitution."

Kevin Kelly

St. Peters

===

Increase local taxes for educational equality

In response to Irl Solomon's letter on unequal education published Thursday, I
agree that any state money used for education should be shared equally. But Mr.
Solomon appears to want the state to make up the difference in funding between
various school districts. In other words, let someone else pay to bring up his
school district's revenues.

If Clayton spends more per pupil than Jennings or Festus, I'd be willing to bet
their local school taxes are higher than the taxes of Jennings or Festus.

Don't blame legislators such as House Speaker Catherine Hanaway for trying to
balance a state budget with a finite amount of money to spend. If you want more
money spent per student in your school district, get a group of like-minded
neighbors together and lobby your local politicians to raise your local school
taxes.

This way, you and your neighbors obtain the benefits of your tax dollars. School
taxes for the rest of us are high enough already.

James Fischer

Warrenton

===

Raise level of our float

What happened to the St. Louis float in the Rose Bowl parade this year?

I thought the float representing the City of St. Louis was the most lackluster
contribution St. Louis has ever made. In years past, we could always count on a
beautiful, colorful float that usually won a prize.

This year, the best thing about the float was the Clydesdale horses. What they
pulled behind them left much to be desired. It was dull and uninteresting.

This is a shame. Music -- the theme of this year's parade -- had endless
possibilities for a float, especially for our city, which this year will be
celebrating the 100th anniversary of its World's Fair.

This float could have had a replica of the Ferris wheel and couples dressed in
colorful costumes strolling through Forest Park.

Next year, let's try to get back to the high quality of workmanship and
ingenuity from the float designers that we have been used to.

Jo Fluegge

Wildwood

===

Against progress

I am very disappointed in your Dec. 27 editorial, "Cement overshoes." It is
really sad that you go all out for companies such as the Ford plant but then
write opposing Holcim. I wish you would leave the rural areas alone and confine
your editorials to St. Louis!

I realize there are certain groups that seem to feel compelled to be against
anything and everything. It is too bad that you have sided with them on this
issue. I get the distinct impression that these people would be happy if all the
cement came from Greece, all the manufactured goods from China and all the
agricultural products from Mexico or other foreign countries.

The United States was built on industries such as Holcim, which take a raw
material, limestone in this instance, turn it into a much needed product and
thus generate new income.

In the case of Holcim, the income to the state in income taxes on the employees'
earnings alone would be significant. And the spin-off to Jefferson and Ste.
Genevieve counties would be tremendous.

It will be a very sad day if Holcim should abandon its proposal after all the
money and years of effort it has invested and should build its plant in another
location.

Lothar Fieg

Ste. Genevieve

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              108 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 7, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION CASE IS RESOLVED, WITH HELP FROM ABOVE

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO; Bill McClellan Column; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 683 words


BASSEL MARSHI approached, yet again, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in the federal building downtown. Always before, he had approached the
office with a certain wariness, a sense of dread doing battle with his fervent
belief that God watches over the faithful. But on Friday morning, the wariness
and dread were gone, and Marshi was at peace.

He was smiling when he took his seat in the waiting room, and more than one of
the supplicants gathered there looked at him quizzically. It is a diverse group
of people in that waiting room, but one thing they seem to share is a certain
wariness. Smiles, even of the nervous variety, are rare.

But Marshi had reason to smile. He was carrying a document the likes of which no
staff member in the St. Louis INS office had ever seen -- a legal opinion from
John Ashcroft in which the U.S. attorney general reversed earlier rulings that
had denied Marshi's request for political asylum. An immigration judge had ruled
against Marshi. The Board of Immigration Appeals had affirmed the judge's
decision. Deportation to Lebanon seemed a certainty until Ashcroft intervened.

"I was accepting to leave," Marshi told me as I sat with him in the waiting
room. "But to where? You are sending me to a place where I will be dead. But God
is in control. He moves the heart of the king, it says in the Bible. So he moved
the heart of Ashcroft."

If he did, he had an assist from Missouri Rep. Jane Cunningham. She came to the
case through a local Republican campaign operative named Scott Leiendecker. And
it was prayer that brought him into the story.

A year ago, when it looked as if Marshi were about to be deported, he asked his
fellow worshippers at the Bible Chapel in south St. Louis County to pray for
him. One did more than pray. He put Marshi in touch with Leiendecker, who called
Cunningham. When she heard Marshi's story, she thought, "This is outrageous. How
could we even think about deporting this man?"

About that time, I wrote a column about Marshi. One of his grandmothers was
Jewish, but both his parents were raised as Christians in Palestine. When Israel
was created, his parents fled to Syria, and then moved to Kuwait, where he was
born in 1962. Because his parents were Christian, they were not eligible for
Kuwaiti citizenship. A Lebanese administration, headed by Christians, decided to
increase its share of the electorate by offering citizenship to Palestinian
Christians, who were dispersed througho ut the Middle East. So Marshi's family
moved to Lebanon and became citizens.

As a young man, Marshi became a Red Cross volunteer. He was working in that
capacity in the spring of 1983 when the U.S. Embassy was bombed. He helped with
the rescue effort. Certain anti-American Muslims took note of his help. In
October of that year, a suicide bomber blew up the Marine barracks. It was a
chaotic scene when Marshi arrived. Smoke, and rubble, and bodies were
everywhere. Ambulances were rushing the wounded away.

But to where? Many of the hospitals were in areas controlled by the guerrillas,
who had a history of hostage-taking. For a day and a half after the bombing,
Marshi led rescue units into the hospitals. They got everybody out.

"We couldn't have done it without Bassell," Col. Barry Ford told me last year.
Ford was, at the time of the bombing, the Marines' liaison to the Lebanese army.
He speaks Arabic and has a master's degree in Mideast studies from Johns Hopkins
University. He testified at Marshi's hearing for asylum, but the judge ruled his
testimony was inadmissible because he was not an expert.

There were also some technical problems with Marshi's case. Before retaining his
present lawyer, Tim Wichmer, his legal representation wasn't so hot. A couple of
papers weren't filed in a timely manner. So things looked very bad.

But Cunningham was a tireless supporter. She made sure that the Justice
Department knew about the case. In June of last year, Ashcroft stayed the
deportation order, and announced that he would take the case under personal
review. Now he has made his finding.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: STLtoday.com/McClellan/ E-mail: bmcclellan@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-340-8143

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              109 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 22, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

MISSOURI STUDENT FROM COSTA RICA LEADS RALLY FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: Bernard Mallee/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Missouri high school senior who faces deportation led a rally this week urging
Congress to pass a bill that would allow students like her whose families
entered the United States illegally to remain here to attend college.

At a mock graduation ceremony Tuesday on Capitol Hill's front lawn, Marie
Gonzalez, 18, of Jefferson City, spoke of her plans to graduate from Helias High
School next month and to attend college and law school.

"It is unfair that anyone should have to go through the pain and hu miliation my
family has gone through in the United States," Gonzalez told the group of
students seated before her in blue graduation gowns. "This country was built by
immigrants, and everyone should have an opportunity to go through and further
our dreams."

She then marched with about 70 students facing the same prospect of deportation
and dozens of their supporters to the Department of Education. They delivered a
box filled with index cards on which the students had written their hopes for
the future. Petitions in support of their fight that bear some 100,000
signatures are to be mailed soon to President George W. Bush.

Gonzalez and her parents, Marvin and Marina Gonzalez, are from Costa Rica. They
have been living and working in the United States since 1991. Marie was 5 when
she arrived.

In February, an immigration judge turned down the family's application to stay
in the United States. They appealed the ruling and are awaiting a decision. If
the appeal is unsuccessful, the family will have 30 to 60 days to leave.

A Senate bill known as the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors,
or DREAM bill, would help Gonzalez and similar students.

Co-sponsored by Sens. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the bill
would allow illegal immigrants who entered the country before age 16 and have
lived here for at least five years to attend college in the United States.

Qualifying students could earn permanent resident status by attending college
for at least two years, serving in the military or doing community service.

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., calls the bill a "patchwork" solution.

In a statement, Bond said he was "hesitant to back legislation that encourages
people to come to America illegally or legislation that moves towards amnesty."

Sen. Jim Talent, R-Mo., called the bill "piecemeal immigration reform" that does
not provide an overall solution to the problem.

Durbin, who did not attend the rally, became interested in the issue when he
heard of a young girl in Chicago who had to turn down a scholarship to attend
Northwestern University because she was not a legal resident.

Angela Benander, a spokeswoman for Durbin, said "these are young people who had
no choice in the matter" and "should not be punished for their parents'
mistakes."

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies,
says few students like Gonzalez are actually deported. He sees a motive besides
higher education for some illegal immigrants behind the bill.

"This is kind of an attempt to pick the most media-genic group of aliens and try
to secure an amnesty for them, with the intention of moving towards a larger
amnesty for more generic illegal aliens," Camarota said.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              110 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 4, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LONGTIME LEGAL RESIDENTS FACE DEPORTATION FOR MINOR CRIMES/ IMMIGRATION AGENCY
PURSUES TOUGH POLICY

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle And Karen Branch-Brioso/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1318 words


Andres Morales, a Mexican whose family runs a restaurant in Florissant, is
effectively out of the United States and fighting to get back in.

Mahir Mohammad, an Afghan who works at a furniture store in St. Louis, is in the
United States and fighting to keep from getting thrown out.

Both are permanent residents with families here. Both pleaded guilty to
relatively minor drug charges and thus triggered their deportation. Their cases
underscore how the Department of Homeland Security has toughed enforcement of
immigration laws since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The department, which took control of immigration enforcement last year, has
touted its role in hunting for terrorists.

But using a 1996 law, it is also cracking down on aliens who commit more routine
crimes, such as assault or drug offenses. Critics say minor criminals are being
swept up in unnecessarily harsh measures.

Morales, 25, has been a legal permanent resident since he was a year old. A
graduate of Hazelwood West High School, he has worked at his family's
restaurant, Pueblo Nuevo, for nearly a decade.

In 1997, at 19, he pleaded guilty in St. Louis County Circuit Court to
possessing marijuana with intent to distribute. In 1998, he pleaded guilty in
the same jurisdiction to possessing marijuana. He got probation in both cases.

The prosecution got the attention of Chester Moyer, the agent in charge of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office in St. Louis, who wrote a letter
to the court clerk in 1998 seeking documents on Morales. "This information is
needed for deportation proceedings," Moyer wrote.

But immigration officials never tried to deport Morales, and in fact renewed his
green card, which proves resident alien status, he said. He made repeated trips
to Mexico to visit relatives and returned without a problem.

Without a problem, that is, until March 26. Immigration officials detained him
at the Texas border that day and said his criminal record meant he could not
return home to Florissant. He remained at a detention center in Laredo, awaiting
a hearing today.

"I might have done illegal things when I was younger. But I'm not illegal. I'm
still confused why I'm here," Morales said in a recent telephone interview.

He noted that he had completed both of his probationary periods successfully. "I
did classes and I did everything they asked me to do," he said.

His mother, Bertha Morales, says, "It's all very unfortunate."

Bertha Morales became a U.S. citizen in 1986, when her son was 8. She said that
she wanted him to become naturalized at the same time but that she and her
husband had decided to wait and "let him make his own decision." Her husband
died in 2002, and she now owns and operates the restaurant with Andres.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service came under intense scrutiny after it
was discovered that the Sept. 11 suicide hijackers had come in and out of the
country freely, several on expired visas.

Critics noted that hundreds of thousands of aliens had failed to leave the
country after their visas expired, or had disappeared after being ordered to go.

Federal officials called for tightened enforcement of immigration laws. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service was shifted to the new Department of
Homeland Security, combined with the customs bureau, and renamed Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

Since then, the new agency has pressed a tough policy on aliens who commit
crimes in the United States. Last year, it announced "Endgame," its plan for
"the removal of all removable aliens."

In a memo publicly announcing "Endgame," Anthony Tangeman, director of the
agency's Office of Detention and Removal, said, "We must strive for %100 removal
rate."

It uses a 1996 law in which Congress broadened the list of crimes for which an
alien must be deported. It also limited the conditions under which aliens could
protest.

David Leopold, an immigration attorney in Cleveland, said the Department of
Homeland Security is reacting to the Sept. 11 attacks by deporting every person
who makes a mistake that is a deportable offense. He said the agency was "awash
in a culture of 'no.'"

"The reality is that enforcement of the 1996 law has not made this country any
safer from terrorist attacks because the people they are focusing on are minor
criminals," said Leopold, who serves on the board of directors of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

"What's happened since 1996 is that families have been split up and long-term
permanent residents have been separated for a lifetime because of a mistake," he
said.

He said the government's focus on enforcing the 1996 law has wasted resources
that could have been used in the hunt for terrorists.

But the spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Chicago,
Marilu Cabrera, said the agency had not significantly altered the way it
enforces deportation of aliens who commit crimes.

"Obviously, we have more of a focus on terrorism now, but the criminal alien
aspect has been there since before 9-11," she said.

Cabrera said she could not comment on what took so long for action against
Morales. Immigration officials in St. Louis check court cases regularly, she
said.

It is unclear whether such a sweep of court records led to deportation
proceedings against Mohammad, 40, an Afghan.

After living for eight years in the United States as a legal permanent resident,
Mohammad faces a big price for his plea of guilty of possessing a tiny amount of
crack cocaine. Immigration and Customs Enforcement wants to ship him back to
Afghanistan.

In 2002, Mohammad pleaded guilty of possessing 0.15 grams of crack cocaine. A
judge in St. Louis Circuit Court granted him a suspended imposition of sentence,
which erases the public record of the crime if a probation period is
successfully completed.

But it still counts as a felony conviction and is grounds for deportation,
Cabrera explained.

After an immigration judge ruled Mohammad must be deported, he was instructed to
board a flight for Afghanistan on April 20.

His leaving would be an enormous strain on his family, said Qayum Mohammad, a
friend. Mahir Mohammad's wife has lupus and relies on Medicaid for medications,
he said. If she were to return with her husband to Afghanistan, the couple would
probably have to move to Pakistan to obtain the medicine, and even then it is
unlikely she will be able to obtain it, Qayum Mohammad said.

In addition, the couple's three children are in school in St. Louis. If the
family remains here, they will suffer because Mahir Mohammad is the sole
provider, Qayum Mohammad said.

"For God's sake, if he gets deported, who's going to support his family?" his
friend asked.

Other Afghans here have helped pay Mohammad's legal bills, Qayum Mohammad said.

Qayum Mohammad says he believes that Mahir Mohammad is innocent and that his
defense attorney failed to inform him that his plea would have such dire
consequences. "His attorney really screwed him up," said Qayum Mohammad, who
works in the dining room of a country club.

The lawyer declined to comment for this story.

Mahir Mohammad has hired a new defense lawyer, a specialist in immigration law,
and sought to withdraw the guilty plea, arguing that he received poor advice
from his criminal defense attorney.

A state court judge rejected Mohammad's effort to withdraw his guilty plea last
year, finding that the potential deportation was a "collateral consequence" of
his guilty plea. Neither the judge nor the defense attorney was obligated to
explain such a consequence, the judge ruled.

On April 19, the day before he was to leave for Afghanistan, Mohammad filed suit
in federal court in St. Louis seeking to block his deportation. U.S. District
Judge Stephen Limbaugh issued an order blocking the government from deporting
Mohammad so he can continue efforts to withdraw his guilty plea.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle:/ E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-621-5804/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/
Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, PHOTO(2) Graphic / Bar Chart by POST-DISPATCH - Increasing
deportations/ Total deportations, and deportations of people because of criminal
convictions, have been on the rise. Figures for criminal deportations include
aliens living here legally and illegally./ a) TOTAL DEPORTATIONS/ IN THOUSANDS/
(Chart shows total deportations from 2001 to 2004*)/ 2004*: 73,572/ / b)
CRIMINAL DEPORTATIONS/ IN THOUSANDS/ 2003: 76,914/ (Chart shows total
deportations from 2001 to 2003)/ * Through March/ Source: U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. ; (1) Color PHOTO headshot - (Andres) Morales/ Grew up in
St. Louis area

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              111 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 12, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

AGENCY REJECTS CITIZENSHIP FOR ST. LOUISAN/ MAN WHO GREW UP HERE WILL PROBABLY
BE BARRED FROM RETURNING TO U.S.

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 347 words


A federal agency rejected a citizenship application from Andres Morales on
Tuesday, making it less likely that he will be allowed to return to his
almost-lifelong home in Hazelwood.

It was tough news for his mother, Bertha Morales, who raised Andres from age 1
in the St. Louis area, watched him graduate from Hazelwood West High School, and
ran a popular Mexican eatery, Pueblo Nuevo, with him.

"Someone told me to hire another lawyer," she said. "I don't know what to do
anymore."

Morales, 26, a Mexican citizen and longtime legal resident alien in the United
States, was detained in Texas on March 26.

Immigration officials said his conviction in a 1997 case on a charge of
possession with intent to distribute marijuana meant that he would have to be
deported from the United States. But no apparent action was taken against
Morales until he tried to re-enter the country from a routine visit to Mexico.
He had successfully completed probation in the St. Louis County drug case under
terms that erased the conviction from his public record.

In a hearing last week, Morales' lawyer argued that he actually became a citizen
when his mother became a citizen in 1986.

But the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Department
of Homeland Security, rejected his application for citizenship on Tuesday,
Bertha Morales said.

In the hearing last week, an immigration judge in San Antonio said the drug
conviction meant Andres Morales could not come home unless he were found to
already be a citizen.

The judge is set to hold another hearing May 18.

The case has prompted support from people who have known the Morales family for
years.

Mike McCormick, owner of a pizza restaurant in Alton, said he has gone to Pueblo
Nuevo for 18 years, and watched Andres grow up working hard at the restaurant.
McCormick occasionally played golf with him.

"Andres is a good kid," he said. "If they deport that kid, that business is
going to go down the tubes because it's going to be just his mother running it.
He's become the backbone of that business."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle:/ E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-621-5804

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Andres) Morales/ Ran restaurant with his
mother

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              112 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 6, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Man detained at border returns to Hazelwood

BYLINE: PETER SHINKLE Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 701 words


* A St. Louis County judge allows him to withdraw his guilty plea in a drug
case, six years later. But he could still face deportation if convicted of a
felony in the now-active case.

Andres Morales is back in Hazelwood, the only home he can remember, after being
held at the Mexican border for two months by U.S. officials who said an old drug
case might keep him out of the country forever.

He returned last week after a St. Louis County judge allowed him to withdraw his
guilty plea six years after the fact. But it is an incremental step for Morales,
whose drug charge is thus made active again. Immigration officials could still
deport him if it results in a felony conviction.

Morales, 26, helps his mother run the popular Pueblo Nuevo restaurant in
Hazelwood. He was represented by Gene McNary, the onetime St. Louis County
prosecutor and former county executive who later headed the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. McNary now practices immigration law.

The reopening of his case was opposed by the office of Robert P. McCulloch, the
current county prosecutor.

In March, Morales was returning after a visit to Mexico, from which his family
moved when he was about 1 year old, when he was detained as he entered Texas.
Immigration officials discovered he had pleaded guilty in 1998 of possessing
marijuana with intent to distribute it, and served probation. He had the choice
of remaining free to live in Mexico or accepting confinement in Texas while
pressing his case to return here.

Immigration lawyers say the situation is typical of a tightening of enforcement
of immigration laws in the wake of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. While
supporters praise the tougher enforcement, some contend it too often results in
families being separated over minor offenses.

Morales' mother, Bertha Morales, a widow, despaired at the possibility her son
would be permanently deported. She previously said he considered obtaining
citizenship here but never got around to it.

While their lawyer in Texas fought the deportation, their local attorneys went
to St. Louis County Circuit Court in Clayton, seeking to withdraw the guilty
plea.

Those lawyers, McNary and Frank Kaveney, told the court that Morales should have
been warned before his plea that it could lead to his deportation. They said
Supreme Court rules permit a judge to set aside a judgment if there was a
"manifest injustice."

John Quarenghi, an assistant prosecuting attorney, opposed the motion, arguing
that the court had no obligation to warn Morales of "collateral consequences"
such as potential deportation.

The prosecutor also warned of a "strong likelihood" that evidence has been lost
and the memory of a witness faded over the intervening years.

On May 24, St. Louis County Circuit Judge Carolyn Whittington issued an order
setting the guilty plea aside, citing the rules mentioned by Morales' lawyers.
She said the plea was "invalidly and improperly obtained" in violation of
Morales' constitutional rights.

Whittington also set aside Morales' guilty plea in a 1998 misdemeanor case, in
which he admitted possessing marijuana. He had been ordered to serve probation
that time, too. He successfully completed a suspended imposition of sentence,
meaning records of his crimes were erased from public files.

With the felony conviction removed, immigration officials dropped their
deportation case and handed Morales over to county police on the reopened drug
charge. He paid $600 to post bond and was released, Kaveney said.

Neither Morales nor his mother was willing to be interviewed. McCulloch did not
return calls seeking comment.

Kaveney said he expects to have "meaningful discussions" with prosecutors to
seek a mutually acceptable outcome. "This occurred when he was 19 years old, and
we would anticipate that he would be treated fairly by the St. Louis County
prosecuting attorney's office," the lawyer said.

Jason Hilsabeck, who graduated from Hazelwood West High School with Morales in
1996, said Friday he was pleased to hear his old friend was home.

"He's just a really good person. He's the salt of the earth guy," Hilsabeck
said. "He's good to his family. He works his tail off."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              113 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 6, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Man detained at border returns to Hazelwood

BYLINE: PETER SHINKLE Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 701 words


* A St. Louis County judge allows him to withdraw his guilty plea in a drug
case, six years later. But he could still face deportation if convicted of a
felony in the now-active case.

Andres Morales is back in Hazelwood, the only home he can remember, after being
held at the Mexican border for two months by U.S. officials who said an old drug
case might keep him out of the country forever.

He returned last week after a St. Louis County judge allowed him to withdraw his
guilty plea six years after the fact. But it is an incremental step for Morales,
whose drug charge is thus made active again. Immigration officials could still
deport him if it results in a felony conviction.

Morales, 26, helps his mother run the popular Pueblo Nuevo restaurant in
Hazelwood. He was represented by Gene McNary, the onetime St. Louis County
prosecutor and former county executive who later headed the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. McNary now practices immigration law.

The reopening of his case was opposed by the office of Robert P. McCulloch, the
current county prosecutor.

In March, Morales was returning after a visit to Mexico, from which his family
moved when he was about 1 year old, when he was detained as he entered Texas.
Immigration officials discovered he had pleaded guilty in 1998 of possessing
marijuana with intent to distribute it, and served probation. He had the choice
of remaining free to live in Mexico or accepting confinement in Texas while
pressing his case to return here.

Immigration lawyers say the situation is typical of a tightening of enforcement
of immigration laws in the wake of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. While
supporters praise the tougher enforcement, some contend it too often results in
families being separated over minor offenses.

Morales' mother, Bertha Morales, a widow, despaired at the possibility her son
would be permanently deported. She previously said he considered obtaining
citizenship here but never got around to it.

While their lawyer in Texas fought the deportation, their local attorneys went
to St. Louis County Circuit Court in Clayton, seeking to withdraw the guilty
plea.

Those lawyers, McNary and Frank Kaveney, told the court that Morales should have
been warned before his plea that it could lead to his deportation. They said
Supreme Court rules permit a judge to set aside a judgment if there was a
"manifest injustice."

John Quarenghi, an assistant prosecuting attorney, opposed the motion, arguing
that the court had no obligation to warn Morales of "collateral consequences"
such as potential deportation.

The prosecutor also warned of a "strong likelihood" that evidence has been lost
and the memory of a witness faded over the intervening years.

On May 24, St. Louis County Circuit Judge Carolyn Whittington issued an order
setting the guilty plea aside, citing the rules mentioned by Morales' lawyers.
She said the plea was "invalidly and improperly obtained" in violation of
Morales' constitutional rights.

Whittington also set aside Morales' guilty plea in a 1998 misdemeanor case, in
which he admitted possessing marijuana. He had been ordered to serve probation
that time, too. He successfully completed a suspended imposition of sentence,
meaning records of his crimes were erased from public files.

With the felony conviction removed, immigration officials dropped their
deportation case and handed Morales over to county police on the reopened drug
charge. He paid $600 to post bond and was released, Kaveney said.

Neither Morales nor his mother was willing to be interviewed. McCulloch did not
return calls seeking comment.

Kaveney said he expects to have "meaningful discussions" with prosecutors to
seek a mutually acceptable outcome. "This occurred when he was 19 years old, and
we would anticipate that he would be treated fairly by the St. Louis County
prosecuting attorney's office," the lawyer said.

Jason Hilsabeck, who graduated from Hazelwood West High School with Morales in
1996, said Friday he was pleased to hear his old friend was home.

"He's just a really good person. He's the salt of the earth guy," Hilsabeck
said. "He's good to his family. He works his tail off."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              114 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 7, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Immigration case needs a shot of common sense

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO; Bill McClellan; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 659 words


NOW AND THEN, the system clearly does not work, and the people inside the system
have to rely on common sense. That seems to be what is happening in the case of
Andres Morales.

His parents brought him to this country from Mexico when he was 1 year old. He
was raised here and went to school here. When he was a teenager, he got into
some trouble with marijuana. He pleaded guilty of possession of marijuana with
intent to distribute, which is a felony, and he was placed on probation. Upon
completion of his probation, his record was cleared. He is now 26 years old, and
along with his mother, he runs a restaurant in Hazelwood. In March, he went to
Mexico to attend a cousin's wedding. When he attempted to return to this
country, he was stopped at the border. Under the tightened enforcement of
immigration laws following the attacks of 9-11, his conviction for an
"aggravated felony" made him ineligible to enter the country. This was part of a
policy called "Endgame" that went into effect last year after the Immigration
and Naturalization Service was shifted to the Department of Homeland Security.
"Endgame" calls for the removal of all "removable aliens."

Had Morales been a citizen, of course, none of this "Endgame" stuff would have
mattered.

So the first thing his lawyers did was argue that he was a U.S. citizen. Their
argument was this: Under current law, an unmarried child under 18 automatically
becomes a citizen if he or she is living with a parent who becomes a citizen.
Morales' mother became a citizen when he was 8. That would have been a pretty
good argument except for the fact that the current law did not go into effect
until 2001. Under the old law, both parents had to become citizens before the
child turned 18. Morales' father, who has since died, didn't become a citizen
until Morales was 20.

What the lawyers were really asking for, I suspect, was a break. After all, the
"Endgame" policy was really meant for terrorists, not for somebody like Morales.
So if one law is applied in a case for which it was not intended, should a judge
make things right by misapplying another law? It would be a stretch to say that
as long as the sole surviving parent did become a citizen before the child
turned 18, the child could be considered a citizen, but why not stretch it? The
judge said no.

So two new lawyers tried another argument in a different jurisdiction. Gene
McNary and Frank Kaveney argued that Morales should be allowed to withdraw the
guilty plea that he made six years ago. They argued that he should have been
warned that his plea could lead to deportation. Well, the law under which he was
deported went into effect in 1996 -- so, yes, maybe he should have been warned
-- but then again, it wasn't much used until after September 2001. So how could
somebody have thought to warn him in 1998?

But at least there was an argument that could be made, and Judge Carolyn
Whittington issued an order setting aside the guilty plea.

That action was opposed, incidentally, by Bob McCulloch, the county prosecutor.

Interestingly, McNary, the former prosecutor, county executive and chief of the
INS, is a Republican, and Whittington was first appointed to the bench by
then-Gov. John Ashcroft. The stereotypes run in the opposite direction. You
might expect the Democrat to be compassionate and the Republicans to be rigid.

McNary and Kaveney are certain to ask McCulloch for a new deal in which Morales
can plead guilty to a misdemeanor. Because cases are more difficult to prosecute
after time has elapsed -- evidence gets lost or destroyed and witnesses forget
things -- such a deal might be likely. On the other hand, maybe the case will go
to trial.

If it were to go to trial, the jurors would probably not be allowed to know the
ramifications of the verdict. Or maybe they would somehow connect the dots, and
if so, 12 citizens would have to decide between the letter of the law and common
sense.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: <NONE>

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              115 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 7, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Immigration case needs a shot of common sense

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO; Bill McClellan; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 659 words


NOW AND THEN, the system clearly does not work, and the people inside the system
have to rely on common sense. That seems to be what is happening in the case of
Andres Morales.

His parents brought him to this country from Mexico when he was 1 year old. He
was raised here and went to school here. When he was a teenager, he got into
some trouble with marijuana. He pleaded guilty of possession of marijuana with
intent to distribute, which is a felony, and he was placed on probation. Upon
completion of his probation, his record was cleared. He is now 26 years old, and
along with his mother, he runs a restaurant in Hazelwood. In March, he went to
Mexico to attend a cousin's wedding. When he attempted to return to this
country, he was stopped at the border. Under the tightened enforcement of
immigration laws following the attacks of 9-11, his conviction for an
"aggravated felony" made him ineligible to enter the country. This was part of a
policy called "Endgame" that went into effect last year after the Immigration
and Naturalization Service was shifted to the Department of Homeland Security.
"Endgame" calls for the removal of all "removable aliens."

Had Morales been a citizen, of course, none of this "Endgame" stuff would have
mattered.

So the first thing his lawyers did was argue that he was a U.S. citizen. Their
argument was this: Under current law, an unmarried child under 18 automatically
becomes a citizen if he or she is living with a parent who becomes a citizen.
Morales' mother became a citizen when he was 8. That would have been a pretty
good argument except for the fact that the current law did not go into effect
until 2001. Under the old law, both parents had to become citizens before the
child turned 18. Morales' father, who has since died, didn't become a citizen
until Morales was 20.

What the lawyers were really asking for, I suspect, was a break. After all, the
"Endgame" policy was really meant for terrorists, not for somebody like Morales.
So if one law is applied in a case for which it was not intended, should a judge
make things right by misapplying another law? It would be a stretch to say that
as long as the sole surviving parent did become a citizen before the child
turned 18, the child could be considered a citizen, but why not stretch it? The
judge said no.

So two new lawyers tried another argument in a different jurisdiction. Gene
McNary and Frank Kaveney argued that Morales should be allowed to withdraw the
guilty plea that he made six years ago. They argued that he should have been
warned that his plea could lead to deportation. Well, the law under which he was
deported went into effect in 1996 -- so, yes, maybe he should have been warned
-- but then again, it wasn't much used until after September 2001. So how could
somebody have thought to warn him in 1998?

But at least there was an argument that could be made, and Judge Carolyn
Whittington issued an order setting aside the guilty plea.

That action was opposed, incidentally, by Bob McCulloch, the county prosecutor.

Interestingly, McNary, the former prosecutor, county executive and chief of the
INS, is a Republican, and Whittington was first appointed to the bench by
then-Gov. John Ashcroft. The stereotypes run in the opposite direction. You
might expect the Democrat to be compassionate and the Republicans to be rigid.

McNary and Kaveney are certain to ask McCulloch for a new deal in which Morales
can plead guilty to a misdemeanor. Because cases are more difficult to prosecute
after time has elapsed -- evidence gets lost or destroyed and witnesses forget
things -- such a deal might be likely. On the other hand, maybe the case will go
to trial.

If it were to go to trial, the jurors would probably not be allowed to know the
ramifications of the verdict. Or maybe they would somehow connect the dots, and
if so, 12 citizens would have to decide between the letter of the law and common
sense.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: <NONE>

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              116 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 3, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Top immigration official welcomes new Americans here

BYLINE: PATRICE RELERFORD Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 507 words


* Seventy-two people representing 32 nations took citizenship oaths at the Old
Courthouse.

Speeches about America being a nation of immigrants were not important to
everyone in the audience at the Old Courthouse on Friday. Grace Duong, 2, cared
more about playing with the orange stuffed "Garfield" toy that her father had
given her than watching her mother, Hai Thay Nguyen, take the oath of
citizenship.

When Grace grew tired of the cat, she looked for her mother but lost her in the
crowd. She began to cry and call for her mother.

But Nguyen had left her seat to receive her naturalization certificate and to
have her picture taken with Eduardo Aguirre Jr., director of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, and U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber
of the Eastern District of Missouri.

As soon as the picture was taken, Nguyen rushed back to her husband and
daughter. She smiled and held Grace's hand while clutching the envelope that
contained her naturalization certificate. Grace quieted down.

Nationwide, about 16,000 people were being sworn in as citizens this week in 122
ceremonies. Aguirre attended only a few of the ceremonies, but he could remember
his own -- he arrived from Cuba in the early 1960s when he was 15 years old as
part of 14,000 children sent by their parents to flee Fidel Castro's regime. He
was sworn in as a U.S. citizen in 1970 in Houston. He later became a banker.

In his remarks, Aguirre said that his agency was making a high priority of
reducing a backlog of residency and citizenship applications but that post-9/11
security measures such as background checks would not be compromised.

"We're going to retain what makes America great by keeping our open doors," he
said. "But we're going to make sure they're well-guarded."

At the Old Courthouse, Nguyen was one of 72 people representing 32 countries.
They were called in groups based on their countries of origin. The largest
group, 19, was from Bosnia-Herzegovina. Nguyen and her husband, Duy Duong, had
moved to St. Louis from Vietnam; he became a citizen in 1999, and they live in
the south part of the city.

Asked what she was looking forward to doing now, she replied, "I want to travel
with a U.S. passport and write a petition for my mother to come here."

Her husband reminded her that she needed to register to vote before the upcoming
election.

Long Bui, 78, of St. Charles, also stood when Vietnam was called. He has been in
the U.S. for more than 20 years and seemed relaxed, an American flag sticking
out of his shirt pocket. His daughter Lisa Bui stood by him and took pictures.

Martha Elias, 13, of St. Louis, leaned on a wall and smiled proudly as her
sister, Harnet Nuguse, 28, was sworn in. "She's the only one from Eritrea,"
Martha said.

Judge Webber administered the oath of naturalization. "Those who gain their
citizenship by choice tend to appreciate it more than those who gain it
automatically," he said.

Added Aguirre, "It's a great day to be an American, but an even better day to
become one."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: LOCAL

GRAPHIC: photo; (1) Photo headshot - (Eduardo) Aguirre (Jr.) An immigrant from
Cuba (2) Photo by KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Long Bui, 78, a Vietnamese
native now living in St. Charles, is among those taking the oath of U.S.
citizenship at a ceremony Friday in the rotunda of the Old Courthouse in
downtown St. Louis. Bui has lived in the United States for 20 years but said he
had been reluctant to renounce his Vietnamese citizenship, until now.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              117 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 9, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

WAR DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; War Digest Column; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 795 words


WASHINGTON

Agents will photograph certain foreigners

Immigration agents at the nation's border crossings, airports and seaports will
begin this week to fingerprint and photograph foreigners they suspect may pose
security risks. They also will require those visitors to report regularly where
they are staying and what they are doing in the United States.

The new procedures are intended to improve the monitoring of certain foreigners.
They will apply to anyone arriving with a student, business or tourist visa and
who is believed to fit the criteria of a potential terrorist.

Justice Department officials said they would not disclose the standards that the
agents will use in determining who will be required to give the identification,
for fear of jeopardizing intelligence-gathering.

Still, the widespread assumption among civil liberties groups and American
Muslims is that visitors from Arab and Islamic nations will receive the closest
scrutiny.

The new measures are supposed to take effect on a trial basis at some ports of
entry on Wednesday and to be in operation at all border crossings by Oct. 1. The
Justice Department would not identify the ports that will start the new
monitoring this week.

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Jorge Martinez said fingerprints and
photographs would automatically be taken of any citizen of Iran, Iraq, Syria,
Sudan and Libya. In 2001, 44,000 student, business and other temporary visas
were issued to visitors from those countries.

NEW YORK

Pataki honors state's National Guard members

Gov. George Pataki on Sunday paid tribute to New York's National Guard members,
handing out medals designed to honor those called to duty after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

At the New York City armory, Pataki told about 400 Guard members that their
service in the aftermath of the attack on the World Trade Center was crucial to
the state and the city's security and recovery.

Since Sept. 11, more than 15,000 of the 23,000 members of the New York National
Guard have been called to active duty. They were deployed to provide security
around the World Trade Center site, at New York City airports, bridges and
tunnels, at nuclear plants and along the Canadian border.

"It means a great deal," said Sgt. Heidi Merrithew, of Warrensburg, N.Y., who
served with the 109th Airlift Wing. "To know we did something to help means a
lot."

Elsewhere in the city, New Yorkers and visitors remembered the terrorist attacks
with tributes, ceremonies and recollections of private grief.

A parade of pilots from all 50 states flew down the Hudson River in a tribute to
the victims of the terrorist attack.

Other events taking place Sunday included a memorial walk led by paralyzed
police detective Steven McDonald, the presentation of a plaque honoring transit
workers, and a Brooklyn remembrance service at Fire Company 226.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

On visit to U.S., Musharraf vows to fight terrorism

Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf repeated his support Sunday for an
international anti-terrorism effort and said Islamic radicals must be held in
check in his nation and elsewhere.

Speaking at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, Musharraf said
the world needs a better understanding of Islam and the roots of terrorism.
Hate, he said, "must be stamped out with the same zeal with which the fights
against terrorism is being pursued."

"We must diagnose the malaise and treat the root causes of terrorism. What is it
that conjures up such storms in the mind? What motivates a suicide bomber that
his instinct for survival is overcome by a death wish?"

Musharraf is in the United States for the start of the annual debate at the U.N.
General Assembly.

AFGHANISTAN

Fighting breaks out in southeastern Afghan city

Conflicts flared Sunday in the volatile southeastern Afghan city of Khost. A
small bomb exploded in a music shop, and fighting broke out between gunmen loyal
to a renegade warlord and government-allied soldiers.

Five people were seriously injured in the explosion in Khost, said Lt. Tina
Kroske, a U.S. military spokeswoman. She said the blast was caused by a grenade,
but it was unclear who threw it.

Sur Gul, an Afghan military commander who spoke from Khost by satellite
telephone, said the explosion took place in a music store. Music and video shops
have often been targets of attacks in Khost, a stronghold of the former Taliban
regime, which outlawed such entertainment as an abomination.

Late Sunday, militiamen loyal to Bacha Khan Zadran attacked a checkpoint in
Khost controlled by Gov. Hakim Taniwal, said Interior Ministry spokesman Alishah
Paktiawal. The governor is allied with President Hamid Karzai.

No other details of the fighting were immediately available.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD FOCUS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              118 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 7, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

OLDER IMMIGRANTS EMBRACE THE AURA OF CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NORTH POST ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words


* Age can't keep these people from around the world from their dream of becoming
Americans.

They stood ramrod straight, hands on hearts, more than a dozen people singing
the national anthem. Most were older than 70. They sang "Oh say, can you see"
with a polyglot of accents: Bosnian, Vietnamese, Spanish.What they could see was
American citizenship. Most of the class members will become citizens within a
year.

The singers were students in the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis' citizenship preparation class for older people. The institute is at 3654
South Grand Boulevard.

The students were learning English and about the American government to pass the
citizenship test.

As for their motivations for learning another language and culture late in life,
they all said about the same thing, but in different words.

"I want to be a citizen of the U.S.; I see the need to change cultures," said
Shyris de la Torre, 70, formerly of Colombia, now lives in Overland. De la
Torre, a bursar in her original country, uses a pocket-size computer to help her
communicate in English, even though glaucoma affects her vision.

Thuan Nguyen had a similar outlook. "Citizenship is a good thing; this is my
country now," he said.

Thuan, 74, began his life in Vietnam and worked as a civil servant for the
United States in the Vietnam War. After the war, he couldn't get a job. He now
lives in the 4100 block of Potomac Street in St. Louis. His lessons are at the
stage where he has greater fluency writing than speaking.

Halil Ramadani is looking forward to voting. "I want to be a citizen, to learn
to vote," he said. "America is my country."

Ramadani, 71, lives in University City and came from Bosnia. His complexion is
ruddy. He wears jeans and a baseball cap.

The fact that they must be citizens to get benefits such as Medicare sometimes
fuels the desire for citizenship.

Their teacher, Marjie Brammeier, 52, lives in the Central West End. She teaches
them things many Americans no longer know. Who was the third president of the
United States? Who was the 16th president?

On a recent day, she was teaching them the words of the national anthem and
their meaning. She showed them two cards: One said "rampart," and the other gave
the word's meaning, defensive wall.

She teaches them by sight and repetition. She is lively, acting out words. There
are no tests here, only comfort and further instruction. No unruly or sleepy
students, either.

Brammeier holds up the words "bombs bursting in air." She then holds up the
definition: explode.

Spontaneously, Vahida Cekic, 57, of the 4900 block of South Broadway in St.
Louis, states one of the reasons behind her quest for citizenship. "When I was
in Bosnia, they bombed my house three times."

Helping refugees

The International Institute of Metropolian St. Louis offers translation and
other services that help refugees settle in this country, including classes in
English and U.S. citizenship, and employment, social, health and mental
services, plus economic development. It also has cultural programs, a community
outreach program and a speakers bureau. Some services are free. The Institute is
based at 3654 South Grand in the Gravois Park neighorhood. For information, call
314-773-9090 or go to www.intlinst.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTOS BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS ; (1) Ngoc Doan (left), 66, a case
worker for the International Institute, helps Dang Don, 71, find his way around
a sample ballot in a voting booth at an event the Institute held at Tower Grove
Park.; (2) Shyris de la Torre, 70, listens intently to a citizenship lecture. De
la Torre, formerly of Colombia, lives in Overland and uses a pocket-size
computer to help her communicate in English.; (3) Marjie Brammeier, 52, of St.
Louis, teaches a 10-week citizenship class at the International Institute, in
the 3600 block of South Grand Boulevard.; (4) Hinh The Nguyen (center), 64, of
St. Louis, studies his ballot Tuesday as Fadumo Sheikh Adan (right), 74, of St.
Louis, looks away. They wait their turn to practice voting at the citizenship
event sponsored by the International Institute.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              119 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 7, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

OLDER IMMIGRANTS ALSO HAIL PROUDLY

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words


They stood ramrod straight, hands on hearts, more than a dozen people singing
the national anthem. Most were older than 70. They sang "Oh say, can you see"
with a polyglot of accents: Bosnian, Vietnamese, Spanish.

What they could see was American citizenship. Most of the class members will
become citizens within a year.

The singers were students in the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis' citizenship preparation class for older people. The institute is at 3654
South Grand Boulevard.

The students were learning English and about the American government to pass the
citizenship test.

As for their motivations for learning another language and culture late in life,
they all said about the same thing, but in different words.

"I want to be a citizen of the U.S.; I see the need to change cultures," said
Shyris de la Torre, 70, formerly of Colombia, now of Overland. De la Torre, a
bursar in her original country, uses a pocket-size computer to help her
communicate in English, even though glaucoma can make her eyes milky.

Thuan Nguyen had a similar outlook. "Citizenship is a good thing; this is my
country now," he said.

Thuan, 74, began his life in Vietnam and worked as a civil servant for the
United States in the Vietnam War. After the war, he couldn't get a job. He now
lives in the 4100 block of Potomac Street in St. Louis. His lessons are at the
stage where he has greater fluency writing than speaking.

Halil Ramadani is looking forward to voting. "I want to be a citizen, to learn
to vote," he said. "America is my country."

Ramadani, 71, lives in University City and came from Bosnia. His complexion is
ruddy. He wears jeans and a baseball cap.

The fact that they must be citizens to get benefits such as Medicare sometimes
fuels the desire for citizenship.

Their teacher, Marjie Brammeier, 52, lives in the Central West End. She teaches
them things many Americans no longer know. Who was the third president of the
United States? Who was the 16th president?

On a recent day, she was teaching them the words of the national anthem and
their meaning. She showed them two cards: One said "rampart," and the other gave
the word's meaning, "defensive wall."

She teaches them by sight and repetition. She is lively, acting out words. There
are no tests here, only comfort and further instruction. No unruly or sleepy
students, either.

Brammeier holds up the words "bombs bursting in air." She then holds up the
definition: "explode."

Spontaneously, Vahida Cekic, 57, of the 4900 block of South Broadway in St.
Louis, states one of the reasons behind her quest for citizenship. "When I was
in Bosnia, they bombed my house three times."

The International Institute

The International Institute of Metropolian St. Louis offers translation and
other services that help refugees settle in this country, including classes in
English and U.S. citizenship, and employment, social, health and mental
services, plus economic development. It also has cultural programs, a community
outreach program and a speakers bureau. Some services are free. The Institute is
based at 3654 South Grand in the Gravois Park neighorhood. For information, call
314-773-9090 or go to www.intlinst.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) COLOR PHOTO BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS - Ngoc Doan (left), 66, a
case worker for the International Institute, helps Dang Don, 71, find his way
around a sample ballot in a voting booth at an event the Institute held at Tower
Grove Park. Doan lives in Webster Groves; Don lives in St. Louis.; (2) COLOR
PHOTO BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS - Hinh The Nguyen (center), 64, of St. Louis, studies
his ballot Tuesday as Fadumo Sheikh Adan (right), 74, of St. Louis, looks away.
They wait their turn to practice voting at the citizenship event sponsored by
the International Institute. The event allowed elderly immigrants to meet and
celebrate their citizenship, learn how to use voting machines and register to
vote. Nguyen, who is originally from Vietnam, has lived in the United States for
seven years; he became a c itizen itizen six months ago. Adan, who is from
Somalia, has lived here for eight years and is studying to become a citizen.;
(3) PHOTO BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS - ABOVE LEFT: Marjie Brammeier, 52, of St. Louis,
teaches a 10-week citizenship class at the International Institute, in the 3600
block of South Grand Boulevard. Here she shows her students important words and
phrases.; (4) PHOTO BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS - ABOVE RIGHT: Shyris de la Torre, 70,
listens intently as Brammeier speaks. De la Torre, formerly of Colombia, lives
in Overland; she uses a pocket-size computer to help her communicate in
English.; (5) PHOTO BY TRISHA L. SIDDENS - Hap Dinh of Affton, a case worker at
the International Institute and a voting registrar, swears in Marie M. Fortulis
Juste, 80, of St. Louis, at the institute's citizenship event. Fortulis Juste,
who is originally from Haiti, has lived in the United States for nine years and
became a citizen almost a year ago. Dinh was born in Vietnam and has lived here
for eight years.; Charles Bryson of the office of St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay
congratulates Huong Thi Vo, 66, of St. Louis as she receives a certificate. Vo,
from Vietnam, recently became a U.S. citizen after living here for seven years.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              120 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 8, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

INS IS FAILING TO DEPORT CRIMINAL ALIENS, REPORT FINDS;
 SOME FOREIGN-BORN INMATES COMMIT CRIMES IN U.S. AFTER SERVING JAIL TIME

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of foreign-born inmates who should be deported after completing their
sentences are instead released back into U.S. communities, where some commit
more crimes, a new government report says.

Glenn Fine, inspector general for the Justice Department, said Monday that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service was failing to identify and process many
criminal aliens serving time in local jails.

The report examined the INS' Institutional Removal Program in California and
Florida and found that many inmates who were "potentially deportable prior to
release went on to commit other crimes in the community, including drug
possession, spousal abuse and child molestation."

The findings are the latest in a list of INS problems identified since the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks. The INS first came under fire when it was learned that 15
of the 19 hijackers entered the United States legally on travel visas.

Since Sept. 11, the agency also has come under fire for:

* Sending out student visa approval notices for two of the dead hijackers.

* Failing to act on decade-old information that a gunman who killed two people
at the Los Angeles International Airport had been linked by Egyptian authorities
to a terrorist organization.

* Allowing four Pakistanis into the United States off a ship docked in Norfolk,
Va., contrary to immigration service policy.

The INS set up its jail program in 1988, bringing together lawyers, immigration
judges and aliens to speed up deportations. The goal is to complete judicial and
administrative review proceedings before the criminal aliens complete their
sentences.

The INS' performance has been a long-running issue because of a 1996 law
lowering the thresholds for making criminal aliens eligible for deportation.

The changes in the law expanded the definition of an aggravated felony and
reduced the sentencing minimums for some crimes from five years to one year.

"As a result, the county jails became a large source of potentially deportable
candidates," the report says. "We found that the INS was not making a consistent
or comprehensive effort to check local jail booking records on a daily basis for
deportable criminal aliens at the local facilities."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              121 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   October 13, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

REFUGEE CAMPS AROUND NATION ARE EMPTY AFTER POST-SEPT. 11 IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: COMER, GA.


The once-crowded refugee camp in the foothills of the Appalachians is
practically a ghost town. Gone are the Afghans studying English, children from
Kosovo playing basketball and Sudanese "lost boys" learning how to adjust to
life in America.

Refugee transition centers across the country are in the same situation: Housing
stands empty, schools are half-filled and volunteers are not being put to work.

Most of the centers are deserted because the U.S. government tightened the
borders in reaction to the attacks of Sept. 11.

As part of post-Sept. 11 security measures, all male refugees ages 15 to 50 from
Muslim countries who are candidates for resettlement must undergo FBI scrutiny.
The FBI issues "security advisory opinions" on each candidate on whether he is a
risk.

Last month, U.S. officials said they expected that no more than half of 70,000
refugees projected for resettlement during the year ending Sept. 30 would
actually arrive in the country.

Refugee advocates in the United States complain that the security clampdown
means that thousands of people fleeing wars or oppression cannot get out or are
living in dirty tent cities outside their native lands.

On the 260-acre northern Georgia refuge run by the Christian group Jubilee
Partners, two families totaling 10 people are in the transition program.
Normally, 30 refugees would be here, most staying about two months.

Jennifer Drago, director of the refugee program at Jubilee Partners, said
refugees from places such as Iraq and Sudan are not threats to U.S. security.

"No terrorist is going to go through years of living in poverty in refugee camps
to get into the United States," she said. "It's just to show we've tightened up
on security, even though it's not a good use of money."

Gene Dewey, the State Department's top official for refugees, said last month
that he was hopeful that procedures could be streamlined to ease the bottleneck.

"The task is to balance the need to provide protection to as many as possible
who need protection and to protect the people of the United States from
evildoers," he said.

Refugees at Jubilee Partners stay for two months while they learn such things as
how to count American money, speak English and operate kitchen appliances. Then
they get help finding a place to live and a job in the Atlanta area, about 75
miles to the west.

Betty Lado, 24, and her husband came to Jubilee Partners after escaping from
Sudan, which is in a 20-year civil war. Lado said she was seized during a
government sweep and was interrogated, beaten and separated from her husband
before escaping to Egypt.

John Ojego also was jailed in a roundup and escaped to Egypt, where he waited
for 2 1/2 years to get into America. His family and Lado went through additional
interviews after Sept. 11 before being allowed into the United States.

"I'm very lucky my process went ahead," Ojego said. "Most people are rejected
from the refugee program."

Bob Carey, of the International Rescue Committee, said if the terrorists' goal
was to attack American values, they succeeded by reducing the flow of refugees.

"Providing refuge to people who are fleeing persecution is a vital part of our
national heritage," said Carey, whose agency is one of 10 nationwide that work
to settle refugees in the United States. "Our identity as a nation is at risk of
becoming another victim of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Samuel Ojego, 14, a refugee
from Sudan, takes down some laundry at the refugee camp run by the Christian
group Jubilee Partners, in Comer, Ga., last month. Two families, totaling 10
residents, are in a transition program at the camp. Normally, 30 refugees would
stay there at a time.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              122 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 4, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

PROUDLY THEY HAIL: OLDER IMMIGRANTS STUDY TO BECOME AMERICAN CITIZENS

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 557 words


* Age can't keep them from pursuing their dream, and the International Institute
of Metropolitan St. Louis is there to help.

They stood ramrod straight, hands on hearts, more than a dozen people singing
the national anthem. Most were older than 70. They sang "Oh say, can you see"
with a polyglot of accents: Bosnian, Vietnamese, Spanish.

What they could see was American citizenship. Most members of the class members
will become citizens within a year.

The singers were students in the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis' citizenship preparation class for older people. The institute is at 3654
South Grand Boulevard.

The students were learning English and about the American government to pass the
citizenship test.

As for their motivations for learning another language and culture late in life,
they all said about the same thing, but in different words.

"I want to be a citizen of the U.S.; I see the need to change cultures," said
Shyris de la Torre, 70, formerly of Colombia, now of Overland. De la Torre, a
bursar in her original country, uses a pocket-size computer to help her
communicate in English, even though glaucoma can make her eyes milky.

Thuan Nguyen had a similar outlook. "Citizenship is a good thing; this is my
country now," he said.

Thuan, 74, began his life in Vietnam and worked as a civil servant for the
United States in the Vietnam War. After the war, he couldn't get a job. He now
lives in the 4100 block of Potomac Street in St. Louis. His lessons are at the
stage where he has greater fluency writing than speaking.

Halil Ramadani is looking forward to voting. "I want to be a citizen, to learn
to vote," he said. "America is my country."

Ramadani, 71, lives in University City and came from Bosnia. His complexion is
ruddy. He wears jeans and a baseball cap.

The fact that they must be citizens to get benefits such as Medicare sometimes
fuels the desire for citizenship.

Their teacher, Marjie Brammeier, 52, lives in the Central West End. She teaches
them things many Americans no longer know. Who was the third president of the
United States? Who was the 16th president?

On a recent day, she was teaching them the words of the national anthem and
their meaning. She showed them two cards: One said "rampart," and the other gave
the word's meaning, defensive wall.

She teaches them by sight and repetition. She is lively, acting out word s.
There are no tests here, only comfort and further instruction. No unruly or
sleepy students, either.

Brammeier holds up the words "bombs bursting in air." She then holds up the
definition: explode.

Spontaneously, Vahida Cekic, 57, of the 4900 block of South Broadway in St.
Louis, states one of the reasons behind her quest for citizenship. "When I was
in Bosnia, they bombed my house three times."

= = = =

The International Institute

The International Institute of (Metropolitan) Metropolian St. Louis offers
translation and other services that help refugees settle in this country,
including classes in English and U.S. citizenship, and employment, social,
health and mental services, plus economic development. It also has cultural
programs, an outreach program and a speakers bureau. Some services are free. The
Institute is at 3654 South Grand Boulevard. For information call 314-773-9090 or
go to www.intlinst.org.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe: E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photos by TRISHA L. SIDDENS; (1) Ngoc Doan (left), 66, a case
worker for the International Institute, helps Dang Don, 71, with a sample ballot
at an event in Tower Grove Park. Doan lives in Webster Groves; Don lives in St.
Louis.; (2) ABOVE: Hinh The Nguyen (center), 64, of St. Louis and formerly from
Vietnam, studies his ballot as Fadumo Sheikh Adan (right), 74, of St. Louis and
formerly from Somalia, waits to practice voting at the citizenship event.; (3)
LEFT: Huong Thi Vo (right), 66, of St. Louis and formerly from Vietnam, receives
a certificate from Charles Bryson of the mayor's office.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 9, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

JORDAN SHOWS A LESS FRIENDLY FACE TO ILLEGAL IRAQI IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, JORDAN


* Many are fleeing Baghdad because they fear a U.S. attack. But they are finding
it harder to enter Jordan - and to remain if they do get in.

White police vans with bars on the windows cruise almost daily through Amman's
industrial zone, where factories churn out everything from detergent to candy.

The first Iraqi worker to spot a police patrol rings a makeshift alarm, and
others scatter to avoid getting caught working without valid residency permits.

"Everyone here is so afraid," said a 35-year-old secretary, who refused to be
identified because she is in Jordan illegally. "If they get caught, they will be
sent back to Baghdad for sure."

Fearing war with the United States, more Iraqis are trying to flee to
neighboring Jordan. But the reception in Jordan, never warm, has become markedly
less friendly, according to displaced Iraqis, aid workers and U.N. officials.

Border controls are being tightened and residency permits shortened, they say;
raids and identity checks in factories and Iraqi neighborhoods are being stepped
up; and people in Jordan illegally - especially military-age men - are being
deported, they say.

Government officials say they are simply enforcing rules to crack down on
illegal workers in Jordan, where the unofficial jobless rate reaches 25 percent.

But the focus is clearly on Iraqis, observers say.

"In the current situation, the government is obviously on its toes," said Sten
Bronee, the U.N. refugee agency representative in Jordan.

"There are indications that people are not being allowed into Jordan like they
used to be. Increasing numbers of Iraqis are being detained pending
deportation."

Although Iraq recently canceled the departure tax that prevented many from
leaving, it is not allowing men of military age to go, said Jamal Hattar,
director of the Caritas aid group in Jordan.

In addition, young men caught in Jordan illegally are reportedly being sent
directly back to Iraq now instead of being given the option to go somewhere else
where a visa is not required, he said.

"Being a next-door neighbor, it's a very sensitive issue to accept
asylum-seekers here," Hattar said. "This would imply that you are working
against Iraq."

Jordan, a key U.S. ally in the region, also strives to stay on good terms with
Iraq, which provides it with free or discounted oil and buys more of its exports
than any other country.

Moreover, Jordan is afraid of being overwhelmed by a new tide of Iraqis, on top
of the estimated 350,000 who have arrived since the 1990-91 Persian Gulf War and
stayed, most of them illegally.

More than half the desert kingdom's 5.2 million people already are or were
refugees - Palestinians displaced by the 1948 and 1967 Arab-Israeli wars.

King Abdullah insists that if a new conflict breaks out, Jordan will allow in
only refugees en route to a third country.

Yet despite the new difficulties, the flow doesn't seem to be stopping.

"There are a lot leaving (Iraq) now because of the threat of war," said Dr.
Angie Schupp, an American who helps run a clinic for Iraqi refugees in Amman.
"They don't want to be there if America strikes."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TOP OF THE NEWS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              124 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 12, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 562 words


WASHINGTON

Unaligned senator keeps Sen. Daschle in power

Dean Barkley said Monday that he would not align with either party when he
becomes Minnesota's interim senator, leaving Democrats in temporary Senate
control during a postelection session.

The decision by Barkley, an independent, to remain neutral means Senate Majority
Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., will continue in that post when the Senate convenes
today. Daschle will decide what bills the Senate debates until the GOP assumes
control - probably later this month with the expected arrival of Republican Jim
Talent, who won a special Senate election in Missouri.

Senate Democrats have a 50-49 edge, including their support from the chamber's
other independent, Sen. James Jeffords of Vermont.

KEY WEST, Fla.

Two-seat plane carrying 8 Cubans touches down

A two-seat cargo plane crammed with eight members of a Cuban family, including a
baby, landed Monday at the Key West airport in an apparent bid for asylum by
those aboard.

The small biplane was escorted by two U.S. fighter jets as it landed late in the
morning, airport director Peter Horton said. Under U.S. law, Cubans who reach
U.S. soil are virtually guaranteed the right to stay and eventually apply for
permanent residency.

The Cubans were expected to be released to relatives in Florida, said
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia. The group
consisted of four men, three women and an infant girl, Garcia said.

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.

Nearly 200 contract virus while on cruise

Nearly 200 people contracted a contagious stomach virus during a Caribbean
cruise that ended Monday, company officials said.

None of the 163 passengers or 18 crew members who became sick on Holland
America's Amsterdam had to be hospitalized, said cruise spokeswoman Rose Abello.

The ship had about 1,900 people on board.

Officials determined that the virus was contracted from person-to-person contact
on the ship, and began with an infected person on a previous cruise.

SEATTLE

Teen is burned trying to copy stunt from TV show

A 15-year-old boy suffered serious burns when he set himself on fire trying to
re-enact a stunt from MTV's controversial show "Jackass," police said Monday.

The boy, from the Seattle suburb of Bellevue, soaked his shirt in rubbing
alcohol late Friday and ignited it while his friends stood by with a video
camera shooting footage they planned to sell, police and local media reported.

After suffering first-degree burns over his face and upper body, the teenager
initially told police that someone had set his clothes on fire while he walked
on a trail after attending a high school football game in Issaquah, Wash.,
police said.

LOS ANGELES

Juvenile is arrested in slaying of actor Santana

A young woman was arrested Monday in connection with the slaying of actor Merlin
Santana, who was gunned down two days earlier as he sat in a parked car in South
Los Angeles.

Santana, 26, best known for his role as Romeo Santana on "The Steve Harvey
Show," was shot in the 3800 block of Victoria Avenue, a quiet residential
street.

After the suspect was taken into custody, police determined she was a juvenile,
authorities said. They provided no further details.

Santana, of Los Angeles, was fatally shot about 2:45 a.m. Saturday after at
least one person approached the vehicle, police said.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Dean) Barkley, Interim senator from Minnesota

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              125 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 12, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 584 words


WASHINGTON

Unaligned senator keeps Sen. Daschle in power

Dean Barkley said Monday that he would not align with either party when he
becomes Minnesota's interim senator, leaving Democrats in temporary Senate
control during a postelection session.

The decision by Barkley, an independent, to remain neutral means Senate Majority
Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., will continue in that post when the Senate convenes
today. Daschle will decide what bills the Senate debates until the GOP assumes
control - probably later this month with the expected arrival of Republican Jim
Talent, who won a special Senate election in Missouri.

Senate Democrats have a 50-49 edge, including their support from the chamber's
other independent, Sen. James Jeffords of Vermont.

KEY WEST, Fla.

Two-seat plane carrying 8 Cubans touches down

A two-seat cargo plane crammed with eight members of a Cuban family, including a
baby, landed Monday at the Key West airport in an apparent bid for asylum by
those aboard.

The small biplane was escorted by two U.S. fighter jets as it landed late in the
morning, airport director Peter Horton said. Under U.S. law, Cubans who reach
U.S. soil are virtually guaranteed the right to stay and eventually apply for
permanent residency.

The Cubans were expected to be released to relatives in Florida, said
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia. The group
consisted of four men, three women and an infant girl, Garcia said.

NEW YORK

Officers who criticized city wins settlement in firing

The city has agreed to pay $327,500 to a black police officer fired after
criticizing the department after the fatal shooting of unarmed African immigrant
Amadou Diallo, her lawyer said Monday.

The Police Department also agreed to reinstate Yvette Walton so she can retire
with a pension, said her New York Civil Liberties Union attorney, Christopher
Dunn. Walton, 40, "has been completely vindicated," Dunn said. "She intends to
move on with her life."

Former Police Commissioner Howard Safir had testified that Walton was fired for
disciplinary reasons unrelated to her comments. But U.S. District Judge Alvin
Hellerstein found last year that Walton would not have been fired if she had not
criticized the department after the 1999 shooting.

SEATTLE

Teen is burned trying to copy stunt from TV show

A 15-year-old boy suffered serious burns when he set himself on fire trying to
re-enact a stunt from MTV's controversial show "Jackass," police said Monday.

The boy, from the Seattle suburb of Bellevue, soaked his shirt in rubbing
alcohol late Friday and ignited it while his friends stood by with a video
camera shooting footage they planned to sell, police and local media reported.

After suffering first-degree burns over his face and upper body, the teenager
initially told police that someone had set his clothes on fire while he walked
on a trail after attending a high school football game in Issaquah, Wash.,
police said.

NEW YORK

Bubonic plague victim shows slight improvement

A New Mexico man with bubonic plague has improved slightly, but remains
hospitalized in critical condition, while his wife continues to respond well to
treatment, hospital officials said Monday.

The cases are believed to be the first instance of the deadly bacterial disease
in New York in a century.

Health officials suspect that the couple contracted the disease from rodents on
their property in Santa Fe, N.M. They fell ill while visiting New York.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Dean) Barkley, Interim senator from Minnesota

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              126 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 14, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

MANY MUSLIM VISITORS FACE FINGERPRINTING SOON;
 U.S. SAYS THEY ARE FROM NATIONS SPONSORING TERROR

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 472 words


Beginning Friday, about 3,000 visitors from five Muslim countries must report to
local offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service across the country
to be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed.

The registration of males between the ages of 16 and 45 from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Syria and Sudan is the latest effort by the government to tighten the tracking
of visitors from countries that the State Department considers sponsors of
terrorism.

The fingerprints, photos and interview details will be compared against
information contained in criminal, terrorism and immigration databases,
according to a spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department.

Since the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System began this Sept. 11,
more than 14,000 have registered and been interviewed at airports and other
ports of entry. Of those, 179 have been arrested on criminal charges or
immigration violations.

The registration that begins Friday is aimed at nonimmigrant workers, students
and others who arrived as temporary visitors in the United States before Sept.
11. Those who fail to register are subject to fines, imprisonment and
deportation.

Some Islamic and Arab groups have criticized the new measures as ethnic
profiling.

"It just falls in line with the ongoing attitude of 'round up the usual
terrorism suspects,'" said Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Council on
American-Islamic Relations, a Washington-based civil rights and advocacy group.
"The attitude seems to be if you roust enough Muslims and Arabs, something will
pop up."

But Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez said the new system is not based
on race or religion.

"That basically counters the argument of our critics that this is racial
profiling," Martinez said. "They are deemed to trigger that automatic
registration because ... where they come from might pose an elevated security
threat."

Martinez said the same requirements might be placed on visitors from other
countries if the need arises.

"That can and will change as intelligence reports tell us differently," Martinez
said. "No country is exempt."

The registration requirements that take effect Friday cover males born on or
before Nov. 15, 1986, who are nationals or citizens from the five countries and
who will remain in the United States at least until Dec. 16. They must present
travel documents and proof of residence, such as school registrations. They must
check in with authorities once a year.

It's uncertain how many of the 3,000 may live in the St. Louis area. O fficials
at several local universities said they are contacting international students,
faculty or others who might be affected by the policy.

Some diplomats, legal permanent residents and other aliens, such as refugees and
asylum applicants and grantees, are not required to register.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              127 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 23, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

13 NATIONS ARE ADDED TO IMMIGRANT REGISTRATION PROGRAM

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* Male visitors 16 and older must be questioned and fingerprinted by the INS.

The Justice Department will require male visitors from 13 additional nations to
show up for fingerprinting and questioning at immigration offices nationwide
starting Dec. 2, a significant expansion of the registration program beyond the
State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism.

The new registration rules were published Friday in the Federal Register. They
will apply to males 16 and older from a number of nations, mostly Muslim:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, N orth Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. The rules apply to
those who entered the United States on visitor visas before Sept. 30 and who
plan to stay at least through Jan. 10.

The rules require visitors to appear by Jan. 10 at an Immigration and
Naturalization Service office to "answer questions under oath before an
immigration officer," and to show travel documents and proof of where they are
living, studying and/or working. And, they must be fingerprinted and
photographed.

Visitors who fail to comply can be deported.

The order said the expansion of the National Security Entry-Exit Registration
System, first announced in June by Attorney General John Ashcroft, was taken "in
light of recent events and based on intelligence information available to the
Attorney General."

Ibrahim Hooper of the Council on American-Islamic Relations criticized the
expansion as a move that could harm instead of aid the war on terrorism.

"It's one more case of singling out of Muslims and Arabs for special treatment,
instead of following real leads and real evidence," Hooper said. "It creates a
lot of resentment, whenever you're singled out based on your religion and
national origin. And it's creating resentment at a time when the United States
needs to improve its image in the Arab and Muslim world. It's
counterproductive."

In a statement Friday, Ashcroft said: "America is an open and generous society
that welcomes visitors from foreign countries, but we recognize after September
11 that we must have a better understanding of who is entering and exiting our
country. The NSEERS program will help us to do that while protecting both the
rights of individuals coming here and the safety of the American people."

On Nov. 4, Ashcroft signed an order requiring similar registration for visitors
from five of the seven nations on the State Department list of state sponsors of
terrorism: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria. The latest order, signed Tuesday
by Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson, included another nation from the
State Department list - North Korea - leaving Cuba as the only nation on the
list whose citizens won't have to register under the program.

"Given the various programs and practices in place dealing with Cubans arriving
in the United States, the objective of the National Security Entry-Exit
Registration System are being generally met for this group," read the order's
explanation.

The rules apply to temporary visitors such as tourists and business travelers
from those nations - but also affect foreign students who already face extra
scrutiny under a new foreign-student tracking system set to go online in
January.

Victor Johnson of the Association of International Educators said the
registration will provide a hardship for many foreign students in the United
States, who study far from an INS office.

"They're being asked many of the same questions the INS knows the answer to in
many instances," Johnson said. "And some of the questions are not legitimate:
'What groups do you belong to? Have you traveled anywhere? Where and who did you
stay with? Tell me about your roommates.'"

In Missouri and Illinois, there are three INS offices where the visitors may
appear for registration: 1222 Spruce Street in St. Louis; 9747 Northwest Conant
Avenue in Kansas City; and 230 South Dearborn Street, 2nd Floor, in Chicago.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TOP OF THE NEWS; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              128 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 15, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

TWIST OF THE TONGUE REVIVES A LOCAL BANK

BYLINE: Patrick Thimangu Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS ; Pg. G1

LENGTH: 993 words


* U.S. Bank's effort to tap the Hispanic market rejuvenates the Gravois Plaza
office, which has grown into a financial center where immigrants can get help
from the Mexican consulate.

U.S. Bank's branch on Gravois Plaza in south St. Louis was struggling two years
ago as customers slowed to a trickle and deposits shriveled.

But the branch revived after it began wooing Spanish-speaking customers in late
2000, said Catherine M. Myers, senior vice president for retail banking in the
St. Louis area. It was part of a nationwide effort U.S. Bank had launched
elsewhere, aimed at grabbing a piece of the rapidly expanding Hispanic market.

"What's neat about this program from my perspective is how many people have come
to us," Myers said. "In the fourth quarter of last year, the Gravois branch grew
deposits by $3 million. ... That's significant for a branch that was
struggling."

The success of Gravois Plaza's local Hispanic initiative came as a surprise to
executives at U.S. Bank's headquarters in Minneapolis. That's because St. Louis
ranks far behind other metropolitan areas as a destination for immigrants,
according to the latest U.S. Census Bureau data.

From 1990 to 1999, only 25,000 immigrants moved to the St. Louis area, the data
showed. That compared with the 137,000 people who immigrated to Boston and
92,000 to Philadelphia during the decade. St. Louis ranked 23rd out of 25 cities
in the number of immigrants, above Cleveland and Pittsburgh.

Because of that, Myers said, U.S. Bank initially did not include the St. Louis
region in the pilot program aimed at attracting Hispanic customers. But she
convinced bank executives that efforts to sell services to Hispanic customers in
St. Louis eventually would bear fruit.

"There are many Hispanics in the region. It goes all the way to doctors. There
are lots of Hispanic-owned businesses, general laborers, landscaping and roofing
companies," Myers said.

An old idea

U.S. Bank's efforts to cater to immigrants is not a new idea among St.
Louis-area financial institutions. Smaller banks, including Pulaski Bank, First
Bank and Southern Commercial Bank, always have done business with various
immigrant groups, said Beth Radtke, vice president and director of development
at the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis.

The institute, which serves about 10,000 refugees and immigrants in the St.
Louis area each year, often collaborates with local banks to offer clients
financial services, Radtke said.

Southern Commercial Bank has served immigrants in the St. Louis area for about a
century. In the 1930s, for example, the bank served German and Spanish
immigrants, said Louis Perkins, senior vice president. Today, the bank is
opening accounts and is issuing loans to newer immigrant groups, including
Bosnian and Vietnamese customers.

Pulaski Bank, founded in 1922, initially served Polish immigrants to the region
and later diversified to include customers from throughout the metropolitan
area.

Radtke said many immigrants and refugees often have limited English skills,
making it difficult to talk with bankers about financial matters. Other refugees
are scared of putting their money in financial institutions because of bad
experiences with banks in their home countries.

"There's a distrust of financial institutions by many immigrants, so we spend
time convincing them to open bank accounts," Radtke said. "Many banks also seem
to be doing outreach to immigrants, especially Bosnians."

Radtke said one way banks are reaching out to immigrants is by hiring
International Institute clients who speak other languages. "We have placed about
20 people in local banks," Radtke said.

Perkins said Southern Commercial has several Bosnian and Spanish speakers on
staff. In addition, the bank has developed lending programs tailored for
immigrants with scant credit histories.

U.S. Bank's initiative seems to be the biggest marketing effort a major bank is
aiming specifically at Hispanics locally, said Gilberto Pinela, executive
director of the St. Louis Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

"U.S. Bank had the foresight and a belief that there is a market, where
everybody else says there's none," Pinela said. "It's all a matter of economics,
how much someone is willing to invest. U.S. Bank seems to be willing to invest.
"

U.S. Bank is sponsoring Spanish programming on local radio and television
stations, including shows hosted by Pinela. Also, the financial institution lets
the Hispanic chamber use its Gravois Plaza branch for meetings.

Hispanics in the region tend to be "fend-for-yourself" people, meaning
immigrants often had to seek out resources by themselves, Pinela said. Newer
immigrants have tended to avoid financial institutions, instead choosing to rely
on one another for financial support, he said.

Many newly arrived Hispanics might avoid banks because they lack identification
papers, or they work during regular banking hours, Pinela said.

To create a sense of trust, Bruce Lines, U.S. Bank vice president and Gravois
Plaza branch manager, started attending Hispanic festivals and cultural events.
Lines, who speaks Spanish, also joined the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and, to
recruit customers, started sending Spanish-speaking bank employees to companies
and businesses that employ many Hispanics.

To solve the identification problems, Lines contacted the Mexican Consulate in
Kansas City. That led the bank to allow the consulate to use office space in the
branch, meaning that it became a site where Mexican identity papers could be
issued.

Lines said his efforts are paying off. The Gravois Plaza office is becoming a
financial center for Hispanics, he said, with some customers driving from as far
away as Kentucky.

Initially, most new Hispanic immigrants are opening checking accounts. Lines
predicts that they subsequently will open savings accounts, obtain loans and
make other investments through the bank.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Patrick L. Thimangu:; E-mail: pthimangu@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8320

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - U.S. Bank
representative Eileen Wolfington (left) talks with Jose Morales of St. Charles
at the My Family Mexican Store in St. Ann. Wolfington says she wants to help her
ethnic group with banking needs, and she'll go places after work to further her
cause.

TYPE: PROFILE; U.S. BANK; GRAVOIS PLAZA

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              129 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 15, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION UNDERLIES GROWTH IN U.S. LABOR FORCE

BYLINE: Genaro C. Armas The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS ; Pg. G8

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A private study of Census data shows that new arrivals helped to fill openings
that required more education.

Immigrants accounted for more than half the growth in the nation's labor force
in the last decade, filling openings in factories, textile mills, restaurants
and other blue-collar industries, according to a new private analysis of
government data.

The immigrant influx was felt throughout the nation but was especially vital in
the Northeast, where new U.S. residents made up nearly all the net increase in
the labor force, according to the report, released this month by the Center for
Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.

The study of Census Bureau figures between 1990 and 2001 also found that recent
immigrants helped to fill openings that required more education, such as in
engineering firms and the high-tech industry.

"What immigration has really done is expand the base at the bottom and to a
lesser extent help" to fill openings near the top of the scale, said one of the
study's authors, Northeastern University economist Paul Harrington. "This is a
story of a long-term shift in the reliance of foreign sources for labor in the
United States."

The findings are in line with previously released Census Bureau data showing a
57 percent increase in the foreign-born population during the 1990s to about
31.1 million. During the same period, the Hispanic population grew to rival
blacks as the nation's largest minority group.

Between 1990 and 2001, the civilian labor force grew by nearly 16 million to
141.8 million. Half the growth was due to immigrants who entered during a period
of soaring economic growth for the nation.

New immigrants made up 79 percent of the increase in the male civilian labor
force, versus 30 percent of the increase among women.

Steven Camarota, a researcher with the Center for Immigration Studies, said the
report failed to note other effects of the immigration surge, such as increases
in school enrollment and on public-assistance rolls. Immigrant families tend to
have higher rates of poverty than families led by a U.S.-born resident.

Allowing immigrants to flood low-skilled jobs also might hold down wages because
more people are competing for jobs, said Camarota, whose group favors some
limits on immigration. "Where is the net benefit for natives? It's not clear."

Harrington said federal and state lawmakers must make more of an effort to
connect labor-market and immigration policy as immigrants become a more vital
source of economic growth.

What effect the terrorist attacks Sept. 11, 2001, had on immigrant trends in the
labor force is unclear, though the recession that started early in 2001 probably
did not have a widespread effect, Harrington said.

"This recession was more of a high-end recession in areas like high tech than
previous declines" he said. So, it had less of an effect on lower-skilled jobs.

The study put forth other findings, as well:

* More than 22 percent of immigrants who arrived since 1990 worked in service
occupations, compared with 19 percent of the total foreign-born population and
13 percent of native-born workers.

* Thirteen percent of recent immigrants worked on assembly lines or as machine
operators.

The report applied a wider definition of "immigrant" than the government
typically uses because it included arrivals from Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands and other U.S. territories, in addition to foreign countries.

Being in the "labor force" includes people who are working or unemployed but
actively seeking work.

===

On the Web

* Download the "Immigrant Workers and the Great American Job Machine" report at
www.nupr.neu.edu/12-02/ immigrationBRT.html

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              130 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 17, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

MONDAY WAS INS REGISTRATION DEADLINE;
 VISITORS FROM 5 MUSLIM NATIONS HAD TO REPORT; ABOUT 140 MEN IN AREA ARE
AFFECTED

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 576 words


Monday marked the deadline for about 3,000 visitors from five Muslim nations to
report to offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service across the
country to be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed.

The registration, which affects about 140 men in the St. Louis area, is part of
an effort by the government to better track visitors from foreign countries that
government officials say might pose a security threat.

Monday's deadline applied to men between the ages of 16 and 45 from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Syria and Sudan. The registration is aimed at nonimmigrant workers,
business travelers, students and others in the United States as temporary
visitors.

About 7,000 similar visitors from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea,
Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates and Yemen must register by Jan. 10. Other countries may be added to the
list as intelligence dictates.

Those who fail to register are subject to fines, imprisonment and deportation.

Some Islamic and other groups have criticized the new measures as ethnic
profiling, a misuse of anti-terrorism resources and a burden on some who may
have to travel long distances to register. One national Islamic civil rights
group on Monday called for an extension of the deadline.

"The government has done little to spread the word in the Muslim and
Arab-American communities about the requirement to register," Jason Erb of the
Council on American-Islamic Relations said in a statement.

"Many people may unwittingly place themselves in the position of being deported
merely because they lack information about the INS order."

Erb also expressed concern about reports that a number of those who complied
with the order have been detained based on visa technicalities. Some also
reported being asked inappropriate questions. He advised those who must register
to consult with an immigration attorney before the INS interview.

"This seems to be another in a series of dragnet policies that target
law-abiding visitors," Erb said. "These policies are an ineffective and
inefficient use of law enforcement."

A Justice Department spokesman could not be reached for comment. Department
officials have said the new National Security Entry-Exit Registr ation System is
needed to keep better track of the comings and goings of foreign visitors.

Three of the hijackers in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks last year overstayed
their visas and were living in the United States illegally.

The visitors must answer questions under oath before an immigration officer,
present travel documents and proof of where they are living, studying or
working. They also are fingerprinted and photographed.

The fingerprints, photos and interview details will be compared against
information contained in criminal, terrorism and immigration databases.

About 140 men registered in St. Louis, said Chester Moyer, who leads the
Immigration Service office here. Most brought letters from their schools. Others
received notices about the registration from their embassies or consulates, he
said.

"They're coming in very well-prepared, very cooperative," Moyer said. "We
haven't had even the slightest hint of an incident yet."

The Immigration Service will seek to track down any visitors who fail to
register.

"We're saying, 'Look, this is what you told us you were doing, this is what you
better be doing,'" Moyer said. "Otherwise, you're in violation."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              131 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   December 22, 2002 Sunday Five Star Edition

AMERICAN MUSLIMS AT CONVENTION DENOUNCE USA PATRIOT ACT;
 THEY SAY LAW VIOLATES RIGHTS, ALSO SEEK BROADER COVERAGE OF IRAQ CRISIS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, CALIF.


The USA Patriot Act passed in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks is the
biggest threat to democracy in the United States, Muslim leaders and activists
said Saturday.

The denunciation at a Muslim-American convention came days after vocal protests
were held over the detention of hundreds of Middle Eastern immigrants who
voluntarily registered with the Immigration and Naturalization Service under new
federal guidelines.

Speakers at the Muslim Public Affairs Council convention called on the public to
challenge the Patriot Act, which they called an unconstitutional law that
violates basic civil liberties.

They also urged the roughly 1,500 people attending the convention to demand that
the news media provide diverse perspectives on the potential war with Iraq to
complement the official government stand.

"The Patriot Act is the biggest attack on democracy in America right now,"
council board chairman Omar Ricci said in his opening speech at the two-day
annual conference.

The Patriot Act, approved in October last year, gave the government new powers
to obtain personal information about U.S. citizens and allows the government to
detain aliens deemed threats to national security and hold them without public
acknowledgment.

It also has given federal law enforcement agencies greater wiretap authority,
access to student and library records, and new Internet wiretap powers.

The U.S. Department of Justice did not immediately return a phone call Saturday
seeking comment.

Council board member Gasser Hathout compared the Patriot Act to the Sedition Act
of 1789, which made it illegal to criticize then-President John Adams. He said
civil liberties also came under attack in the 1950s from the House Un-American
Activities Committee and in the 1960s, when the FBI investigated civil rights
activists and Vietnam War opponents.

"I'm calling on people not to surrender their civil rights," Hathout said after
a morning panel discussion. "They are not mutually exclusive things, security or
civil rights."

Hathout said he had statistics showing that since the Patriot Act was approved,
the number of federal subpoenas of phone and Internet records has been doubling
every month and has reached into the thousands.

He also urged the audience not to be cowed into silence about the potential war
with Iraq or restrictions on their civil liberties.

Panelist Amy Goodman, a host of the national radio program "Democracy Now," said
the public can affect the news media's coverage of U.S.-Iraqi tension. She
recalled a Sally Jessy Raphael talk show episode that she participated in during
the Gulf War that was nearly canceled before callers urged the show's producer
to broadcast it.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              132 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 22, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. MUSLIM LEADERS DENOUNCE PATRIOT ACT;
 THEY SAY LAW VIOLATES RIGHTS, ALSO SEEK BROADER COVERAGE OF IRAQ CRISIS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, CALIF.


The USA Patriot Act passed in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks is the
biggest threat to democracy in the United States, Muslim leaders and activists
said Saturday.

The denunciation at a Muslim-American convention came days after protests over
the detention of hundreds of Middle Eastern immigrants who voluntarily
registered with the Immigration and Naturalization Service under new federal
guidelines.

Speakers at the Muslim Public Affairs Council convention called on the public to
challenge the Patriot Act, which they called an unconstitutional law that
violates basic civil liberties.

They also urged the roughly 1,500 people attending to demand that the news media
provide diverse perspectives on Iraq, to complement the official government
stand.

"The Patriot Act is the biggest attack on democracy in America right now,"
council board chairman Omar Ricci said in his opening speech at the two-day
annual conference.

The Patriot Act, approved in October last year, gives the government new powers
to get personal information about U.S. citizens and allows the government to
detain aliens deemed threats to national security and hold them in secret.

It also has given federal law enforcement agencies greater wiretap authority,
access to student and library records and new Internet wiretap powers.

Bryan Sierra, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department, defended the Patriot
Act as "an incredibly valuable tool in the war on terrorism."

"Ultimately, the question of civil liberties and what infringes on the
Constitution is a matter for the courts to decide," Sierra said in a telephone
interview from Washington. "But the ultimate goal here is liberty and safety and
the security of Americans."

Council board member Gasser Hathout compared the Patriot Act to the Alien and
Sedition Act of 1789, which made it illegal to criticize then-President John
Adams. He said civil liberties also came under attack in the 1950s from the
House Un-American Activities Committee and in the 1960s, when the FBI
investigated civil rights activists and Vietnam War opponents.

"I'm calling on people not to surrender their civil rights," Hathout said after
a panel discussion. "They are not mutually exclusive things, security or civil
rights."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              133 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 24, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

A WORD OR TWO ABOUT LITERACY

BYLINE: Jeri A. Levesque

SECTION: EDITORIAL ; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 421 words


THE GIFT OF GIVING

* Contributing time to help others learn to read is the best holiday present
anyone can give to the community.

Nearly 56 percent of St. Louis' students fail to earn high school diplomas. More
than a third of the state's school children score at the lowest level of the
Missouri Achievement Program. Children of color, children who are from homes
headed by adults who did not graduate from high school, and children of
immigrants who do not speak English at home, comprise the largest percentage of
those who lack basic literacy.

According to the St. Louis Adult Education and Literacy program, many in the new
wave of immigrants lack high school credentials. Women refugees may lack any
formal schooling. But we can help these immigrants learn to speak, read and
write English.

Newly released data from the 2000 census show that more than a quarter of a
million adults in Missouri do not speak English well. These workers hold the
greatest potential for bringing regional gains in productivity. Increasing their
abilities to read, write and do math can boost the economy. But the benefits for
the individual who is helped are more important. Literate people are less likely
to depend on public medical and welfare programs, are less likely to be a victim
or perpetrator of crime, and are less likely to have children who are trapped in
illiteracy's debilitating cycle.

Literacy leads to better lives, and tutoring is a thrifty educational strategy.
A 1999 study by the Literacy Volunteers of America found that every dollar
invested in tutoring returned $11.

Many organizations are working on the problem of poor literacy. Literacy service
providers from both sides of the Mississippi River have created the Literacy
Roundtable to share fund raising, to share research-based practices for tutor
training, and to expand service. Public libraries in St. Louis city and St.
Louis County, St. Charles and East St. Louis, have been recruiting literacy
volunteers since Sept. 24. LIFT-Missouri, the state's literacy resource center,
hosts a Literacy Volunteer Hotline (800-729-4443). Tutor volunteers and
prospective new readers are welcome.

If you don't have time to be a tutor, donations can help provide people with
transportation to the literacy service center, home study supplies, books and
child care while parents attend classes to improve their English speaking
proficiency, and basic literacy skills. As it does for corporations, enhanced
literacy pays big dividends for all of us.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY: A FORUM FOR OTHER VOICES, IDEAS AND OPINIONS; Jeri A.
Levesque is an associate professor at Webster University and is the director of
its Literacy Center.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo headshot - Jeri A. Levesque GRAPHIC GRAPHICS;
(2) KNIGHT RIDDER TRIBUNE Graphic/illustration - (Family holding books open,
with letters of the alphabet falling out from them)

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              134 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 29, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IRAQIS HERE DECRY BAN ON SENDING MONEY

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1159 words


An edict issued in 1990 by President George Bush makes Iraqis unique among
immigrants to the United States: They can't transfer funds back to family
members in their native country.

After many of his family members perished under Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's
brutal rule, Khalid Amen fled to Saudi Arabia and spent four years in a refugee
camp before coming to the United States in 1994.

Like millions of immigrants before him, Amen, a math professor at St. Louis
Community College at Forest Park, sent money back to remaining family members.
And he helped others do the same thing, his family and friends say.

For that reason, Amen's defenders claim, the 32-year-old Shiite Muslim and
naturalized U.S. citizen is in a Seattle jail awaiting trial on federal charges
that could send him to prison for up to 20 years.

Under a 1990 declaration by then-President George Bush, it is illegal to send
money to anyone in Iraq. That edict, issued after Iraq invaded Kuwait, makes
Iraqis unique among the nation's immigrants.

While the government bans or severely limits commerce with a number of
countries it deems anti-American -- North Korea, Cuba, Libya,    Iran andothers
- Iraq is the only country to which no money can be transferred to individuals
without a special federal license. For example, federal law allows up to $100
per month to be sent to a household in North Korea, a nation that otherwise
faces significant economic sanctions.

The effect of the law, which has been upheld by subsequent presidents, has been
to create an underground network used by Iraqis to channel money through Jordan
to relatives and friends in Iraq. Iraqis here say they send money through Jordan
because transferring money directly to Iraq would be dangerous to their
families, and cash could be seized by Saddam.

Amen's brother, Ihssan Alkhafaji, said Amen was merely doing what all other
immigrants have historically done and what nearly every other Iraqi in the
United States currently does.

"All Iraqis send to their family," he said. "If your son or daughter is in Iraq
and has no way to work, and you work and have money, would you send money? You
would fight to send money."

"How will they eat?"Hussein Al-Waeli, 33, a Shiite Muslim and naturalized U.S.
citizen, agrees. He knows it is illegal to send money to his six sisters in
Iraq, but without his help, "How will they eat?" he asked.

Hamed Alkareshi is a St. Louis friend who knew Amen in Iraq and stayed with him
in a refugee camp in Rafha, Saudi Arabia. He said he and Amen were unaware of
the law banning money transfers to their families. He pointed out that the law
was first enacted in 1990, before they arrived in St. Louis.

"He just came in 1994," said Alkareshi, who runs a paging and cellular phone
business. "How can he know that?"

The scope of Amen's money transfers, however, was significantly larger than that
of the average immigrant. He funneled more than $500,000 that he collected from
Iraqis in and around St. Louis through a Seattle-area company, Alshafei Family
Connect Inc. That company ultimately sent a total of $12.1 million to Iraq
through intermediaries in Jordan, federal officials said.

The owner of the company, Hussein Alshafei, was arrested and charged Dec. 19
along with Amen and 10 other men from various parts of the country who acted as
"agents" for the Seattle company, government officials said. Federal officials
say there is no sign that any of the money went to the Iraqi government or
terrorists.

Special rules for IraqThe indictment of Amen and the other men has focused
attention on the special rules for Iraq. While critics say the rules are unfair,
the federal government argues that the rules are in place because any money that
goes to Iraq eventually could end up in the hands of Saddam Hussein.

"That's why the U.S. government says, 'I want to look at each and every
individual transaction,'" explained Peter Fitzgerald, a professor of law at
Stetson University's College of Law in Florida. "The government's answer is that
if you've got a good reason, we'll give you a license."

But Fitzgerald and others say that the old policy of issuing sanctions against
countries, begun during World War II, is not necessarily effective and causes
damage to individuals who are not involved in the conflict.

They argue that instead of issuing sanctions against countries, the government
should target specific individuals, organizations and companies.

"That is less likely to cause collateral harm to individuals than a broad brush
that won't allow you to deal with anybody in that geography," Fitzgerald said.

Recently, the government has been going after such individuals and groups. The
Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control publishes a black list
that includes companies, charitable organizations and individuals, such as
terrorist Abu Nidal.

But Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Washington-based civil rights and advocacy
group Council on American-Islamic Relations, questions how the government's
economic sanctions are enforced.

"Of course, everybody has to obey the law, but there seems to be a lot of
selective enforcement going on lately," he said. "If someone else breaks the
law, there is a wink and a nod, but if there is a Muslim or Arab involved,
suddenly they're federal cases."

That complaint drew a vigorous denial Friday from Rob Nichols, deputy assistant
secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department, which enforces the government's bans
on commerce with foreign countries.

"That, of course, is hogwash," Nichols said. "The Treasury Department is
committed to fair and full enforcement of all of our embargo programs.

"The war on terrorism is a war on terrorists," he said. "It's a war on
extremists. It is not by any sense a war on Islam. It is a noble faith."

The rules, which began as a tool of foreign policy, have proved unwieldy and at
times ineffective as tools to hunt terrorists, said Fitzgerald, who argues the
rules need to be simplified and streamlined.

But Nichols insisted his agency is striving for completely fair enforcement of
the law.

At least one non-Arab group has felt the brunt of the department's enforcement
efforts.

In 1996, the department warned a Chicago peace group, Voices in the Wilderness,
that it could face up to $1 million in penalties for taking medicine to Iraq
without a permit. The group contends that international trade sanctions against
Iraq are causing thousands of children's deaths each year.

After the group continued to deliver medicine to Iraq, the department fined the
group $50,000 last month, said Kathy Kelly, a co-coordinator with the
organization who returned Thursday night from her 17th trip to Iraq.

"We deliberately violated the sanctions many times, and we will co ntinue to do
so," she said.

So far, the group, which contends the U.S. ban itself violates human rights, has
faced no criminal penalties.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle:; E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-621-5804

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color PHOTO by GABRIEL B. TAIT / POST-DISPATCH - Iraqi
immigrant Hamed Alkareshi runs a paging and cellular phone business in the St.
Louis area. He is among many Iraqis working here who send money home to family
members despite a 1990 declaration by then-President George Bush, upheld by
subsequent presidents, that made it illegal to send money to anyone in Iraq.;
(2) Photo by Gabriel B. Tait / Post-Dispatch - Hamed Alkareshi tries to make a
sale to James Morrow of St. Louis on Thursday at his store, BBC Communications.
While critics say the rules against sending money to Iraq are unfair, the
government argues that any money going to Iraq eventually could end up in the
hands of Saddam Hussein.; (3) Color Photo by Gabriel B. Tait / Post-Dispatch -
Iraqi immigrant Hamed Alkareshi hugs his 3-month-old daughter, Zainab, after
arriving at their St. Louis home on Thursday. Alkareshi's friend, Khalid Amen,
is awaiting trial in Seattle on federal charges that he funneled money to Iraq.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              135 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 1, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

WAR DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled From Wire Reports, With A Contribution From Karen Branch-Brioso
Of The Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau.

SECTION: NEWS ; War Digest Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 654 words


WASHINGTON

Airlines, ships must give passenger lists to INS

Starting today, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will know the names
of passengers on all international flights or cruises long before they clear
customs.

As part of an anti-terrorism measure, all commercial airlines and cruise and
cargo ships must e-mail their passenger and crew manifests to the agency before
landing or docking in U.S. territory. The advance notice applies to outbound
flights and cruises as well.

Since Oct. 1, many carriers have been providing the names as part of the
program's first phase. That phase applied to airlines and ships traveling to or
from the 28 countries in the U.S. visa-waiver program, which allows those
nations' citizens to visit the United States for 90 days without a visa. "This
rule would make it 100 percent mandatory," said an INS spokeswoman.

AFGHANISTAN

Pakistani scout wounded U.S. soldier, Army says

An American soldier who was wounded last weekend in Afghanistan was hit in an
exchange of shots with a Pakistani border patrol, the Army said Tuesday.

The shooting prompted the United States to drop a bomb on the area. A Pakistani
intelligence official said two U.S. bombs had fallen "accidentally" inside
Pakistani territory on Sunday.

The American was part of a unit conducting a routine mission with Pakistani
forces along the Afghan border when a disagreement broke out. A U.S. military
spokesman said a Pakistani border scout had opened fire "after the U.S. patrol
asked him to return to the Pakistan side of the border. That individual and
several others retreated to a nearby structure.

Close air support was requested and one 500-pound bomb was dropped."

Pakistan is a U.S. ally in the war on terrorism and says it has stationed 60,000
to 70,000 soldiers on the Afghan border to help track down remnants of al-Qaida
and the Taliban.

The U.S. armed forces said the incident happened near the Afghan village of
Shkin, which lies on the border with Pakistan.

WASHINGTON

15,000 troops will head from Georgia to Kuwait

The Army is sending more than 15,000 soldiers from the 3rd Infantry Division in
Georgia to Kuwait in the largest single ground deployment to the Persian Gulf
since the 1991 war, military officials said Tuesday.

One of the division's three combat brigades, about 5,000 soldiers, has been
training in the Kuwaiti desert since September, but the unit's headquarters at
Fort Stewart, Ga., received an order from the Army within the last day directing
the 1st and 3rd brigades to join the soldiers in Kuwait, officials said.

WASHINGTON

Carrier Abraham Lincoln will remain at sea

Navy officials said the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln will stay on deployment
instead of returning to its home port in Everett, Wash., next month as planned.

The nuclear-powered Lincoln and its battle group will remain deployed
indefinitely at sea, said Cmdr. Karen Sellers, a public affairs officer for the
Navy.

CRAWFORD, Texas

Bush says he ordered FBI to look for 5 foreigners

President George W. Bush said Tuesday that he personally had ordered the FBI to
begin a nationwide hunt for five men believed to have entered the country from
Canada on Christmas Eve.

Bush said U.S. authorities needed to know what the men were doing in the United
States.

"We are mindful that there are still some out there who would try to harm
America and harm Americans," Bush said, "and so therefore we take every threat
seriously, every piece of evidence seriously."

On Sunday, the FBI released photos, names and birth dates of the five and sought
the public's help in tracking them down. But bureau officials acknowledge they
are uncertain of the accuracy of the identities and ages.

The FBI says the five are of Middle Eastern origin. They may have fake
passports, because the information that led to the FBI bulletin came from an
investigation into an illegal passport scheme.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              136 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 5, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

HOLIDAY PARTY BRIGHTENS DAY FOR REFUGEE CHILDREN;
 INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE HERE HELPS MANY WHO HAVE FLED HOME COUNTRY

BYLINE: Rick Pierce Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. D9

LENGTH: 338 words


Refugee children gathered for a holiday party Saturday afternoon at the
International Institute in St. Louis.

They played musical chairs and other games, had their pictures taken with their
parents, were entertained by clowns and ate cookies and other treats. About 150
refugees attended.

"It's just so the kids can be kids," said Beth Radtke, a vice president at the
institute. "A lot of them have spent their lives in refugee camps."

Fouzia Formuli, a refugee from Afghanistan, brought five of her six children to
the party.

"I'm thankful for the institute," she said through an interpreter. "It makes me
very happy. My kids are having a really good time."

She has been in the United States just seven months. After fleeing her home
country, she lived for a short time in India and later Pakistan. She now works
in a clothing factory to support her children.

Few of the refugees speak English. Many are reluctant to talk about their
experiences.

Some, like Formuli, are Afghan women who have lost their husbands.

The institute, at 3654 South Grand Boulevard, provides everything from food and
clothing to English and GED classes for refugees, serving about 9,000 refugees
living in the St. Louis area.

Refugees make up a small percentage of the overall immigrant population. While
most immigrants have a sponsor who can help, refugees usually are fleeing
persecution in their home country and often arrive with little or no money.

Radtke estimated that as many as 35,000 Bosnian refugees had arrived in the St.
Louis area in the past 10 years. Afghans, now believed to number 15,000, make up
the second-largest group. Others have arrived recently from the Congo, Iran,
Sierra Leone, Uzbekistan and Vietnam.

Radtke said her work with the institute had taught her that most of the refugees
were eager for work, despite often harrowing experiences in their home country.

"Every day is a lesson in perspective," she said. "However bad my day is, it's
nothing compared to what these people have been through."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Rick Pierce:; E-mail: rpierce@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
618-659-3637

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              137 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 12, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

FEAR KEEPS MANY FROM IMMIGRANT REGISTRATION;
 TURNOUT IS LOWER THAN EXPECTED BY INS AFTER NEWS OF MASS ARRESTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1981 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Chris, as his American friends call him, meant to register in the first round of
the Justice Department's new national security registration system for foreign
visitors. The Iranian-born businessman who has lived 14 of his 39 years in the
United States, was on the freeway headed toward the immigration office on Dec.
16 when deadline-day reports rushed in on Farsi-language radio.

"Family members were calling the radio station, saying, 'My 16-year-old son went
in and never came out,'" Chris said in an interview, granted on the condition
his real name not be used. "There were people's families coming on the airwaves
giving pictures of mass arrests. There were people calling from detention
describing atrocious conditions. You were thinking, 'There's going to be mass
deportations. I'm not going to get a hearing.'"

The mass arrests -- about 550 in Southern Californian alone to date -- did not
lead to mass deportations. All but about 20 were released once their status was
sorted out by an immigration office overwhelmed and ill-prepared for the
hundreds who appeared for registration on the last day. But the damage was done.

Many, like Chris, opted to defy the deadline and face potential criminal
sanctions for not submitting to fingerprinting and photographing that day. And
on Friday -- the deadline to register for male visitors from 13 more nations --
the district immigration director said the response then, too, was lower than
expected.

"It is very slow," said Ronald Smith, Los Angeles district director for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "I don't know how much of that is fear."

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez said a total of 2,327 men showed up
for registration in Los Angeles over the course of the two registrations - but
said he did not know how many were expected. Nationwide, he said, 15,000 men had
registered, far more than the expected 10,200.

"That proves that this entry-exit registration system is closing some of the
loopholes and targeting some of the vulnerabilities," Martinez said. "Now we
have a better understanding of who is in our country."

But in Los Angeles, immigration lawyers, social workers and activists from the
Middle Eastern and North African communities say the early stumbles mean the
program is far less comprehensive than it could have been. Smith has been
meeting with many of those lawyers and activists, some on Friday, when he was
told that the less-than-expected turnout in Los Angeles was all about fear of
arrest.

Wafa Hoballah, a Lebanese-American lawyer, told Smith that entire communities of
Lebanese merchants in downtown Los Angeles were staying away. "You will see
plenty who have not registered," she said, later saying that easily half those
who are required to register will not do so. "They are afraid."

Hundreds are detained

The National Security Entry-Exit Registration program is an anti-terrorism tool
aimed at better tracking visitors: those who entered the country on business,
tourist and student visas, as did all of the men who carried out the Sept. 11
terrorist hijackings. But in many immigrant strongholds such as Los Angeles,
those visas expired years ago and their holders have stayed and made lives here,
living, working and raising families in some cases for decades.

The first round of registrations, which applied to male visitors age 16 and
older from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria, set off a firestorm after the INS
office arrested everyone with lapsed visas - even those with pending
applications for permanent legal status.

That's what happened to Abed Tabbaa, 38, who went downtown to register and spent
four nights in jail before he was released after he agreed to pay a $1,500 bond.
Tabbaa, a car dealer, came to the United States on a student visa 20 years ago.
His petition for permanent residency has languis hed in an INS warehouse for
years.

"They were arresting everybody that doesn't have a green card," Tabbaa said.
"They all have pending cases, but if you didn't have the green card in your
hands, you went to jail."

That, and many other things, changed with the second round and a fresh set of
guidelines from headquarters on Jan. 8, Smith said. For the most part, those
visitors who had family-based applications for legal status were not being
detained in the second round.

Nationwide on Friday, there were 150 "temporary detentions," Martinez said, and
seven were detained indefinitely because they had criminal records. That is a
striking difference from the earlier deadline day, when 500 people were detained
nationwide, 400 in Los Angeles alone.

Los Angeles district spokesman Francisco Arcaute said the office also prepared
itself better this time. "We have 18 computers instead of three; seven
fingerprint machines instead of three," he said. "We have 30 to 50 percent more
personnel and our staff has undergone a sensitivity training course."

Farah Ramchandani, an Iranian-American social worker, said the sensitivity is
particularly crucial to the program after reports from the first round. She said
registrants "went in there trusting, to comply with the law and to show that
they were not terrorists or have any kind of connection to any kind of
terrorism." But some told her that when they were taken, handcuffed, to holding
cells, they were greeted by guards who said: "Here come the next terrorists."

Attorney General John Ashcroft unveiled the program last year as an
anti-terrorism tool to track foreign visitors to the United States on business,
student and tourist visas. Ashcroft envisions the National Security Entry-Exit
Registration Program to include visitors from all countries by 2005, but in the
beginning, it has focused primarily on Muslim nations.

All of the nations in the first round have predominantly Muslim populations. So
do most of the second-round countries whose citizens had to register by Friday:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Morocco, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates and Yemen. Lebanon, Oman and Eritrea are nations of mixed religions,
including Muslims. North Korea is the only non-Muslim nation included in the
registration requirement.

Come Monday, the third phase of registrations begin for male visitors from two
more Muslim nations: Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

Lawsuit is filed

Ron Wakabayashi, the regional director of community relations for the Justice
Department's Western region, suspects the next round will be a crucial one for
the program. He said that the INS estimated there were 3,000 and 7,200 visitors
subjected to the first two rounds, respectively, but visitors from Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia number an estimated 20,000 nationwide.

Immigrant-rich Southern California, however, may relinquish its role as the
scene of scrutiny in the next round, which faces a Feb. 21 deadline. The Los
Angeles area has the nation's largest populations of Iranian-born and
Syrian-born residents as well as the largest Lebanese-born population. But
Census estimates show that the largest concentration of Pakistanis in the nation
is in the New York City area.

Still, Wakabayashi doesn't expect New York to face the detention dilemma that
Southern California did for one simple reason: "L.A.'s got detention facilities;
New York doesn't."

The first round of registration led to a confusing array of policies. While Los
Angeles arrested most anyone with a lapsed visa, many district offices only
arrested those whose names produced a hit in criminal databases - or who had no
paperwork pending at all.

The distinctions prompted a lawsuit by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee, the Council on Islamic Relations as well as Iranian and Pakistani
activist groups. They asked a federal judge for a temporary restraining order to
halt detentions of those registrants who had pending applications to become
permanent residents - but U.S. District Judge Alicemarie Stotler turned them
down Thursday.

Stotler agreed with Justice Department lawyers who argued that immigration
officials have broad discretion to enforce immigration law and the registration
program. INS officials now answer to Ashcroft, who crafted the registration
program, but jurisdiction will soon switch to the Homeland Security Department.

Come March 1, when INS is abolished and its enforcement and service functions
move into separate agencies at the new department, Homeland Security Director
Tom Ridge will have the ultimate word over the immigration and registration
programs.

Lead attorney Peter Schey said he plans an appeal.

"Our challenge is absolutely not a broadside at the attorney general's
registration program," Schey said. "Our clients have a powerful interest in it
being an effective program . . . in the war on terrorism. . . . Los Angeles'
district policy (of arrests) has done more to undermine the effectiveness of the
program than any of its opponents could ever do."

Schey's argument is that as a result of Los Angeles' original policy, many of
the would-be registrants just won't show up. The ultimate penalty for failure to
register is deportation; but many fear that showing up to register in Los
Angeles would only speed up that process. Indeed, one of the plaintiffs in
Schey's lawsuit - John Doe 1 - was already deported last week and an added
penalty of deportation means he can't return for at least a decade to the United
States, where his mother lives.

Legal limbo

That's why one Pakistani man, who spoke to the Post-Dispatch on condition of
anonymity, doesn't know whether he will register or not in the next round. The
26-year-old computer technician manager came as a tourist eight years ago, then
legally converted to a student visa and earned bachelor's and master's degrees.
Then he legally switched to a temporary worker visa - but was laid off of his
job last year.

"I have a lot of family here; I have nobody back in Pakistan," the man said.
"I'm the only one in my family who's not even a resident. The rest of my family
is either a resident or a citizen. The funny thing is, even the lawyers are not
sure what I should do. They're all giving me different kinds of advice. I don't
know what I'm going to do."

The same is true for Chris, who is in a legal limbo since he decided not to
register on Dec. 16. Instead, he turned his car around and went to his lawyer's
office to assign power of attorney to his wife and father - who, like his mother
and sister - are all legal residents or citizens of the United States. That way,
the mortgages on his two homes or his business will not be left in limbo if at
any time he is found and deported, he said.

Community activists meeting Friday with Smith, the Los Angeles INS district
director, begged him to seek an amnesty or deadline extension for those like
Chris, who want to come forward but who fear the consequences. The Justice
Department rules allow late registrants to come forward without penalty if they
can prove they didn't know they had to register - but there is no special
allowance for those in Los Angeles who stayed away at the sight of mass arrests.

"The feeling that we get is fear is not an acceptable reason for failing to
register," Smith told the activists but said that the district had forwarded a
request to the Justice Department asking for a possible extension to the already
lapsed deadlines or an amnesty for those who failed to register on time. "The
department is considering, hopefully, all these options."

Without such assurances, Chris said: "It means that any minute, in some way,
fashion or form, I could be put in that (deportation) process. I can only hope
that the process will be reviewed. Essentially, what this has done is to take
thousands of people, kick them out of the system, running them underground. I
think I'm not a minority. I think there are many, many people like me, who are
waiting to show they are not a threat."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: * Note: A shorter version of this report ran in the FIVE STAR LIFT, page
A4.; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Photo - Volunteers acting as human
rights monitors listen to a briefing outside the Immigration and Naturalization
Service building in Los Angeles on Friday, during the second round of
registrations of immigrants required under a new anti-terrorism law. The
deadline for the next phase is Feb. 21.; (2) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo -
Activist Edith Penante, a Muslim from El Salvador, joins a protest outside the
Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in Los Angeles on Friday. The
required registration of men from other countries, an anti-terrorism measure,
has prompted a civil rights lawsuit. (* Note: This was the photo for the FIVE
STAR LIFT, page A4.)

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              138 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 16, 2003 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

MALE VISITORS TO U.S. WILL GET ANOTHER CHANCE TO REGISTER

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft will give male visitors from 18 nations another
chance to register in an anti-terrorism program without penalty, according to a
draft of the notice that is to be published today.

Ashcroft unveiled the program last year to better track foreign visitors in the
United States after the terrorist attacks in 2001. The program requires men from
certain countries to appear at immigration offices to be fingerprinted,
photographed and questioned about their activities while in the United States.
Those who fail to register face criminal sanctions and deportation.

But the notice acknowledges that many from the first two groups of countries may
have been unaware of the requirement and the deadlines. The deadline to register
for male visitors 16 and over from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria was Dec.
16.

And Jan. 10 was the deadline for male visitors from Afghanistan, Algeria,
Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia,
United Arab Emirates and Yemen. These two groups will be allowed to register at
immigration offices between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7.

"As an act of grace, and as an act that is entirely within the attorney
general's discretion, the attorney general has decided to permit those
individuals who were required to register under the Groups I and II notices but
who did not do so an additional opportunity to register and provide information
in a timely fashion," reads the notice, which will be published today in the
Federal Register.

The registration applies to temporary visitors who are in the country on
student, tourist, business or temporary visas. It doesn't apply to those with
permanent residency status or diplomats from those nations.

The order said that subsequent groups will not be granted an extension. Men from
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are now being asked to register by Feb. 21.

In a separate notice today, Ashcroft also will create a fourth group for those
from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait. Male visitors over 16 from
those nations who arrived in the United States before Sept. 30 and who intend to
be in the country after March 28 also will have to register. They may appear at
immigration offices between Feb. 24 and March 28.

Crystal Williams of the American Immigration Lawyers Association said the
two-week grace period for the first two groups falls short because the Justice
Department has not adequately publicized the registration.

"It's not enough in terms of time. Not enough in terms of outreach to the
affected communities."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              139 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 31, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

INS EXTENDS DEADLINE FOR FOREIGN STUDENT TRACKING;
 COLLEGES GET 15 MORE DAYS AFTER REPORTING PROBLEMS IMPLEMENTING DATABASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Immigration and Naturalization Service gave the nation's colleges and
universities an extra 15 days to begin feeding information about their foreign
students into a new Internet database.

The immigration agency said the new Feb. 15 deadline would let schools make sure
their computers could link to INS equipment.

The INS had set a Thursday deadline for about 3,000 schools to be ready to start
supplying data to the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, which is
meant to replace the paper-based system the INS has used for years to track
foreign students.

Some colleges complained that the system was cumbersome or not responding
properly.

"There were certainly indications there were problems that were cropping up,"
INS spokesman Chris Bentley said. "This is a way to afford those schools two
more weeks to work through those issues."

The INS has had a mandate to set up a computerized system since 1996. But the
long-delayed project was accelerated after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. One
of the hijackers had entered the United States on a student visa.

Schools must provide information on the academic, personal and financial status
of foreign-born students and their dependents. Colleges must also provide data
on any disciplinary action, off-campus employment and whether the student has
dropped below a full course of study.

About 583,000 foreign students were enrolled at U.S. colleges and universities
in 2001-02, according to the Institute of International Education.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              140 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   February 2, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

2 INS WORKERS ARE ACCUSED OF DESTROYING THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, CALIF.


A federal grand jury has indicted two workers at an Immigration and
Naturalization Service office on charges that they destroyed tens of thousands
of documents to eliminate a backlog of paperwork.

The shredded documents - as many as 90,000 - included applications for asylum,
citizenship, visas and work permits, and supporting documents such as U.S. and
foreign passports and birth and marriage certificates, the indictment says.

Dawn Randall, 24, and Leonel Salazar, 34, were each charged with one cou nt of
conspiracy and five counts of willfully destroying the documents, which had been
sent to the INS' California Service Center in Laguna Niguel.

The data processing center handles paperwork received from people in Arizona,
California, Nevada, Hawaii and Guam.

The indictment Wednesday alleges that Randall, a file room manager, ordered
Salazar, a supervisor, and others to shred unprocessed documents last February
after the backlog reached about 90,000.

The indictment also says Randall told Salazar and others to shred the documents
on the evening shift to avoid detection by other workers.

A month later, the backlog was reported at zero. Federal prosecutors said
Randall and Salazar continued shredding incoming documents to hold down the
backlog until INS officials discovered the activity on April 4.

The other workers were not charged because they were lower level workers acting
on instructions, prosecutors said.

The INS was confident it had rebuilt most of the lost files, INS spokeswoman
Lori Haley said.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              141 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             February 13, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

ONE THING MISSING

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 501 words


* Nail Kudic's life is NEARLY PERFECT. The Bosnian refugee has a JOB HE LIKES
and has settled into a COUNTRY HE LOVES. Unfortunately, there's just ... ONE
THING MISSING.

Mirela Kudic, Nail Kudic's wife, is still living in Bosnia, waiting for
immigrant status. The couple were married eight months ago in Bosnia.

When your bride is half a world away, Valentine's Day can be a lonely time.

And when you don't know when you will see her next, it's even sadder.

Nail Kudic, 31, a Bosnian refugee, lives in an apartment on Telegraph Road in
south St. Louis County. He is a success story, having found a steady and
productive job as a counselor and substitute teacher at the Hancock Place middle
and high schools, where he helps young Bosnians adjust to America.

But his wife of just eight months, Mirela Kudic, 27, still lives in northwestern
Bosnia and must stay until she is granted immigrant status.

"It is very hard to be separated from somebody you love and you care about,"
Nail Kudic said. "She would be the major part of my life."

They aren't sure when they will be able to build a life in this country, but for
this couple, living anywhere else is not an option.

On March 10, Kudic will take a naturalization examination covering U.S.
government and English. His chances of passing are good, and if he does, the
next step is citizenship.

No one can say exactly how long it will take to get his wife here. Without
citizenship, it could be as long as five years. But when Kudic becomes a
citizen, the wait will narrow to a year at most, said Angie O'Gorman, director
of the Immigration Law Project Legal Services of Eastern Missouri.

At present, Kudic is considered a permanent resident of the United States, which
means he can live in and work in this country. He can do everything but vote --
something he's looking forward to.

"A month or two after I pass the test, I will pledge allegiance in front of the
judge and be a full citizen," he said with pride. "I will be able to vote for
anyone I want."

The two were high school sweethearts in the city of Velika Kladusa. For years
after he came to America, Kudic wooed Mirela through letters and phone calls.
She was afraid of a new country, but finally she said yes to marriage. His
status as a permanent resident allowed him to travel to Velika Kladusa last year
just long enough for a traditional wedding.

Kudic is a slender, athletic, even-tempered man. He shows people Mirela's
picture. She is fine-featured, sweet-faced, with a mane of curly blond hair.

Kudic sees her as a tie to his old culture, but they also plan to learn the ways
of a new land together. "I will help her learn English," he said.

Their dreams are in place. He will continue helping others to become successful
in the new country. She will pursue a dental degree; she is a dental assistant
now. Someday there will be a house. Someday there will be a family.

"It's a long wait for her to come here," Kudic said. "Definitely, I will pass
the test."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - Nail Kudic hands out
study sheets to a literature class at Hancock Place High School in south St.
Louis County. Kudic helps Bosnian students with their English and helps them if
they don't understand something a teacher says in class.; (2) Photo headshot -
(Mirela Kudic) (* Note: The caption for the ILLINOIS editions, page B1, was:
Mirela Kudic (above) has been married to Nail Kudic for eight months.)

TYPE: PROFILE; NAIL KUDIC; BOSNIAN IMMIGRANT

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              142 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            February 26, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

12 ARE KILLED AS STORM HITS ARKANSAS, TEXAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, ARK.


A fast-moving winter storm churned across the South on Tuesday, dumping 13
inches of snow in Arkansas and leaving at least 12 people dead as a glaze of ice
wreaked havoc on highways.

More nasty weather was on the way for the region, meteorologists warned.

Authorities said at least nine people died in weather-related traffic accidents
in Texas and Arkansas, and three immigrants died of hypothermia in Texas.

Ice in northern and central Texas sent cars spinning and grounded planes. A
series of collisions snarled traffic on Interstate 20 near Dallas; several
18-wheelers were jackknifed, said Department of Public Safety Sr. Cpl. Robert
White.

In southern Texas, where temperatures struggled to reach the mid-30s, three
undocumented immigrants were found dead Tuesday after fellow immigrants sought
help from border patrol agents.

In Arkansas, some motorists were trapped in their vehicles for 10 hours on
slippery Interstate 40 after a truck jackknifed outside Little Rock.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: * Note: The FIVE STAR LIFT noted that ". . . three immigrants died of
hypothermia in South Texas."

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              143 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 2, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

CALL OF THE COUNTY

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe And Joan Little Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1334 words


* Some Bosnian immigrants here head south seeking safer streets and better
schools. But one just longed for a place to play his drums.

He dreamed of a big basement. She longed for a garage. Those are the amenities
that persuaded the two young Bosnian refugees to move to south St. Louis County.

"We never looked in the city," said Bjanka Nusinovic, 27, even though she and
her husband, Sandi, 29, work in the city and had owned a small home there.

The Nusinovics are among a growing number of Bosnians who are leaving the city
for the suburbs.

The trend is evident in the enrollments of school districts in South County. In
three districts -- Bayless, Hancock Place and Lindbergh -- the number of Bosnian
students has grown to 432 from just 46 five years ago. Meanwhile, the number in
St. Louis city schools has grown too, but more slowly, to 1,274 from 1,099 five
years ago.

In the Bayless district, one student in five is Bosnian. In the Hancock Place
district, the number has grown from six Bosnian students five years ago to 98
now. In all, about 900 Bosnian students are enrolled in the five school
districts of south St. Louis County, which includes Affton and Mehlville.

The trend also can be seen at the grocery. Shop 'n Save has added Bosnian foods
to two stores in South County and is considering doing so at a store in
Shrewsbury.

"There's no doubt - more and more Bosnians are moving to the county," says Ron
Klutho, co-director of the Refugee Support Program at St. Pius V Catholic Church
on Grand Boulevard.

The main reason Bosnians give for leaving the city is better schools. But they
give other reasons too, including roomier homes and yards, newer houses, safer
streets, and a desire to live closer to their jobs. Some of the reasons are
idiosyncratic: One Bosnian wanted a basement for his drum set, and in another
case, children pressured their parents to move closer to friends.

Home prices in parts of the county are nearly the same or lower than in the
city, which makes the decision easier, Bosnians say.

Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis, says Bosnians tend to have higher-paying starting jobs than other
refugees because of the education and work skills they bring with them. That
speeds up assimilation, which can take other groups eight to 10 years, she said.

"Bosnians are able to do it earlier because they have jobs that provide them
with income to make county living more affordable," says Crosslin.

Those who work with Bosnians say that up to 30,000 live in the St. Louis area.
It started as a trickle in February 1993, when a couple of hundred arrived. The
largest numbers came from 1996 to 1998, and it's been slowing since. Bosnians
first came as refugees from the war in Bosnia, but today most come from other
parts of the United States after hearing that St. Louis has jobs and affordable
housing.

The 2000 census reported 1,725 Bosnians living in the county, and 4,875 Bosnians
in the city. Crosslin says those numbers were greatly underreported because of
the way the census form was written and interpreted. Officials in St. Louis
County don't know how many Bosnians now live in the county.

St. Louis city officials said that while they are concerned about population
loss in general, the Bosnians are merely following a well-trodden path of
immigrants before them.

Jasna Mruckovski, a Bosnian who is a real estate agent and a bank executive,
said that five years ago, 70 percent of her home sales were in the city and 30
percent were in the county. Today, it's closer to 50-50.

She and her husband, Darko, recently moved from the city and bought a home in
Green Park in South County. It's a frame house with a brick front and a
three-car garage.

"Most Bosnians prefer (all) brick, but that didn't bother me," said Darko
Mruckovski, 33, who also sells real estate. In Bosnia, most homes are brick. The
couple said they wanted a newer house with less upkeep.

The International Institute has a home-buying program for immigrants; most of
the participants are Bosnian. Of the last 31 homes purchased in the program, 70
percent have been in the county, Crosslin says.

Learning to cope

Schools in South County are adding teachers and aides to cope with growing
numbers of Bosnian students. Some banks in the county are hiring Bosnian
employees to work with Bosnian customers.

"The (Bosnian) traffic in our lobby certainly has become more significant," says
Gary Ellis, senior vice president for Southern Commercial Bank, which opened a
branch at Lindbergh Boulevard and Union Road two years ago. Ellis said the bank
transferred two of its Bosnian employees to the branch to work with Bosnian
customers.

In January, the Bayless School District started its first night English class
for parents of Bosnian students. The free, twice-weekly class, taught by St.
Louis Community College, draws nearly 50 people.

Shop 'n Save's Bosnian food sections have been a success, both at the county
stores and at two stores in the city where it introduced Bosnian food in the
past year.

"It's been a gold mine," said John Banocy, a buyer for Shop 'n Save. The biggest
seller is a chocolate-covered, banana-flavored candy called Banako.

Some Bosnian businesses are following their customers to the county. Alem Boric,
owner of Europa Market, which sells Bosnian foods, candies and other items from
Bosnia, opened a store in 1999 at 4041 Union Road. Boric says his customers at
his first store, on Gravois Avenue in the city, told him they weren't coming in
as much because they were now living in the county.

A little more room

Rusmir Salic moved from an apartment on Chippewa Street to a house in the Indian
Hills subdivision off Weber Road in South County. He says he did so because he
wanted a better life.

"I wanted a better future for my kids, a better school, a better nei ghborhood
for me," he said. He found a brick-and-frame, three-bedroom home that has more
room for his family, which includes a son and a daughter.

"I need freedom to sit in the back yard," says Salic, who learned English while
watching movies back home in Croatia. "I needed a little more room."

The vast majority of Bosnians in the St. Louis area still live in the city.
Older Bosnians tend to stay in the city because they enjoy having shopping,
restaurants and neighbors within walking distance, says Darko Mruckovski, the
real estate agent. Some have moved to the county and then returned to the city
because they missed the sense of community, like they had in their homeland.

James Shrewsbury, president of the St. Louis Board of Aldermen, says that the
city is concerned about population loss but that the concern is not targeted at
Bosnians.

"I don't see any mass exodus," says Shrewsbury. "I just think they're leaving
the city for the same reasons that everyone else leaves the city, whether it be
public schools or crime" or other reasons.

Dionne Garrett-Castor, a spokesman for St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay, says the
Bosnian move to the county is a natural progression. "It's people moving on -
people finding employment in other areas, people who want to be closer to family
members," she said. "But there is still a substantial Bosnian community staying
in St. Louis."

The Irish came to New York and stayed for a while before spreading across the
country, notes St. Louis Alderman Dan Kirner, D-25th Ward.

"It's not unusual that people will move to different locations," Kirner says. "I
don't think it's a reflection of where they're moving from or to."

In buying their home on Southview Lane off Hawkins Fuchs Road, the Nusinovics
got a basement in which Sandi can play his drums. In their city home, his
drumming irritated everyone, he says. And Bjanka no longer has to park the car a
block away in bad weather.

Although they live in a home that looks like a magazine layout, some problems
remain. When Sandi drums, Bjanka closes the basement door.

"I just pretend I don't hear him," she says.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Joan Little:; E-mail: jlittle@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-849-1531

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo by J.B. Forbes - Post-Dispatch - Mirsada
Kameric gets help from her daughter, Amina, 7, at an evening English class at
Bayless Junior High School on Thursday. In January, the district started its
first night English class, which is free, for parents of Bosnian students. Many
Bosnian refugees in the area are deciding to make South County their home.
GRAPHIC (GRAPHICS); (2) Post-Dispatch Graphic / Chart - Bosnian students in
south St. Louis County schools - The five public school districts in South
County have seen a big increase in Bosnian students in the past five years,
demonstrating how Bosnians have been moving form St. Louis into the county.;
Key: Percent of Bosnian students in student population; Number of Bosnian
students five years ago; Number of Bosnian students today;
AFFTON         238   9%;BAYLESS        285 19%;HANCOCK PLACE 98 6%;
LINDBERGH       49   1%;MEHLVILLE      200  1%;*Figures from five years ago
unavailable ** Figures from five years ago unavailable. Current number
represents Bosnian students who are part of district's English as a Second
Language program, but not all Bosnian students.; Source: Individual school
districts

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              144 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 2, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

ADVOCATES WORRY AGENCIES WILL TARGET, NOT SERVE, IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1931 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


NEWS: The Immigration and Naturalization Service officially disbands this
weekend, and its duties will be split among three separate agencies.

IMPACT: The goal in part is to help beef up homeland security. While officials
say that little will change for those who seek the agencies' services, some
critics worry that the agencies' directors may adopt a more prosecutorial tack.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, one of the federal government's most
beleaguered agencies, will be gone Saturday night.

It will happened at midnight Saturday, when the INS officially dissolves and is
splintered into three separate agencies in the new Department of Homeland
Security. Redefining the roles of the nearly 40,000 INS employees -- including
Border Patrol agents, immigration inspectors, deportation and detention
officers, adjudicators and asylum specialists -- is still very much in progress.

"We are still working in getting in the trenches of the structure, but people
are not going to be disrupted with that," said Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman
for the defunct agency. "Phone numbers will remain the same. The apparent
differences that customers will see Monday are really none. We're still the same
people. We're still in the same buildings."

But make no mistake. Immigration services and enforcement in this country are
facing a tremendous overhaul in the transition from Justice Department to
Homeland Security. Long plagued by backlogs in citizenship and residency
applications, and blamed for its inability to stop illegal immigration or to
track foreign visitors to the United States, INS faced even more criticism in
the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The result: President George W. Bush decided to move the entire operation to a
new department charged with protecting the homeland. Now, three of the four men
charged with overseeing immigration were once federalprosecutors.

That switch has some immigration advocates fearing that the "keep-them-out" side
of the old INS will take precedence over the services side that welcomes foreign
students and visitors - and processes applications for citizens-to-be, for
permanent U.S. residents and for those seeking asylum.

"The backlog at INS to get your wife or child into the country legally is beyond
belief already," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration
Forum, an immigration advocacy group in Washington.

"Add to this a major restructuring, the disruption of establishing new
procedures and chains of authority, and the incredible lack of money and
manpower in the system, and we are likely to see a further erosion of the
immigration services side of our immigration system."

Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County executive who led the INS from 1989 to
1993, believes the changes are overdue - and will ultimately improve security
and service.

"It's going to take a while. There may be some problems, just because it's such
a mammoth undertaking," said McNary, who attended a changing-of-the-guard
ceremony Thursday at INS headquarters in Washington. "But I think it's been a
long time coming and we're going to see a more effective system."

McNary had long complained that the INS was a "stepchild" in the Justice
Department, where higher-profile agencies like the FBI regularly came first in
budget tussles. He had advocated that the INS become an independent federal
agency. But McNary believes that immigration services will get its due in the
reorganization - even in an agency whose entire being is based on protecting the
homeland.

"I think that service side of it is going to be better financed," McNary said,
noting that the fees meant for services like citizenship, residency and visa
applications had often been diverted in the past to other areas.

"The service side is almost self-sustaining, if Congress would keep its grubby
mitts off of the funds. . . . There also needs to be a moratorium by Congress on
new (immigration) regulations. We need to repeal regulations, simplify the law,
of they just ought to leave it alone and not add any more provisions."

"Seamless and smooth"

For now, at least, "change" is a naughty word for those heading the transition.
Acting INS Director Michael Garcia issued statements last week to ease any fear
that immigration applications would be put into chaos.

"Yes, the INS technically ceases to exist . . . but we are committed to making
this transition as seamless and smooth as possible for those we serve," Garcia
said.

Examples of what will be staying the same:

* Immigration forms and documents - and the addresses on them - are still valid.

* Local INS offices - including the St. Louis office on the first floor of the
Robert A Young Federal Building at 1222 Spruce Street - will stay put.

* The National Customer Service Call Center numbers will be the same:
1-800-375-5283 and 1-800-767-1833 for the hearing- impaired.

The only palpable changes for customers right away will be the Web site for
citizenship and immigration services - www.immigration.gov (instead of
www.ins.gov) - and the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services banners
that will be unfurled at immigration service centers nationwide.

On Saturday, Cynthia O'Connell became acting director for Interior Enforcement
in the district office in Chicago. She said Illinois customers won't notice much
"other than the way we have to answer our phone on Monday. Some of our
higher-level titles will change, but not very far below me, titles won't change
for a while."

The agency's employees, however, say change is already afoot. A number of
administrative jobs have been eliminated. Several of the directors of the INS'
33 nationwide districts are retiring, including Michael Heston, director of the
office in Kansas City that oversaw the agency in Missouri and Kansas; and Brian
Perryman, director of the INS District Office in Ch icago - serving Illinois,
Indiana and Wisconsin.

Among the unknowns are the positions of officers-in-charge such as Chester Moyer
of the St. Louis sub-office. Moyer has overseen the gamut of immigration
functions - from deportations and detentions to green card applications and
citizen swearing-in ceremonies - and Homeland Security hasn't decided which of
the three agencies will be his new home.

Moyer said he has met with St. Louis immigration lawyers and groups that work
with refugees like the International Institute to ease the transition for them.
"We've explained to them there's just no change from their standpoint," he said.
"They don't have to be concerned with whatever the office is called or whatever
changes there are internally."

Border Patrol uncertainty

T.J. Bonner is the president of the National Border Patrol Council, a union that
represents most of the nation's 10,000 border patrol agents. He said uncertainty
about their future has led to a nearly 20 percent turnover rate among agents in
the last year and the loss of many experienced agents.

"Right now our work force is extremely young, experience-wise," he said. "The
average seniority is three to four years."

Bonner bemoaned the lack of contact by Homeland Security officials as they've
prepared for the transition: "Really, we don't know what to expect."

That may change as soon as this week. On Tuesday, Bonner and representatives
from the National INS Council - a union representing about 16,000 other
employees from the old INS - will meet with their members' new bosses at
Homeland Security.

Topping the union representatives' list of questions will be details on workers'
rights, which could be weaker in the new department. In the law that created the
department, President Bush secured greater power to hire, fire and promote
employees in the Homeland Security department than civil service rules allow in
other federal agencies. He also has the right to waive collective bargaining
rights when national security is at stake.

Charles Showalter, a vice president of the National INS Council, said new
training for agents will also be discussed. The new Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection, for example, will bring together the maze of agencies that
scrutinize people and goods that cross U.S. borders. Instead of Customs
inspectors focusing on contraband and INS inspectors focusing on entry documents
and agricultural inspectors focusing on illegal produce, each inspector will
eventually have the ability to handle all three responsibilities.

"If anything, it's going to force us to go back to school some," Showalter said.
"It's not anything we can't work through. The unions have expressed their utmost
desire to work with management and get the program in place in a rapid manner
that is going to protect the American people."

* * * * * *

THE NEW IMMIGRATION CHIEFS

ASA HUTCHINSON

This former Arkansas U.S. attorney and congressman just left his two-year
appointment as Drug Enforcement Administration chief to become Homeland
Security's Undersecretary for Border and Transportation Security. He is the top
immigration enforcement official in the department - and one of five division
chiefs under Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge. Hutchinson will oversee the
department's largest agency, with 100,000 employees, including those scooped
from the enforcement side of the old INS - such as Border Patrol agents and
immigration inspectors - border-security agents from Customs and Animal and
Plant Health inspectors.

EDUARDO AGUIRRE

The agency's service duties - providing work permits, reuniting families and
naturalizing immigrants - will be run by Aguirre, a Houston banker. President
Bush tapped the longtime Bank of America executive to be first vice president of
the Export-Import Bank in 2001. Recently he received the nod to be acting
director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. Unlike the other
former INS functions in the Homeland Security Department, it is a freestanding
bureau. It reports only to the Deputy Secretary Gordon England, the former
secretary of the Navy. The agency will have 15,000 employees and contractors
handling INS' former service functions, including asylum claims and adjustments
in student, work and tourist visas.

ROBERT BONNER

A former California U.S. attorney, federal judge and DEA administrator in the
first Bush administration, Bonner has been the current Bush administrations
Customs Commissioner. His latest appointment will move him out of the Treasury
Department and into Homeland Security as chief of the Bureau of Customs and
Border Protection. He'll report to Hutchinson. The bureau will have about 30,000
employees to create a unified force of inspectors of people and goods moving
across borders and other U.S. ports of entry. This bureau also will be the new
home of the nation's 10,000 Border Patrol agents.

MICHAEL GARCIA

A former prosecutor with the Southern District of New York, Garcia successfully
prosecuted four defendants in the bombings of the U.S. embassy in Kenya. His job
will be running the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. He, too, will
report to Hutchinson. Garcia became Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export
Enforcement in August 2001. Then in November, President Bush tapped him to be
Acting Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner in its final months.
The immigration bureau work force, about 14,000 strong, will focus on interior
enforcement of immigration and Customs laws except for the ports of entry. This
is the new home to former INS intelligence officials and investigators who
focused on detention and deportation.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE END OF THE INS; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso of
the Post-Dispatch's Washington bureau covers the Justice Department and national
political issues.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              145 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 10, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS REACH HIGH MARK, DESPITE SLOWDOWN;
 POOR ECONOMY, FALLOUT FROM TERRORISM MAY HAVE SLOWED NEWCOMER RATE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. foreign-born population has reached a record high, although the rate at
which people come to America has slowed considerably, the government reports.

Experts suggest that the rate has slowed because of the faltering economy and
fallout from the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

Census Bureau estimates being released today show there were about 32.5 million
foreign-born residents in the United States in March last year, 2 percent more
than the 31.8 million in March 2001.

The growth rate had been three times greater between March 2000 and 2001.

About 1.2 million people arrived in the country in the 12 months ending in March
last year, compared with 2.4 million the previous year, according to William
Frey, a demographer who analyzed the figures.

Besides new arrivals, the estimates also account for deaths and those who left
the United States.

The government worked to close immigration loopholes and provide closer scrutiny
of those admitted to the country after the Sept. 11 attacks. That, coupled with
a slowing economy, may have caused some would-be immigrants to stay home, said
Frey, who works at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank.

But Frey and other experts said other factors also played a role. For instance,
immigration officials in 2001 reduced a years-long backlog in visa applications,
which could have led to an artificially high number of new immigrants, said
Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group.

Ample evidence for a decline exists, but it is likely a temporary blip, said
Steven Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies. For
many immigrants, concern over the recession and crackdowns pales compared with
the desire to seek a better life in America.

"You would have to change policy and begin a vigorous enforcement effort across
the board in order to reduce immigration," said Camarota, whose group favors
more curbs on immigration.

Such groups as the National Immigration Forum counter that some enforcement
efforts have unfairly targeted innocent immigrants, especially those of Middle
Eastern descent. Arab-American groups have alleged that prejudice against Arabs
and Muslims rose after the attacks.

California long has been considered a bellwether for immigration trends.
Although no state data was available from the latest census report, typically
the flow of migrant workers in and out of the state slows when the economy
falters, said Hans Johnson, a demographer specializing in immigration studies at
the Public Policy Institute of California.

"If anything, Sept. 11 would have a short-term effect on immigration. Any
long-term decline would more strongly be related to the economy," Johnson said.

A Northeastern University study last year said immigrants accounted for more
than half the growth in the labor force between 1990 and 2001, filling openings
in factories, textile mills and other blue-collar industries.

Among the other highlights from the census report:

* Almost 17 million people, or just more than half the foreign-born population
last year, came from Latin America. More than half of the 17 million arrived
after 1990.

* Slightly more than one-quarter of the foreign-born population had a bachelor's
degree or more, about the same as the native-born population. More than 20
percent of the foreign-born population had less than a ninth-grade education,
compared with about 5 percent of the native population.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              146 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 21, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FBI AGENTS INTERVIEW IRAQIS IN U.S. IN ANTI-TERROR EFFORT;
 IMMIGRATION, FBI AGENTS ALSO MAY NOW DETAIN IRAQIS IN COUNTRY ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The FBI began knocking on doors of Iraqis in the United States Thursday morning
as part of a nationwide effort to prevent terrorism at home during the war in
Iraq.

The knock came at 9 a.m. for a 25-year-old Iraqi man in St. Louis, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity.

"They came nicely and asked, 'Can we do a voluntary interview?' They asked what
I'd studied, whether I graduated, did I serve in the (Iraqi) army, and, just in
general, do I know anybody in a terrorist organization," said the man, a
bartender who has lived in the St. Louis area with his parents and brothers
since 1996. "They were there about an hour and 20 minutes."

The agents are working off a questionnaire, just as the FBI did after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, when Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered agents to
interview 5,000 young men from nations where al-Qaida was known to have an
active presence.

Also Thursday, immigration and FBI officials began to seek and detain Iraqis who
are in the United States illegally.

FBI Director Robert Mueller said the efforts were all part of an attempt to
prevent retaliation in the United States for the war on Iraq.

"While our armed forces are leading the fight overseas, the FBI is ready to
defend Americans from retaliatory attacks here at home," Mueller said in a
statement. "We are running down every lead, responding to every threat,
coordinating with every partner, and doing our utmost to keep terrorists from
striking back."

Concerns are raised

Ibrahim Hooper of the Council on American-Islamic Relations said the Muslim
civil rights group had not received any complaints about the interviews, but he
questioned their effectiveness. "Any law enforcement activity should be based on
probable cause of wrongdoing, not on anyone's race, ethnicity, national origin
or religion," Hooper said.

In its first day, the FBI also tapped the leaders of national organizations like
the Iraqi-American Council. The group's chairman, Aziz Al-Taee, spent a
near-sleepless night Wednesday at his home in Philadelphia, as news of the war
broke. At 3 a.m. Thursday he had an emotional phone conversation with his
parents, four sisters and two brothers in Baghdad.

Later that morning, Al-Taee received a call from the FBI to schedule an
interview. He said he was aware of other interviews in Philadelphia - all of
which, he said, "were very professional. Information gathering, not
interrogation."

FBI spokesman Bill Carter declined to say how many Iraqis were targeted for
interviews nationwide. He also would not provide the criteria for choosing those
to be interviewed, beyond saying that the FBI "with the Department of State and
immigration officials identified a number of Iraqi-born individuals in the
United States who we may want to interview."

Special Agent James Cochran of the Springfield, Ill., FBI office that covers
Southern Illinois declined to provide the numbers of interviews assigned to the
office. Tom Bush, special agent in charge of the St. Louis FBI office, would
only say that "numerous" interviews were assigned to his agents.

"The feedback I'm getting has been positive," Bush said. "I'm not aware of any
complaints being made to this office."

The chairman of the Mesopotamian Center in St. Louis - one of the Iraqi
Foundation's five agencies nationwide that provide social services for Iraqi
refugees - said he knew of three men in St. Louis who were interviewed Thursday.
Khalil Hassan said center leaders met with the FBI a few months ago to offer
assistance when agents began conducting similar interviews: "We invited them to
see how we can coordinate and help them out, if they needed interpretation."

Caught in the middle

Hassan estimates there are 2,000 to 3,000 Iraqis in the St. Louis area - and
many, like him, have mixed emotions about the war.

"I don't know how to feel because my family is back there. We're just between
feeling something should happen to this man (Saddam Hussein) and his group and
at the same time, it's a war. It's not fun," said Hassan, whose parents and five
sisters are still in Iraq.

They were all huddled together in a single home to await the bombing Wednesday
night, said Hassan, who called them around 9 p.m. "I was talking to my sisters
and suddenly they started to cry," Hassan said. "They said, 'They just started
bombing us.' They're scared. It was a very emotional moment."

The refugee services network, of which Mesopotamian Center is a part, canceled
its national conference this week. There were two fears:

"First, that people will be glued to the TV and not come to the conference,"
said Rahman Aljebouri, coordinator for the network at the Washington-based Iraqi
Foundation, which bought a television set to watch the war coverage. "And we
were worried that a lot of Iraqis would be monitored in airports and since our
members were going to be on planes going from one state to another state, we
feared it would be hostile."

He knows of a man in Virginia who was called in for an interview by the FBI
Thursday - but he said the man didn't want to talk about it with a reporter.

"A lot of people are scared, and sometimes they worry, 'Why did they come to
interview me and not the other guy?'" Aljebouri said. "Most of them don't have
(U.S.) citizenship, so they don't want to talk, because basically it could be
used against them in the future."

That fear may be more immediate in the interviews with the FBI, since Ashcroft
recently granted agents the ability to detain people on immigration violations.
Before the change, only immigration officers could make arrests based on
immigration violations. Ashcroft made the decision internally, without
publicizing the new rule, on Dec. 18, according to a copy of the internal
document.

Bush, of the St. Louis FBI, said the new power has not been put to use by agents
from his field office so far.

"That will be used judiciously in fairly rare circumstances," Bush said. "There
might be a situation where you were going to conduct investigations on X person
who did not have immigration problems and you encounter people who did, and
maybe immigration officials weren't available, you could potentially use it in
that situation."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA AT WAR - IMPACT AT HOME; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Robert) Mueller - Effort aims to avert;
retaliation for war

TYPE: REACTION; IRAQ INVASION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              147 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 23, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

THOUSANDS OF PAKISTANIS, SAUDIS REGISTER BEFORE DEADLINE;
 MEN FROM THOSE NATIONS WERE REQUIRED TO REGISTER WITH U.S. BY FRIDAY

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The deadline ended Friday for thousands of male visitors from Pakistani and
Saudi Arabia to be fingerprinted and questioned at U.S. immigration offices as
part of an anti-terrorism plan to track foreign visitors.

A total of 18,941 Pakistanis and 3,293 Saudi Arabians had registered at
immigration offices as of Wednesday - the latest figures available from the
Homeland Security department. They were among 54,484 men from 24 Muslim and Arab
nations and North Korea who have registered so far.

Refugee advocates said the registration requirement prompted thousands more to
return to Pakistan or seek asylum in Canada to avoid registration - and
potential deportation for those in the United States on overstayed visas. Asad
Hayauddin, spokesman for the Pakistan Embassy in Washington, agreed.

"I would say in the hundreds went back to Pakistan and in the thousands tried to
go to Canada," said Hayauddin, who said that those Pakistanis who did register
had few complaints. "There were minimal detentions - not even in the teens - and
the people who were processed (for deportations) were allowed to be released on
bond."

A spokesman for Saudi Arabia's embassy in Washington, Nail Al-Jubeir, said there
were no major glitches reported from Saudis who registered.

Both nations had protested the registration requirement, which applies to male
visitors 16 and older from those nations - including those here on student,
tourist and business visas. Unveiled last year by Attorney General John
Ashcroft, the registration program was developed as a way to more closely track
the whereabouts of visitors in the United States. All of the Sept. 11, 2001,
hijackers came to the United States on such visas. The program drew waves of
criticism from civil rights and Muslim groups each time the targeted countries
were announced - since all but one nation was a Muslim or Arabic country.

However, Homeland Security officials defend the program as intelligence-based:
"It is important because all the countries that are listed are countries where
al-Qaida or other terrorist organizations have been active or where the United
States has other national security concerns," said Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman for the department.

Strassberger said that since the registration of males from the first group of
countries began on Nov. 14, slightly over 10 percent of all the registrants were
served with papers to appear for deportation hearings due to immigration
violations. But immigration officials have detained a much smaller number -
1,854. As of Wednesday, 87 were still in custody, Strassberger said.

The program got off to a rocky start when Los Angeles officials detained
hundreds of men from the first round - primarily Iranians - prompting widespread
criticism.

"By and large, it's not been a repeat of what happened in Los Angeles,"
Hayauddin said.

But the registration of the Pakistanis created a quite different problem at the
U.S.-Canadian border. After their registration period began on Jan. 13, hundreds
of Pakistanis began packing up their belongings and driving north to
border-crossing cities with plans to seek asylum in Canada. Many had been living
illegally in the United States for years on overstayed student or tourist visas
- and feared deportation to Pakistan if they registered.

Their numbers overwhelmed Canadian immigration officials, who scheduled them for
future asylum interviews and returned them to the United States. There, the men
with no valid U.S. visas were arrested by immigration authorities and detained.
Their wives and children were often left to fend for themselves until the men
could post bail.

"There is one family still with us that, when the father was detained, his wife
and three kids lived in their van for five days in Vermont, when it was 20
below," said Patrick Giantonio, director of the Vermont Refugee Assistance.
"They didn't know where he was. He was detained and they were just sort of
driving around and parking, until they came into our network."

Families in similar straits filled Salvation Army shelters in Burlington, Vt.,
to capacity for months. Now, host families around the state and mosques are
hosting the still-waiting families.

Shelters in Buffalo, N.Y., another border city, faced similar overcrowding by
asylum-seekers trying to enter Canada.

Molly Short, legal supervisor for Vive La Casa, a refugee-services agency in
Buffalo, said the Pakistani numbers began to dwindle only this month - as their
deadline to register neared. But she has noted a surge in asylum applications of
people from Bangladesh, Indonesia and Egypt, countries which - along with Jordan
and Kuwait - are the last group of the 25 nations whose U.S. visitors are
required to register.

Their deadline to appear is April 25.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              148 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 28, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SCC HELPS IMMIGRANTS LEARN HOW TO BECOME U.S. CITIZENS

BYLINE: Robin Seaton Jefferson Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST ; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 570 words


* A free 12-week session teaches participants to answer questions about the
citizenship application and helps students practice for the citizenship
interview.

What were the 13 original states? What special group advises the president?
Whose rights are guaranteed by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights?

These are just some of the questions an Immigration and Naturalization Services
officer might ask someone who wants to become a U.S. citizen.

Instructors at St. Charles Community College are helping immigrants learn
civics, history, government and citizenship so they can answer those questions.
A free 12-week citizen preparation session at the college teaches participants
to answer questions about the citizenship application and helps students
practice for the citizenship interview.

Students must possess intermediate to advanced English proficiency and must have
a green card or resident card for four years (two years if their spouse is a
citizen) to take the course. The current session began in January and ends this
week. The next course is to begin April 5.

Mock interviews are conducted during the course by a volunteer acting as an INS
officer. "The interview is typically very intimidating to prospective citizens
because wrong answers can result in denial of citizenship," said Mark Williams,
an instructor for the preparation classes.

The classes are a new offering of the college's Adult Education and Literacy and
English As A Second Language, or ESL, programs. The college started the
citizenship preparation session after officials saw a steady enrollment increase
in the English classes.

"We could see there was a demand for such a program based on the growth of the
ESL classes and huge growth of the immigrant population," Williams said. "In the
two years I've taught ESL here, I've had students from 38 countries."

The current session of the course has students from Mexico, Lithuania, Japan,
the Philippines, Colombia, the Netherlands, Uganda, Russia, Bosnia and the
Ukraine.

Ingrid Casillo, ESL lead teacher, became a U.S. citizen nine years ago. The
native of Italy said she can relate to the difficulty facing students, many of
whom come out of the classes knowing more about the history of America than do
some people born here.

"Everyone should be compelled to know these questions because if you are an
American citizen, this is your country, after all," she said. "I see the United
States as a family. It's nice to know the roots."

Casillo said she encouraged anyone who chose to live in America to become a
citizen. "If they selected to live in this country they should go all the way."

Hugo Gonzalez, 38, of Troy, is one such citizen-to-be. He is the father of four
and has coached soccer for his daughters and sent his oldest to college in the
13 years he has lived in America. Just recently, Gonzalez, a native of Mexico,
decided to declare his allegiance to this country.

"I live by the laws of the United States. I want to vote," he said.

Gonzalez, who works for Toyota, said he was 9 when he heard two Americans
speaking English on a subway in Mexico City. "My head filled up with the
beautiful musical language. So here I am. I never wanted to go back."

The next citizenship course will be offered from 9 a.m.-noon, April 5 to June
28. For more information on the citizenship or English classes, call
636-922-8411. Class size is limited to 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by ROBIN SEATON JEFFERSON - Mieko Walsh, 52, who is from
Japan, takes notes at the St. Charles Community College's citizenship
preparedness course.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              149 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 31, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

30 NEW AMERICANS DESERVED A SPEECH TO FIT TROUBLED TIME

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO ; Bill McClellan Column; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 639 words


I attended a naturalization ceremony at the federal courthouse in East St. Louis
on Friday, and wrote about it for Sunday's newspaper. Thirty people became U.S.
citizens. Their friends and families filled the courtroom of Judge Michael
Reagan. His law clerk, Julie Gomric, sang "The Star Spangled Banner." His deputy
clerk, Cheryl Ritter, sang "America the Beautiful." Students from a school in
Belleville recited the "Pledge of Allegiance."

The ceremony was inspirational.

The only thing that could have been better was the address by the guest speaker.
The speech was not awful. It was short and to the point. "We are a nation of
immigrants. Blah, blah, blah." In normal times, that would be perfect. But these
are not normal times.

Here is what I wish he would have said:

"Welcome to the Great Debate. The Big Argument. The Food Fight. Call it what you
will, but don't be afraid to participate. What this country has been from the
very start -- what it's still about -- is an endless and heated discussion about
what we ought to be doing.

"We argue about everything. You heard Julie Gomric sing 'The Star Spangled
Banner.' You heard Cheryl Ritter sing 'America the Beautiful.' We argue about
those songs. I'm serious. We really do. Some people argue that the second song
ought to replace the first as our national anthem. And those that make that
argument argue among themselves. Some of them say the 'The Star Spangled Banner'
is too war-like. Others say the message is fine, but it's too difficult to sing.
Too many high notes.

"And you just heard those school kids recite 'The Pledge of Allegiance.' We
argue about that, too. Some say the words 'under God' ought to be taken out.
They say it's unfair to atheists. Speaking of religion, the majority of people
in this country are Christian. Should they be allowed to have Nativity scenes
displayed on government property during their biggest religious holiday? We
argue about it.

"Some of this might sound silly, and admittedly, some of it is. But I like to
think of it as practice. You see, sometimes we argue about very, very serious
matters.

"Right now, for instance, we're arguing about the war in Iraq. Should we, by the
use of force, remove a dictator? Should we oust a dictatorial regime and replace
it with a democracy? Can we successfully impose a democracy on a people? Should
we? At what cost in blood and money?

"I'm sure many of you have your own ideas about this. I look at this roster in
front of me, and I see that one of you is from Pakistan. Another from Iran. One
from China. Another from Egypt. You have come to us from every corner of the
globe.

"I don't know what you think. Maybe those of you who have come from dictatorial
countries believe that we have a sacred duty to free enslaved people. Or maybe
not. Maybe you see us, as much of the world seems to, as an aggressor.

"Whatever. You are a citizen. You have a right to your opinion. Don't hesitate
to express it. One of the beauties of this country is that you can disagree with
the government, and you don't have to do so in a whisper.

"But let me ask something of you. Be passionate, but be respectful. Remember
that those who disagree with you are not necessarily stupid. Or greedy. Or
unpatriotic.

"There is an unfortunate trend these days toward disrespect. You can listen to
some radio stations, and hear people who belittle those who disagree with them.
They sneer. They ridicule. They express contempt for the other side.

"Turn those radio stations off. That brand of talk -- while fully protected by
the Constitution to which you have just pledged your allegiance -- does great
damage to this country. Because what we are about is the Great Debate. And it
works best when we keep it civil. So express yourself, but be respectful."

That is what I wish I had said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: E-mail: bmcclellan@post-dispatch.com

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              150 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    April 6, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

NATIONAL ARCHIVES PUTS HISTORICAL RECORDS ON WEB;
 50 MILLION DOCUMENTS ARE NOW AT FINGERTIPS OF COMPUTER USERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Researchers, genealogists and the plain curious can now use the Internet to
check more than 50 million historical records at the National Archives, from
Civil War battles to family immigration files.

Before the system became available, people had to either visit the National
Archives and spend hours combing through documents or request the files by
telephone and pay to have them mailed.

"Now, people can pull these electronic records at their own convenience," said
Michael Carlson, electronic and special media records director for the archives.
"It's totally self-service from your desktop."

The records available on the database system (www.archives.gov/aad/) represent a
small fraction of the archives' electronic holdings. They were selected because
of their analytical and statistical nature - most deal with information that
easily can be looked up based on specific names, dates, organizations, cities or
states.

For instance, someone wanting to research a great-grandfather who immigrated to
the United States in the 19th century can choose the series of records listed
under "immigrants," enter the relative's name and learn on what ship he
traveled, the occupation he claimed prior to leaving, the date he arrived in New
York, and the country from which he left, among other details.

"It can be another stop in creating your family tree and understanding what
happened and when," said Michael Kurtz, assistant archivist for records
services.

Carlson said he expects the service will be popular with veterans in particular
because of all the information related to military action, casualties and POWs.

The records in the new system "aren't a revelation in information, but is it
helpful? Absolutely," said American Legion spokesman John Peterson after
checking out the Web site.

"A lot of people active with the POW/MIA issue complain the government doesn't
release enough documents about people who are still missing, so almost anything
they give out is good in our eyes," he said.

The database draws from the records of 20 federal agencies. Most of the
information was created by the agencies to suit their own program needs, without
any thought to its historical significance.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              151 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    April 6, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

NATIONAL ARCHIVES PUTS HISTORICAL RECORDS ON WEB;
 50 MILLION DOCUMENTS ARE NOW AT FINGERTIPS OF COMPUTER USERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Researchers, genealogists and the plain curious can now use the Internet to
check more than 50 million historical records at the National Archives, from
Civil War battles to family immigration files.

Before the system became available, people had to either visit the National
Archives and spend hours combing through documents or request the files by
telephone and pay to have them mailed.

"Now, people can pull these electronic records at their own convenience," said
Michael Carlson, electronic and special media records director for the archives.
"It's totally self-service from your desktop."

The records available on the database system (www.archives.gov/aad/) represent a
small fraction of the archives' electronic holdings. They were selected because
of their analytical and statistical nature - most deal with information that
easily can be looked up based on specific names, dates, organizations, cities or
states.

For instance, someone wanting to research a great-grandfather who immigrated to
the United States in the 19th century can choose the series of records listed
under "immigrants," enter the relative's name and learn on what ship he
traveled, the occupation he claimed prior to leaving, the date he arrived in New
York, and the country from which he left, among other details.

"It can be another stop in creating your family tree and understanding what
happened and when," said Michael Kurtz, assistant archivist for records
services.

Carlson said he expects the service will be popular with veterans in particular
because of all the information related to military action, casualties and POWs.

The records in the new system "aren't a revelation in information, but is it
helpful? Absolutely," said American Legion spokesman John Peterson after
checking out the Web site.

"A lot of people active with the POW/MIA issue complain the government doesn't
release enough documents about people who are still missing, so almost anything
they give out is good in our eyes," he said.

The database draws from the records of 20 federal agencies. Most of the
information was created by the agencies to suit their own program needs, without
any thought to its historical significance.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              152 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 15, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

STRICTER U.S. IMMIGRATION RULES LEAVE FAMILIES LIVING IN POVERTY AND UNCERTAINTY

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 1185 words


* One Afghan family, set to travel Sept. 12, 2001, still waits in Pakistan.

Mohammad Naseem Ahmadzai wonders sometimes if his once-promised chance to start
a new life in the United States was all just a crazy dream.

Naseem and his wife, Rabia, fled almost-certain death in Afghanistan to live as
refugees in Pakistan. Two and a half years ago, the family applied to the United
Nations for asylum and won a chance to live in what they believed would be peace
in a distant place called St. Louis.

The dream was once within hours of becoming reality, only to vanish. Now he
wonders if the chance will ever come again.

America has tightened its borders in the 19 months since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. As a result, the country is on a pace this year to admit the fewest
number of refugees since World War II.

An unknown number are like the Ahmadzai family, once approved for travel to the
United States but now trapped in often dangerous overseas locations.

Government officials say the changes are necessary for national security.

But with an estimated 15 million refugees worldwide, mostly women and children,
the slowing of entries to a trickle troubles refugee advocates in the United
States.

They say the government's new policy runs counter to one of the nation's
founding principles -- providing safe harbor to those fleeing persecution.

"This is a country that was founded by victims of religious persecution," said
Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum program for the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights. "Our traditions of commitment to protecting refugees is seriously
undermined when we cut the very lifeline that has been essential in protecting
refugees around the world.

"The impact on refugees is very real. . . . We're stranding people in very
dangerous situations."

Accused by the Taliban

Ahmadzai's story is particularly troubling.

A doctor with a comfortable living, he and his wife fled from Kabul,
Afghanistan, in 1993 when the mujahedeen accused him of cooperating with the
former Soviet-backed communist regime.

"We lost our dignity, our reputation," said Ahmadzai, who is about 40. "There
was nothing to stay for."

They settled in Quetta, a dusty, smog-choked frontier town in western Pakistan
that is home to many of the radical madrassas, or religious sc hools, where many
of the Taliban were taught.

Rabia Ahmadzai, also a doctor, eventually found work in a hospital. Naseem later
got a job with a humanitarian organization and with the help of money from
relatives eked out a meager existence. For two years, he worked as a doctor in a
refugee camp nearby. Still, they lost hope of regaining the life they once
enjoyed.

In 1998, an associate convinced him to return to Afghanistan to work for a
humanitarian aid group.

"We were told, 'The Taliban is coming, there will be peace,' " he recalled. "We
went with high hopes. We thought we would return and help our people."

But eventually, Taliban intelligence agents accused him of being a U.S. spy,
working with infidels and spreading non-Islamic ideas. They th reatened to kill
him.

In September 2000, the family, which now included two young sons, fled to
Pakistan again. A month later, he applied to the United Nations high
commissioner for refugees for political asylum.

Nearly a year later, after interviews and security checks, his family was among
a group of 44 refugees notified by the United Nations that they would leave
Pakistan within days, destined for St. Louis.

Finally, he thought, a departure date -- September 12, 2001.

Like many of the families, the Ahmadzais arrived at a Quetta bus station before
dawn that morning, their life's belongings stuffed into three bulging bags.

Only then did they learn that because of the previous day's terrorist attacks on
the United States, all flights were canceled. Refugee travel resumed two months
later but at a snail-like pace.

In January 2002, a Post-Dispatch reporter visited the family in the cramped room
they shared in a block of apartments off a busy Quetta street.

"We are hopeful we will have a bright and prosperous future in the United
States," Naseem Ahmadzai said then. He was uncertain then when the family would
leave.

"Maybe next week," he said. "But for now we don't know."

The impact here

At the current rate, only about 16,000 refugees will be admitted to the United
States this year, the lowest number since passage of the nation's first refugee
act after World War II. The loss of an influx of refugees is having both short
and long-term ramifications in St. Louis.

Local agencies that sponsor refugees have seen the number of families relocated
here decline dramatically.

The International Institute typically resettles about 1,000 refugees each year.
Last year, the number dropped to 352. This year, the agency is on a pace to
resettle only about 250. The decreased workload led the institute to cut 15
employees.

It's a similar story at Catholic Refugee Services. In 1999, the agency resettled
900 refugees, a record. This year they project 86.

"If the number of refugees stays as low as they have been in the last couple of
years, they are going to have little or no positive impact on population," said
Anna Crosslin of the International Institute. "That has fallout in terms of
housing in neighborhoods that doesn't get filled and businesses that don't have
enough customers to keep them viable."

The resettlement of large numbers of Bosnian refugees to St. Louis during the
1990s led others to migrate here from across the United States, creating one of
the nation's largest Bosnian communities. Many moved into aging neighborhoods in
south St. Louis, found jobs, filled houses of worship and started businesses.
The influx of Bosnian refugees is credited with helping slow the city's
population decline to the lowest rate in 50 years.

They also contribute to a city's rich and diverse cultural fabric.

"When they can get to the point of sharing their deep cultures and traditions
... they have a chance to change hearts, and you can't put a price on that,"
said Rich Fanning, of Catholic Charities. "Particularly today, that's a real
need."

Eventually, many of the families who gathered with the Ahmadzais that morning at
the bus station would find their way to America and St. Louis.

But Naseem Ahmadzai faced an additional hurdle those families did not. Part of
the new security procedures enacted in November 2001 require much more detailed
security investigations of men entering the United States from an undisclosed
number of predominantly Muslim countries.

All three Afghan families booked on the Ahmadzais' Sept. 12 flight who have yet
to arrive in St. Louis have males who fit the new security profile.

On March 10, the United Nations summoned Naseem Ahmadzai to Islamabad t o again
undergo refugee orientation in advance of travel.

He expected to receive a departure date by the end of March, but the start of
the war in Iraq may have once again delayed his trip.

"We don't know when we will get the news. Maybe in the next two or three weeks,"
he said. "We are not losing hope."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AFGHAN REFUGEES; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by ANDREW CUTRARO / POST-DISPATCH - Mohammad Naseem
Ahmadzai, shown with his two sons in January 2002 in Pakistan, and his family
were approved for relocation to St. Louis in September 2001. Instead, they found
themselves among the thousands whose hopes for a new life were disrupted by the
clampdown on immigration since the terrorist attacks on the United States.

TYPE: PROFILE; MOHAMMED NASEEM AHMADZAI

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              153 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 26, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. HAS REGISTERED 77,000 ARAB AND MUSLIM MALE VISITORS TO AMERICA IN 9-11
PROGRAM

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* A fourth phase of the questioning and fingerprinting ended Friday at U.S.
immigration offices. The program is aimed at keeping better track of aliens in
the wake of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.

The deadline passed Friday for a fourth round of fingerprinting and questioning
of men from Arab and Muslim countries. As of midweek, almost 77,000 male
visitors appeared at immigration offices nationwide, U.S. officials said.

The program is part of the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System
announced last year by Attorney General John Ashcroft. It has led to the
detentions of 2,383 men since the interviews began in November. In all, 199
remain in custody, immigration officials said.

Of the total group, 10,697 were issued notices to appear before an immigration
judge for deportation hearings.

In the latest round of the program, male visitors age 16 and older from
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait were required to register. That
group - more than 29,000 strong as of Tuesday, the latest count available - was
the largest of the four phases to date.

The program is designed to better track foreign visitors in the United States
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks carried out by 19 aliens. It has required
the registration of men from 25 countries to date. In that group, North Korea is
the only nation that is not predominantly Muslim or Arabic.

The requirement applies to visitors such as those in the country on student,
business or tourist visas - but not to diplomats or to citizens of the targeted
countries who are legal permanent residents of the United States.

Ashcroft has repeatedly said that the program will eventually apply to visitors
from all nations. But since enforcement of the program shifted March 1 from the
Justice Department to the new Department of Homeland Security, no new countries
have been added.

"I think the program will be evaluated and decisions will be made about it in
the future, but right now, there are no plans to call up any additional groups,"
immigration spokesman Lori Haley said. She said Homeland Security Secretary Tom
Ridge "will be making decisions about that."

The program supplements another aspect of the entry-exit registration program,
which registers visitors as they enter the country. Immigration officials have
registered 56,132 at the ports of entry, where they fingerprint, photograph and
interview male visitors from five nations designated as state sponsors of
terrorism: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria.

But officials at the ports of entry also have discretion to require visitors
from any nation to go through registration - and visitors from more than 100
countries have had to do so before entering the country.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              154 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 28, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

AFGHAN IMMIGRANT CAME TO U.S. SEEKING FREEDOM, AND HE FOUND IT

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words


* When he left his native land, civil war was raging.

When young Fahime Mohammad came from Afghanistan to St. Louis about 12 years
ago, he was hoping for safety and freedom.

So far, he has found what he was looking for.

"The big difference between life in Afghanistan and in the U.S. is freedom -
religious freedom and social freedom and political freedom," he said. "Here you
can criticize the government. You can maintain whatever opinion you want."

Mohammad is now 29 and an immigration success story. But when he looks back at
his native land, it is with sadness for the continuing wars, poverty and
needless death - and with hope for a better future.

"The U.S. belongs there," he said. "I hope my country is rebuilt. I would go
back to help. But not to stay."

His journey to the United States as a teenager was an adventure in itself. His
mother and father had decided to send him and his brother, Qayum, to the United
States because in Afghanistan at the time, teenage boys were ripe for
conscription. "We didn't want to serve in the Soviet-backed army. Because it
wasn't just to kill other Afghans," he said.

At that time, Islamic guerrillas were fighting the communist regime. Later there
would be a civil war.

"Part of the journey was walking," he recalled. "We were afraid someone would
shoot at us from a plane. So we walked while it was dark."

Mohammad was stuffed in the back of a minivan and whisked from Afghanistan into
Pakistan. He traveled by plane to Los Angeles by way of Thailand and South
Korea. But that wasn't the end of the adventure.

When they arrived in Los Angeles, he and his brother were asked for their
passports. They had none; he noted that hundreds of other people from a variety
of countries at the Los Angeles airport were in the same situation.

They were jailed with adults at first and then put in a juvenile center. No one
tried to hurt them at either place. Finally their uncle, who was living in St.
Louis, was able to come and get them after about 20 days.

In St. Louis, Mohammad attended Roosevelt High School and began lea rning to
speak English. He also picked up English working at his uncle's sandwich shop.
Among his first words were "pickles," "olives" and "jalapeno pepper."

He won political asylum from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. That
meant he could stay in the United States at least temporarily. Later, when he
married, he received permanent-resident status. He can live here permanently and
work here but he cannot vote.

The computer industry is proving to be a ticket to success in America for
Mohammad. He works as a computer troubleshooter for Edward Jones; he deals with
the company's many investment offices, and he is working toward a degree in
computer science at Webster University. He also works as a waiter at Old Warson
Country Club.

His marriage ended after five years, in part because he was so involved in his
career, but he has had some success in reuniting with his family. He now lives
in the Dogtown neighborhood with his parents, his uncle, and his brother and his
brother's family. Other siblings have settled in Germany, England and Pakistan.

For fun he surfs the Internet, works out and eats seafood - something he never
had in mountainous Afghanistan.

"Everything is choices here," he said. "My long-term goal is to get involved in
some kind of business that I'll be able to connect internationally, so I can
associate with my other family members."

He is very aware that none of it could have happened had he stayed in
Afghanistan. "Freedom is number one." he said. "I thank God that I came here."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTOS BY KATHERINE BISH; (1) Color Photo - Fahime Mohammad
(left) shares a traditional dinner of rice, chicken stew, salad and bread with
his father, Ghulam Mohammad, at the family's home in Dogtown.; (2) Color Photo -
Fahime Mohammad holds his nephew, Sameem Mohammad, 11 months.; (3) Zytoon
Mohammad, Fahime Mohammad's mother, relaxes with her grandson, Sameem, after
dinner at the family's home in Dogtown.; (4) RIGHT: Fahime Mohammad owns a 1998
Mercedes-Benz.

TYPE: PROFILE; FAHIME MOHAMMED

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              155 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 8, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. WILL DETAIN AIR TRAVELERS WITH SARS SYMPTOMS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of customs and immigrations inspectors and other federal homeland
security workers are being trained to spot symptoms of SARS, and they have
orders to detain people with symptoms of the highly contagious illness.

The training is part of the government's effort to prevent an outbreak in the
United States of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome.

Officials said travelers would be detained if they showed symptoms of SARS,
including high fever, dry cough and breathing trouble, or if they said they are
experiencing these symptoms. A public health official would then be summoned.

Dennis Murphy, a Homeland Security Department spokesman, said 22 major U.S.
airports, including Kennedy International in New York and Los Angeles
International, have public health officials on site. Murphy did not provide a
list of the airports.

Other airports, he said, have health officials on call.

Julie Gerberding, director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, said quarantine officials had been stationed at airports for decades
to detect disease and were sensitive to the inconvenience of detention. "We
really do try to be respectful of citizens rights," she told a House Energy and
Commerce subcommittee.

Robert Bonner, commissioner of the department's Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection, said special attention was being given to passengers arriving in the
United States on 51 daily flights from Asia, including Hong Kong, Singapore and
Beijing.

"We have the authority to detain any individual who appears to have SARS, and we
can, will and should exercise that authority," Bonner said.

There are 63 probable U.S. cases of SARS, the CDC says.

America's public health system - especially its front-line emergency rooms - is
not ready for an outbreak of SARS or a similar infectious disease, according to
a new government report and top trauma doctors.

"Most hospitals lack adequate equipment, isolation facilities, and staff to
treat a large increase in the number of patients for an infectious diseases such
as SARS," the General Accounting Office reported Wednesday in testimony to the
House Energy and Commerce Committee.

And emergency room doctors, meeting in Washington, told Knight Ridder Newspapers
that an outbreak could collapse an already fragile American emergency room
network.

"I liken the SARS problem right now to a 2-acre fire in a tinder-dry forest,"
said Dr. Arthur Kellerman, an Emory University School of Medicine professor and
Atlanta emergency room doctor. "We don't have the capacity in any city in my
mind to handle a real outbreak of the disease."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 10, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR : RACIST PROTESTERS MAR CINCO DE MAYO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 411 words


I am embarrassed and dumbfounded that we still have groups like the Council of
Conservative Citizens living in this country. During Cinco de Mayo, its members
demonstrated against immigration.

How dare they waste time with their racist views? Sure, illegal aliens are
breaking the law, but to lump a Mexican worker and the Taliban together is
ridiculous. It's one thing to say we need tighter border control, but to insult
a whole country's culture is totally offensive.

Earl Holt says, "Our open border with Mexico has become a conduit for drugs and
unskilled workers who take jobs (for less pay) and force incomes to ratchet
downward." He implies that all Mexicans are unskilled. How would he know? People
are hiring them. No one is stopping him from applyi ng for those same jobs.

Holt refers to the immigration of a century ago and the waves of Europeans,
"with whom we share a common cultural ethos, rather than the dregs of the Third
World who have turned their own countries into cesspools and will do that to our
country if we let them." That's something a scared and cowardly person would
say.

Does he not realize that when the waves of Europeans came here they did not
share a "common cultural ethos" with the indigenous inhabitants of this country
that the Europeans took from them? Does he not realize that we unfairly acquired
a huge chunk of the United States from Mexico?

One of the things that make our country so great is the diversity and the
compassionate nature of the people no matter what race, creed or religion. I
would be proud to have the immigrants I've met as my neighbors and friends -
rather than anyone in the Council of Conservative Citizens.

Instead of standing on the side of a highway with insulting signs, why doesn't
Holt do something productive? If he feels he has so many skills, why doesn't he
share some of those skills and teach them to the "unskilled" workers?

Why didn't he join in the Cinco de Mayo festival and speak to some of the people
from Mexico instead of insulting them on a day of celebration?

Richard Rogers said that immigrants are destroying his culture and changing his
country. I say, Open your eyes, Mr. Rogers. This country is made up of
immigrants, and you are the people that are destroying it with your
hate-mongering, white-pride approach.

Put down your signs. Educate yourself and take care of your family. That's all
the immigrants are trying to do.

Sandra Marchewa

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              157 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 24, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: INSTEAD OF EXPLOITING IMMIGRANTS, WE SHOULD IMPROVE THEIR
STANDARD OF LIVING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 228 words


A May 5 article, "Anti-immigrant group stages protest on Cinco de Mayo," quotes
Earl Holt speaking of sharing a "common cultural ethos" with the immigrants of a
century ago vs. the "dregs of the Third World" entering our southern border
today.

Shame on the school system he attended. If my memory serves me correctly, Andrew
Carnegie was once the richest man in the world. More importantly, he was a
Scottish immigrant who was notorious for pitting one ethnic immigrant group
against another - all in the name of profits for the fledgling steel and
railroad industries.

As for Richard Rodgers' concern about these immigrants destroying his culture
and changing his country, unless he is of Native American descent, I suggest he
rethink his remarks pertaining to the immigrant "invasion."

By no means do I condone the illegal status of these immigrants, but our free
market economy (including you and me) certainly does; otherwise, they would not
be here to do the menial tasks bestowed upon them.

Are Holt and Rodgers - or their children - willing to perform strenuous and
dangerous manual labor for less than $6 an hour without benefits?

In my opinion, the solution to their dilemma lies in assisting the less
fortunate and improving their standard of living - not exploiting immigrants for
personal gains.

John S. Gaal

Carpenters' Union

Ballwin

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              158 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 29, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

ROOSEVELT HIGH IS ST. LOUIS MICROCOSM;
SCHOOL STRETCHES TO WELCOME CHILDREN OF IMMIGRANTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD

BYLINE: Jake Wagman Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words


For Roosevelt High School senior Niyaz Ali, lunch is a buffet of world
languages.

A taste of Vietnamese. A sampling of Somali. Perhaps some Pashtu, Kurdish,
Arabic or Amharic, an Ethiopian dialect.

"It makes you feel good when you go to lunch and hear 20 or 30 different
languages being spoken," Niyaz said. "I have been in Roosevelt for three years,
and I can speak Bosnian just by hanging out with them."

The Roosevelt High Class of 2003 provides a cross-section of the diversity that
has emerged in St. Louis since the late 1990s, when ethnic strife, civil war and
hope for new opportunities landed thousands here.

When 321 Roosevelt seniors don the cap and gown on Friday, they take with them
not only a diploma but also the learning that comes from sharing a school with
students from every corner of the globe.

For instance, Niyaz's circuitous path to St. Louis began 18 years ago in Kenya,
where he was born, then moved quickly to Turkey, where his parents are from. He
spent a dozen years in Iraq before coming to America and enrolling at Roosevelt
as a sophomore. As is often the case with the children of recent arrivals, Niyaz
speaks better English than his parents, and at the time of the war with Iraq he
would translate television news coverage for them.

Many of the immigrants are refugees from embattled countries such as Bosnia and
Somalia. When thousands of them came to St. Louis, many of them left family and
friends behind.

Leyla Ali, 18, is returning to Somalia this summer to visit a sick grandmother
whom she hasn't seen since leaving Africa in 1996. Asked about her trip to
America, Leyla remembers getting lost on the way to a connecting flight in
Holland and seeing snow for the first time in Chicago.

"I was like, 'What was this white stuff falling from the sky?'" she said.

Loyda Sowad, 19, is from Palau, an island nation in the South Pacific less than
one-third the size of St. Louis County. Even at a melting pot such as Roosevelt,
few had heard of Loyda's tiny homeland. Even more myst erious is why she would
leave a tropical beach for Missouri.

"That's the first question they ask," said Loyda, who will enroll at Missouri
Western State College in the fall. Her answer: "My mom wanted me to have a
better life."

South St. Louis, which feeds into Roosevelt, accounts for much of the city's
foreign-born population because of its sturdy housing stock and proximity to the
International Institute, a nonprofit agency that helps immigrants adjust to
their new surroundings.

The institute estimates there are 50,000 immigrants living in the city, about
30,000 of whom are Bosnian.

The fact that many immigrants of high school age attend Roosevelt generates a
support system, with more seasoned students helping new arrivals, both inside
and outside the classroom.

But having a high concentration of immigrants is not always a blessing. There
have been fights and tension between Bosnian and African-American students. The
high percentage of English-as-a-second-language students has contributed to low
test scores, leading the district to be only partly accredited.

The harsh label, however, doesn't bother students such as Agobe Oluwaseyi, 18,
who left Nigeria in 2001 and will attend Southeast Missouri State University
next year.

"We all come here for education," Oluwaseyi said. "Education is fantastic.
Education is No. 1 in America."

Principal Stephen Warmack, who has been at Roosevelt for six years, says the
school is working to improve learning and attendance. Roosevelt, which has about
2,000 students, piloted an on-campus truancy court, and administrators have
established "academies" within the school to offer specialized, advanced
curriculums.

"For too many years, it was assumed that our school was not what it could be,
and it may well have been," Warmack said. "We are on the road back, and we are
going to be one of the best schools in the district."

One success story is Zeljko Strkalj, a Bosnian-born student with a knack for
commercial art.

Strkalj, the son of a nurse and an assembly-line worker, sometimes leaves school
to translate for his parents when they have appointments. He moved from Bosnia
to Germany when he was 4 and moved from there to St. Louis in 1999. He is in the
school's Communications Career Academy and has been accepted to the Illinois
Institute of Art in Chicago for computer animation - "like Shrek," he said.

"I will be the first person in my family to go to college," he said. "It's a
great feeling."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Jake Wagman:; E-mail: jwagman@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8172

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by DAWN MAJORS/POST-DISPATCH - Ahmad Mustafa
Sajid (left), 16, and Zabih Ikram (center), 16, students at Roosevelt High
School in St. Louis, tease one of their classmates during lunch period. Ahmad
and Zabih are from Afghanistan.; (2) Photo by DAWN MAJORS/POST-DISPATCH - Yalada
Formuli, 14, a freshman at Roosevelt High School, talks with friends in a class
at the school. Yalada came to the United States from Afghanistan nine months
ago.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              159 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 7, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD VIEW;
MONEY FROM GALA WILL BENEFIT IMMIGRANTS AND REFUGEES HERE

BYLINE: Lisa Jones Townsel

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 213 words


EXOTIC SIGHTS and jubilant sounds permeated Forest Park's World's Fair Pavilion
last weekend during the first "Wish You Were Here!" International Institute gala
and auction.

The event, held to benefit the institute's many programs for immigrants and
refugees, flourished with vibrant attire, spirited music and buffets filled to
overflowing with such international fare as Bahamian peas and rice, homemade
lavash and chicken spiedini.

Live and silent auctions sold everything from hand-crafted blessing bowls,
karate lessons and Chinese brush-writing lessons to getaways to New York,
Virginia and Montego Bay.

Farshid etniKo, a group of Persian musicians who specialize in Latin fusion,
provided the upbeat dance music for the event, which drew a crowd of 300.

The May Department Stores Co. and its Famous-Barr, Lord & Taylor and David's
Bridal divisions were the lead underwriters for the event.

The International Institute of St. Louis provides services for new Americans,
including English classes, job placement and cultural preservation.

Want to see more ethnic attire? The International Institute's Festival of
Nations, a multicultural arts festival, gets under way today in Tower Grove
Park. Hours are noon to 7 p.m. today and 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: FASHION & BEAUTY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photos by Andrea Scott/Post-Dispatch; (1) Swapna Kommidi
of University City sparkles in a hand-woven silk sari embroidered with pearls. A
portion of the stitching, she said, was done by an aunt in her native Hyderabad,
India.; (2) Gala committee member Marylen Mann of Clayton, a self-proclaimed
"hat person," tips her lacquered modified straw fedora, which was made in Los
Angeles by a French hat designer.; (3) June Herman of University City wore
hand-loomed Brazilian pants to the gala. A delicate floral pattern covers her
brightly colored pants.; (4) Fadumo Ahmed of St. Louis wore traditional Somali
attire while volunteering at the International Institute's gala dinner. A dark
henna stain coated her fingertips, which were further accented with gold
jewelry.; (5) Fadumo Ahmed sports a traditional Somali head scarf.; (6) A
headdress made of beads, mirrors and horsehair ("to ward away evil spirits")
completed St. Louisan Jenny Zeman's ensemble, which included a Czechoslovakian
wedding dress passed down to her by a family member.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              160 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 16, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 606 words


JEANNETTE, Pa.

Skydiving plane crash kills four of five aboard

A skydiving plane crashed Sunday as it was taking off from a small western
Pennsylvania airport, killing four of the five men aboard, authorities said.

The survivor was found 10 to 15 feet from the plane, and the extent of his
injuries was not immediately known, said Ron Supancic, chief of the Claridge
Volunteer Fire Department.

Authorities said the Cessna had taken a skydiving flight earlier in the day and
was on its second flight when it crashed.

Coroner Kenneth A. Bacha said witnesses heard the plane's engine sputter and cut
out before the crash.

HOLLYWOOD, Fla.

8 Cuban migrants are taken into custody

Eight Cubans were spotted on the beach Sunday and taken into custody by Border
Patrol agents, officials said.

Officers recovered a 19-foot boat and believe the migrants may have been
smuggled to shore, although that was still under investigation, Border Patrol
spokesman Keith Roberts said.

Witnesses saw the seven men and one woman and called police, who in turn
contacted Border Patrol officers, Roberts said.

Under U.S. policy, Cuban migrants who reach U.S. soil are generally allowed to
stay, but those intercepted at sea are usually returned. After a year, Cubans
can apply for permanent residency.

AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo.

Sex assaults may go back 20 years, paper finds

The board overseeing the Air Force Academy heard reports of sexual assaults and
misconduct 20 years ago, but its yearly reports remained positive, The Denver
Post reported Sunday.

A review of 25 years of records by the academy's 15-member Board of Visitors,
charged with presiding over morale and discipline at the academy, found that
members did not pursue reports of sexual assaults and asked few questions.

Post reporters looked at transcripts of the biannual meetings and talked with
some of the presidentially appointed members, who included members of Congress,
Fortune 500 executives and other politically connected leaders.

The review follows the start of three military investigations into reports of 57
sexual assaults at the academy since 1993. A separate independent investigation
is to begin later this month.

WINTHROP, Wash.

Body of climber who fell to his death is retrieved

The body of a climber who fell to his death while hiking on a peak in
Washington's Cascade Mountains was recovered Saturday.

David Pengelly, 52, an experienced climber, was apparently walking alon g a
ledge Friday on Reynolds Peak when a large rock came loose and sent him tumbling
600 to 700 feet, said Okanogan County Sheriff Frank Rogers.

Pengelly's climbing partner hiked more than five hours to report the fall, but
cloud cover and rough terrain prevented an immediate effort to reach the body.

On Saturday, rescuers took a helicopter to the area where Pengelly had fallen,
around the 7,600-foot level of the 8,200-foot peak, Rogers said.

KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine

President, father play golf on Father's Day

President George W. Bush and his father hit a cool, damp golf course early
Sunday, pulling up in a golf cart to the first tee and exclaiming "Happy
Father's Day."

Former President George Bush went first and without hesitation drove the ball
down the fairway. "No mulligans," he said, refraining from taking another shot.

The golf game, which got under way at 6:15 a.m., was the second that father and
son played since the president arrived for a long weekend at the Bush family's
oceanfront estate at Walker's Point.

The president was leaving today for New Jersey, where he planned to speak to
business people before returning to the White House.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATIONAL FOCUS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              161 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 17, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

NEW HEAD START VENUE WILL CATER TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Matthew Franck Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 471 words


* The center's opening is the culmination of a two-year effort in which
educators visited the homes of hundreds of refugee and immigrant families.

In what was once a Victorian-era funeral home, immigrant children of numerous
native tongues will begin this month to prepare for kindergarten.

Along the way, St. Louis will be one step closer toward reversing decades of low
participation in federal Head Start preschool programs.

On Monday, dignitaries joined educators, parents and children for a grand
opening of a new Head Start program at 3013 Meramec Street in the Dutchtown
neighborhood.

The tuition-free program is expected to attract immigrant families who have
moved to St. Louis from all over the world. The spread of food at the ceremony
told the story, with Vietnamese, Bosnian and Middle Eastern dishes sharing the
buffet line with toasted ravioli.

The center's opening is an outgrowth of a two- year effort that has sent Head
Start educators into the homes of hundreds of refugee and immigrant families.

Suzana Suljic, a Bosnian refugee, is among the parents who have welcomed Head
Start into her living room. Today, she looks at her 5-year- old son and sees a
boy on equal footing with other children entering kindergarten.

"He knows a lot, and I'm sure he's ready for school," she said.

Getting Head Start services to the children who need them in St. Louis has been
a struggle for years.

In 2001, five agencies - led by the YWCA of Greater St. Louis and Grace Hill
Neighborhood Services - were chosen to oversee the program with the goal of
enrolling 3,000 children.

That target would nearly triple the enrollment of the late 1990s, when S t.
Louis gained a reputation for having poorly managed Head Start programs.

Officials from the YWCA and Grace Hill say they expect to reach their target of
3,000 children as early as this fall - essentially doubling enrollment levels
from five months ago.

Enrollment has been slowed by a lack of suitable class space.

The program that opened Monday will occupy a freshly renovated Dutchtown
landmark that most recently was the home of Schumacher-Smith Funeral Home. Mayor
Francis Slay praised the building - with its towering ceilings and sunny
classrooms - as an example of finding new uses for the city's many vacant
buildings.

The Dutchtown Head Start will be operated by Youth in Need, an agency that
already provides home visits to 240 children in their native languages. The new
center had space for an additional 60 children. Instruction will be in English,
but children and their parents can call on a faculty that speaks 18 languages.

Elma Mandal, a Head Start home educator from Bosnia, said that kind of support
will help fill the new classrooms.

"There is a great need, and we're just trying to fill a little part of it," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Matthew Franck:; E-mail: mfranck@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-849-4131

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by JUSTIN FOWLER /POST-DISPATCH - Misbal Ahmadi, 9,
works on a puzzle as Steven Graves, 3, of Hazelwood, takes a nap during a grand
opening Monday of a Head Start center in the Dutchtown neighborhood. The
tuition-free program is expected to attract immigrant families who have moved to
St. Louis from all over the world.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              162 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             June 17, 2003 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

NEW HEAD START VENUE WILL CATER TO IMMIGRANTS;
AGENCY IS ON MISSION TO BUILD PARTICIPATION

BYLINE: Matthew Franck Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 512 words


In what was once a Victorian-era funeral home, immigrant children of numerous
native tongues will begin this month to prepare for kindergarten.

Along the way, St. Louis will be one step closer toward reversing decades of low
participation in federal Head Start preschool programs.

On Monday, dignitaries joined educators, parents and children for a grand
opening of a new Head Start program at 3013 Meramec Street in the Dutchtown
neighborhood.

The tuition-free program is expected to attract immigrant families who have
moved to St. Louis from all over the world. The spread of food at the ceremony
told the story, with Vietnamese, Bosnian and Middle Eastern dishes sharing the
buffet line with toasted ravioli.

The center's opening is an outgrowth of a two-year effort that has sent Head
Start educators into the homes of hundreds of refugee and immigrant families.

Suzana Suljic, a Bosnian refugee, is among the parents who have welcomed Head
Start into her living room. Today, she looks at her 5-year-o ld son and sees a
boy on equal footing with other children entering kindergarten.

"He knows a lot, and I'm sure he's ready for school," she said.

Getting Head Start services to the children who need them in St. Louis has been
a struggle for years.

In 2001, five agencies - led by the YWCA of Greater St. Louis and Grace Hill
Neighborhood Services - were chosen to oversee the program with the goal of
enrolling 3,000 children.

That target would nearly triple the enrollment of the late 1990s, when St. Louis
had gained a reputation for having poorly managed Head Start programs. On
Monday, however, a federal official at the grand opening described a different
situation.

"Head Start in St. Louis has made dramatic improvements," said Tom Mayer of the
Kansas City office of the federal Administration for Children and Families. "It
is an accomplishment that should not go unnoticed."

Officials from the YWCA and Grace Hill say they expect to reach their target of
3,000 children as early as this fall - essentially doubling enrollment levels
from five months ago.

Enrollment has been slowed by a lack of suitable class space. Many of the
buildings used previously were found to be riddled with code violations.

The program that opened Monday will occupy a freshly renovated Dutchtown
landmark that most recently was the home of Schumacher-Smith Funeral Home. Mayor
Francis Slay praised the building - with its towering ceilings and sunny
classrooms - as an example of finding new uses for the city's many vacant
buildings.

The Dutchtown Head Start will be operated by Youth in Need, an agency that
already provides home visits to 240 children in their native languages. The new
center had space for an additional 60 children. Instruction will be in English,
but children and their parents can call on a faculty that speaks 18 languages.

Elma Mandal, a Head Start home educator from Bosnia, said that kind of support
will help fill the new classrooms.

"There is a great need, and we're just trying to fill a little part of it," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Matthew Franck:; E-mail: mfranck@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-849-4131

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by JUSTIN FOWLER/POST-DISPATCH - Misbal Ahmadi, 9, works
on a puzzle as Steven Graves, 3, of Hazelwood, takes a nap during a grand
opening Monday of a Head Start center in the Dutchtown neighborhood.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              163 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 28, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

10 ARE CHARGED OVER FALSE IDS IN TOWN POPULAR WITH IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


Ten people face federal charges that they either received or transferred
identification documents in Beardstown, Ill., to falsely claim they were U.S
citizens.

Nine Beardstown residents and one Texas man appeared in federal court Friday in
Springfield, a day after being arrested on charges of illegal document smuggling
that authorities say goes back at least to last August.

Beardstown, in Cass County, has become a popular destination for Mexican
immigrants in recent years. The town of nearly 6,000 sits along the Illinois
River, about 45 miles northwest of Springfield.

Officials allege that U.S. citizens in Texas sold their Social Security cards
and birth certificates to several people in Beardstown, who then sold them to
immigrants for as much as $1,500.

Dozens of wire transfers worth tens of thousands of dollars were traced to three
of the men, officials said.

Nine of the defendants face charges they possessed and transferred
identification documents. They face up to 15 years in prison and a $250,000
fine.

A tenth man is charged only with possessing false identification documents and
could face up to 10 years behind bars.

Several of the defendants said in court Friday they were employees at the Excel
Corp. meatpacking plant.

The six men and four women range in age from 18 to 36. Many said they could
speak only a little English and communicated with Magistrate Judge Byron Cudmore
through an interpreter.

Two men gave names in court different from the ones they were officially charged
under, and court documents allege the two men used aliases to receive and send
the false documents.

Three women were released on bond, while the others were detained for hearings
next week.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 29, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

KWAME JAMES: HOOPS VAGABOND AND A HERO, TOO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D16

LENGTH: 741 words


Kwame James is big. Basketball big. Big enough to turn heads when he walks down
the street. He is a member of a community of players operating outside the scope
of the NBA, traveling the world in search of games.

Born in Canada, James found them first in Indiana, recruited briefly by Bob
Knight and then playing four years at the University of Evansville.

Then he chased them overseas in Argentina and France. There were cameo
appearances in the NBA developmental league and the CBA and this season wit h
the Brooklyn Kings of the USBL. It's a typical itinerary for a player on the
basketball bubble.

What's not typical is how he got tangled up in immigration red tape, especially
since he happened to be a hero in the war on terrorism.

If you recognize his name, it's because James helped subdue shoe bomber Richard
Reid on a jet 30,000 feet over the Atlantic Ocean, three months after the Sept.
11 attacks.

James thought that might help his immigration situation, but when Reid pleaded
guilty, the U.S. attorney's office in Boston lost interest in James and his
expiring visitor's visa.

"He was not in position to work or to remain here," said immigration attorney
Michael Wildes, a city councilman in Engelwood, N.J., who called James' plight
to the attention of New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Rep. Joe Crowley.
Together, they found solutions.

"First, we applied for a P1 visa that allowed him to work for the USBL team,"
Wildes said. "That can be renewed annually. It's a stopgap."

Wildes promises to seek a long-term remedy for James.

"For our government not to want to help in the first place shows me we have a
way to go," he said. "We ought to be sending a strong message that we will take
under our wing victims and heroes and do what is right for them."

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Department, said there had been a misunderstanding.

"He was offered advanced parole, a means by the district office and U.S.
attorney's office to help in the trial and stay legally," Bentley said. "He was
told what he would have to do. He had an adjustment of status. With a P1 visa,
there is no point of contention between the immigration service and Mr. James."

The plane episode in etched in James' mind.

He was dozing on American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami, heading home
to Trinidad and Tobago for Christmas vacation, when a flight attendant
approached and said, "We need your help."

There was a split-second of hesitation. "Then," James said, "I looked at her
eyes and I could tell this was serious."

Ten rows behind him, Reid was battling with passengers and attendants after he
had tried to ignite explosives hidden in his shoes. James and others subdued the
Al-Qaida follower, tying him up in belts and headset wires. Then the 6-foot-8
basketball player was left to guard him.

"It was like running into a brick wall," James said. "The adrenaline stepped up.
You think, 'Is this real?' It became a movie at that point."

For the next three hours, as the flight detoured toward Boston, James an another
passenger, an Italian boxer, took turns holding Reid down by his pony tail.
There was apprehension throughout. There had been multiple hijackers on the
Sept. 11 flights. Was Reid alone?

James' mind began to race.

"I asked him if he was trying to blow up the plane and he smirked and said,
'You'll see.' That was another brick wall.

"I was scared for my life. I thought, 'Did I tell my mother I love her when we
talked? Did I accomplish everything I wanted to accomplish?'"

James looked out the window at one point and saw F-15 fighter jets flying beside
the plane.

"It definitely changed my life and the lives of everyone on that flight who knew
what was going on," he said. "Before, I was a bit sheltered. I was well-traveled
- Canada, the United States, Trinidad ... Now, I was thrown in the middle of a
possible terrorist attack."

James came away with a new appreciation for life.

"I am just happy to be alive," he said. "There is a lot of bad in the wo rld but
there is a ton of good, too."

He presses on with basketball, backed by a degree in international marketing and
some experience in reggae and hip-hop music production. He plays whistle-stop
basketball because he loves the game. And the shoe bombe r episode has left him
with a permanent nickname.

"My teammates call me 'Plane,'" he said. "It's not because how high I jump."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BASKETBALL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS - Brooklyn Kings forward Kwame
James helped subdue shoe bomber Richard Reid on a jet, three months after the
Sept. 11 attacks.

TYPE: PROFILE; KWAME JAMES

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              165 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 4, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

NEW AND SOON-TO-BE CITIZENS CELEBRATE NATION'S BIRTHDAY

BYLINE: Patricia Corrigan Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1958 words


Today is America's birthday, and everyone is invited to the party. As always,
special guests include citizens of other countries who have chosen to become
naturalized U.S. citizens and those who are in the process of becoming citizens.

According to the 2000 Census, about 32.5 million people born elsewhere make up
about 12 percent of the U.S. population. Half of those individuals have come to
America since 1990, and one-third of them have become naturalized citizens.
Locally, about one-fourth of the 19,542 immigrants in St. Louis and about half
the 42,702 immigrants in St. Louis County have become citizens.

Juan Fuentes, a native of Mexico who lives in O'Fallon, Mo., is celebrating his
second anniversary as an American today. Sherin Salih, a Kirkwood resident from
northern Iraq, is a patriot-in-waiting, as it were -- she has passed the
citizenship test and is waiting for word on her swearing-in ceremony. Victor
Chartkov, a resident of Creve Coeur from Belarus, is studying for the test.

For more information on becoming a U.S. citizen, including the requirements, see
www.immigration.gov/graphics/services/natz/general.htm

====================

SHERIN SALIH

Weary from a hurried exit from her native Iraq followed by a three-month layover
in Guam, confused by English spoken so rapidly and feeling crowded in the small
temporary apartment chosen for her large family, Sherin Salih burst into tears
the morning she couldn't find a spoon. "I cried for two days," she said,
grinning ruefully. "Now, of course, I laugh about it, but coming here was hard
-- very hard."

Salih, along with her husband and five children, came here in March 1997. Late
in 1996, they were airlifted, along with 6,000 other Kurdish people, out of
northern Iraq. "At the time, my son was a computer engineer working with a
company owned by Americans. Saddam Hussein had declared that everyone working
with American organizations were criminals and should be killed," she said. "The
hardest decision in my life was to leave, but it was a frightening time, and we
wanted to be safe."

And so Salih, a school principal, and her husband, the general manager of a
factory, left behind their nice house and most of their things and came to St.
Louis, where they knew no one. Today, Salih, 53, works as an interpreter at the
International Institute. Her husband, Mustafa Sulaiman, was injured when his
factory in Iraq was bombed and cannot work. The children range in age from 23 to
36. One is in medical school and the others work, respectively, as a computer
engineer, a chemist, an architect and an area manager with the Head Start
program.

Salih has one family member she first met when she moved here -- Suzanne
LeLaurin, a senior vice president at the International Institute. "Sherin was
the first refugee I got to know well, and I continue to be very impressed with
her ability to create a new life for herself and her family while helping others
do the same thing," LeLaurin said. "She is a very special person, and it is a
joy to have her as an employee and as a friend."

Salih said almost everyone she has met in St. Louis has been kind to her.
"Already, I don't feel so much like a foreigner. No one here looks at you,
however you dress or speak, and people are very nice," Salih said. "We find when
we go to the park or the store, people want to talk to us."

Some cultural differences still amuse Salih. "Here, even the work you do is
different from ours. The hours are longer, and people are tired. I know the U.S.
is a very rich country. People here are educated and they earn money -- but they
don't have time to spend it," she said. "In my country, we enjoy spending
afternoons with friends - we visit without calling, all very informal."

Since moving here, Salih has returned to her native land to visit family. She
said life is better there now. She also has traveled around the United States.
Now ensconced in a comfortable home in Kirkwood, Salih visits with friends,
including other Kurdish families, and goes to movies and restaurants with her
family.

"One of my sons likes Italian food, and one of my daughters likes Chinese," she
said. "Sometimes, I stay home and make Kurdish food - stuffed grape leaves and
rice made with meat, onions and celery." Today, Salih and her family will be
sampling the foods at Fair St. Louis.

Salih passed her citizenship test some months ago and is waiting to hear when
her naturalization ceremony will take place. She is happy with her decision to
seek citizenship here, but noted she likely will not love her country of origin
less. "When you are a citizen of one country for more than 50 years, you feel
torn," she said. "Still, I am so grateful to all the people here who supported
me and my family from the beginning."

====================

VICTOR CHARTKOV

Just days ago, Victor Chartkov and his family moved to their new home in Creve
Coeur. Once settled -- and after taking a break from unpacking to celebrate the
Fourth of July with a backyard barbecue -- Chartkov will continue studying for
his citizenship test along with others in his community of Russian immigrants.

Chartkov, 48, a sturdy man with a direct but pleasant gaze, moved here with his
family in 1998, after his son Koustantin, then 17, developed health problems
likely related to radiation exposure. Belarus is about 60 miles north of the
Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine, where the worst nuclear accident in history
occurred on April 26, 1986. Experts say that about 70 percent of the radioactive
dust fell on Belarus.

The move to St. Louis wasn't the first time Chartkov relocated to protect his
family. After the explosion at Chernobyl, Chartkov sent his family to live with
relatives elsewhere in Russia, and he enlisted in the Russian army. He was
stationed for five years in Germany, where his family joined him. When the
Chartkovs returned to Belarus, they discovered that many friends and neighbors
had either died or left the area to escape radioactive fallout.

Six years ago, a friend in St. Louis called Chartkov and encouraged him to
consider moving here. "I said I didn't have good enough English," said Chartkov,
who still speaks with a thick accent and struggles sometimes to find just the
right word. "My wife said we should try it, so we did." A few months later, the
telephone rang in the middle of the night. Chartkov, who was head of an
engineering firm, figured the ringing phone meant a problem at the company.
Instead, it was his friend, saying the family had been approved to apply for
permanent residence here.

Today, Chartkov works in the engineering department at Abbott Ambulance Co. In
February, he was named 2002 Employee of the Year.

His boss, James Strughold, said he is particularly impressed with Chartkov's
strong work ethic, and he appreciates his expertise. "He works on maintenance
and repairs," said Strughold, "and because of his experience, we're now able to
do more planning in engineering."

Chartkov said he plans to call friends in the republic of Belarus today to tell
them about his new home and the holiday. He said when he talks with them about
his wonderful new life in St. Louis, they don't always believe him.

When they argue or point out this country's perceived shortcomings, Chartkov
praises America with words that reflect his values: "This is the first country
in the world, a very proficient country that makes no mistakes."

Chartkov's family members also hope to become naturalized citizens, he said. His
wife, Svetlana, works as a dental assistant. Koustantin, 23, will study nursing
at the University of Missouri at St. Louis in the fall. Anna, 18, just graduated
from Horton Watkins High School in Ladue and will start St. Louis University
this fall.

"Already, she talks without an accent," said Chartkov, laughing and shaking his
head in wonderment - and perhaps a little envy.

The Chartkovs own a boat, and, when the weather cooperates, they spend time on
Rend and Carlyle lakes. Chartkov said he enjoyed fishing and hunting in the old
Soviet Union, but those interests have waned here because "there are so many
animals and so many fish - it's not the same."

In spite of the abundant wildlife here, America impresses Victor Chartkov for
many reasons. Something that really excited him was watching a limo carrying the
president of the United States stop at a red light.

"This country - what a big difference from mine," said the Russian immigrant.
"When the president of Belarus came to my town, for two hours no one could go
anywhere, because the streets were blocked off. Here, when I saw the procession
of cars stop - well, that was wonderful for me."

====================

JUAN FUENTES

"Where will I be on July 4? My family and I always go to the Arch to celebrate,"
said Juan Fuentes. "There is a lot to do, and it's always fun." Fuentes took the
oath of citizenship two years and one day ago. That was a proud day, he said,
but Fuentes recalled that the day he learned he had passed the citizenship test
was equally moving.

"When the lady told me, 'Congratulations, Mr. Fuentes,' -- how I felt -- I don't
know how to say it," said Fuentes, a look of wonder crossing his kindly face. "I
just know that becoming a U.S. citizen changed my life."

Fuentes, 32, is a native of Acatic, Mexico, a small town just outside
Guadalajara. His parents own a ranch there still. Fuentes first came to the
United States when he was 15, sneaking into the country to work in the fields
picking strawberries and tomatoes. For almost 10 years, he went back and forth
across the border before settling in Los Angeles, where two of his brothers had
moved.

After a friend in the restaurant business there suggested that Fuentes relocate
to the Midwest, Fuentes moved to St. Charles in 1996 with his wife, Esther, and
their newborn daughter. He took a job in a restaurant.

"St. Charles is a nice place, quiet - not like Los Angeles," he said. "Still,
when I came here, I didn't speak English. You don't need much English in
California, but here, you need a lot." He enrolled in a class through the
Parkway Area Adult Education and Literacy Program.

There, he met Diane Newett, who at the time was a volunteer and now works for
the program as a citizenship tutor. "Back then, Juan was living in an apartment
in St. Charles, taking English classes and working at least two jobs," Newett
said. "Still, he was the friendliest, most upbeat person I'd ever met, and he
worked so hard."

It paid off. Today, Fuentes reads English easily and speaks well, though he
worries sometimes about his pronunciation. For almost two years, he has worked
as an apprentice electrician for Ruzicka Electric & Sons in Fenton. He and his
wife recently bought their first home and a new van to hold their expanding
family - they now have two additional youngsters, a second daughter and a son.
"I'd never bought a new car before," Fuentes said. "When you buy old cars, you
pay cash, but after you become a citizen, you can apply for a loan to buy a car
or a house."

Another advantage to citizenship, Fuentes said, is that now when he goes to
Mexico to visit, he travels on an American passport. Also, encouraged by his
experience here, one of his brothers and two of his sisters have moved to
Missouri. Three of his brothers have settled in California.

Fuentes noted that, when he lived in California, it had not occurred to him to
apply for naturalization. "It was after I came to Missouri, after I started
learning to speak English, that I made the decision to become a citizen," he
said.

Fuentes said that though he misses friends in Acatic, it's easier to make a good
living in the United States. "What I have here now, I never would have had in
Mexico," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter: Patricia Corrigan; E-mail: pcorrigan@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8324

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTOS BY KAREN ELSHOUT / POST-DISPATCH; (1) Sherin Salih
and her Kurdish family fled Iraq because of threats from Saddam Hussein. She is
a caseworker at the International Institute. Here, she helps Lena Sawan of
Lebanon fill out forms to get food stamps.; (2) Victor Chartkov, who immigrated
from Belarus five years ago, works Tuesday on his new house in Creve Coeur.
"Hard work pays off in the United States," he said. "Unlike in Russia, we have
something to show for it." Chartkov was a physicist in Belarus; here, he works
for Abbott Ambulance and enjoys his hobby of rehabbing.; (3) "I knew I wanted a
house, but I never thought I would have a pool this soon," Juan Fuentes said as
he and his family enjoy the water in their backyard pool. He and his wife,
Esther, have three children -- Alex, 7; Sergio, 3; and Emily, 2.

TYPE: PROFILE; SHERIN SALIH; VICTOR CHARTKOV; JUAN FUENTES

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              166 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 6, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IRAQI IMMIGRANT LIVES THE AMERICAN DREAM

BYLINE: Elisa Crouch Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2713 words


* Ahmed Al-Sawad endured prison in Saddam Hussein's Iraq and three years in a
refugee camp in Saudi Arabia. He arrived in St. Louis penniless and alone in
1994. Now a U.S. citizen, he has a family, a home and his own business.

As Ahmed Al-Sawad stepped off a plane at Lambert Field nine years ago, he
wondered what it would take to survive.

His belongings filled a carry-on bag. His head contained a catalog of images
that pitted hope against fear. One was of the Arch towering over a sparkling
city. A postcard in his bag made the structure look like gold. Another was a
tavern filled with pool players and gunslingers, an impression of American life
from movies.

Those he imagined. The third image was real: His father urging him to leave
their farm in southern Iraq. Don't ever come back, the man whispered tearfully
in his ear.

Al-Sawad, 24, came from a close-knit Shiite family. He considered the farm a
haven until the day he defied Saddam Hussein.

In the space of five years, he went from army deserter, to prisoner, to refugee,
losing close friends and relatives in the process.

Now Al-Sawad was a lonely immigrant. He had shed his gray robe in Saudi Arabia
for what he considered a more American outfit: a mauve T-shirt, gra y slacks and
blue sneakers.

Al-Sawad's English was too broken to explain where he needed to go. He looked
around the gate for a man from the resettlement agency.

Al-Sawad felt nervous. But he couldn't imagine anything worse than the five
years of horrific memories he brought with him.

That's why he came. To build a new life, to replace those pictures.

Paradise was a farm

The ancient village of Madinah lies west of the confluence of two great rivers -
the Tigris and the Euphrates in southern Iraq. Near the crossing, a tree
representing the Tree of Knowledge marks the purported Garden of Eden.

Al-Sawad describes his family's farm as paradise. The slow-moving Euphrates
River laps at the edge of its orchards. Date palms, fig trees and grapevines
flourish. The orchards thinned when Saddam drained the area's vast wetlands
after the Gulf War. Water in the river became too di rty to drink.

But Al-Sawad doesn't know post-Gulf War Iraq.

In his mind, the region remains lush. The Euphrates teems with fish. His father
builds fishing boats on the edge of the farm, just as his father and grandfather
did before him.

At age 18, Al-Sawad wanted to join his father full time after graduation. In
1989, he was almost there.

Then one winter day soldiers entered his school with a list.

Al-Sawad looked up from his algebra and rose from his chair. A smooth-faced
soldier told him to board a bus with the other male students. They would train
for the army.

Throughout the 1980s, Al-Sawad had seen many of his friends drafted, only to die
fighting. The Iran-Iraq war killed an estimated 1 million soldiers and ended in
a stalemate just a year earlier. Now Saddam was building the Republican Guard
for another endeavor: the invasion of Kuwait. Al-Sawad considered army duty
suicide and any operation of Saddam's immoral. He wanted to run.

Instead, he boarded the bus. For the next two months, he trained in cold weather
near Nasiriyah, learning to shoot. Fighting would mean death, he thought. He
returned to Madinah during a break and hid in the orchards. He did not report
back.

Army deserters were common in Madinah - a village about 80 miles northwest of
Basra. The largely Shiite population despised Saddam's government and frequently
fled from the Republican Guard. Al-Sawad's father sold them boats, which they
used to hide along the river. For several weeks, Ahmed Al-Sawad chose to hide on
his farm.

One day, a bearded man spotted him walking toward the river. You're supposed to
be in the army, said the man, a local Baath leader. Al-Sawad, now 19, froze.

Within an hour or two, a guard pushed him into a jail cell near the outskirts of
Basra.

Some days, rain and sewage turned the sunken floor to mud. The smell of human
filth drove some men crazy. On crowded days, weak ones died standing up.

To Al-Sawad, days there felt like years. To survive he had to remain strong. He
ate the foul-smelling soup and endured beatings. His only possession was a
soiled blanket that he wrapped around himself when the cold came.

But worse than the conditions was the uncertainty. Was his sentence two months
or 10 years? Or death? Al-Sawad tried, but he could not find a pattern in whom
guards picked to kill.

More than a year passed. One day, the guards become restless. A few hours later,
the remaining guard unlocked the door.

Go, he told the prisoners. Saddam is losing control.

U.S. troops had driven the Iraqi dictator out of Kuwait. Oil wells burned.
Saddam's control waned.

Al-Sawad walked into the midmorning air. His beard touched his chest, and he
hadn't bathed in 15 months. He needed to see his family. So he walked north.

Three days, two nights and approximately 100 miles later, his legs swelled to
double their size. Bridges had been destroyed, and he had no money for a ride.
But Al-Sawad kept walking toward Madinah.

A young boy on a bike spotted the exhausted man approaching the village . The
boy pedaled home and spread news that the missing man was alive.

Villagers crammed the streets, some with questions about their own missing sons,
brothers, husbands and fathers. They lifted Al-Sawad above their heads and
carried him home. His mother saw him and cried.

Husam Al-Sawad, 11, fought through the crowd to see his uncle's tired face and
swollen legs. The boy was 9 when his uncle disappeared. Ahmed Al-Sawad was
exhausted but looked at his nephew and managed to smile.

For days, Al-Sawad's family celebrated with feasts at their farm. But like any
celebration during that time, their party was short-lived.

"We need to leave"

In pockets across Iraq, rebellion was under way. Leaders from the United States
and the United Nations encouraged Iraqis to overthrow their leader.

Al-Sawad's family tore down Saddam's portrait beside their front door. Al-Sawad
headed into town. Clutching a machine gun, he fought with a band of rebels who
hated Saddam. He prowled the streets looking for Baathists. The boat builder's
son fired across the river, trying to keep soldiers from crossing.

For two weeks, his friend Adel Al-Mufarah fought too. Bullets whizzed by his
head. Al-Mufarah watched them riddle a friend who had dreams of becoming an
engineer.

Americans who encouraged the rebellions pulled out of the country. Iraqi tanks
rolled into Basra, followed by helicopters. And the massacres began.

One morning, Al-Mufarah awoke in his home in Madinah's outskirts and heard the
distant rumble of tanks. He ran to the Al-Sawad farm, also on the village
outskirts. Inside the house, Al-Sawad was eating fried eggs.

It's time to go - we need to leave, Al-Mufarah told his friend. But Al-Sawad was
reluctant.

We have no choice, Al-Mufarah prodded. Al-Sawad, too, heard the tanks. Staying
meant death.

What's going on? his mother asked. He left his eggs and called to his father.

I'm going to go, he told his parents. In a matter of minutes, Al-Sawad gave his
five brothers and sisters a tearful goodbye and handed them what little money he
had left.

His father pressed Islamic beads into his son's hands. He moved close to his
son's ear. Don't ever come back, he told him.

Al-Sawad and Al-Mufarah joined a mass exodus in March 1991. Tens of thousands of
Shiites and Kurds traveled to the Iraqi borders to escape mass executions. They
fled in battered taxis, in flatbed trucks with wheels missing, in vehicles with
whole families crammed inside. Al-Sawad and Al-Mufarah and many others had to
walk.

The two went for three days and two nights without food or water. They became
disoriented. Barely resting, they fought the temptation to turn around. When one
felt like giving up, the other urged him on. On the third day they heard a tank.
They hid behind a dune and Al-Sawad raised his head, terrified the tank belonged
to the Republican Guard.

It was American.

The two friends ran toward the tank, arms up in surrender. If you don't take us,
they pleaded, we'll be killed.

The U.S. military can only take military deserters, a soldier told them through
a Saudi translator. Al-Sawad and Al-Mufarah - who were wearing gray robes -
turned from the checkpoint.

Within several hours, they entered a small village. We're military, they told
people. They asked for uniforms.

One family had two extras, but they belonged to a tall, heavy man. Al-Sawad and
Al-Mufarah put them on. They rolled up the sleeves and legs. They walked back to
the checkpoint holding up their pants.

The two surrendered again. This time, it worked.

More than 30,000 Iraqi refugees filled the tents and mud brick shanties that
fanned across the Saudi Arabian desert. In some ways, the camp was like jail
again.

Al-Sawad longed for a trip to the nearby town of Rafha - any diversion from the
hot days and desolation of the refugee camp. But guards and barbed wire
prohibited such journeys. Saudi guards beat and tortured some Iraqis, human
rights groups reported.

At least, Al-Sawad thought, I can move freely. He spent his days playing soccer
and pingpong. He shared a tent and later a mud-brick dwelling with two
physicians and two engineers. They taught him basic English. Before long,
Al-Sawad knew the language well enough to teach it at the camp's community
center.

Al-Sawad's 15-year-old cousin lived there too, but he returned home under
Saddam's promise of amnesty. The promise proved false. Iraqi soldiers shot the
boy after he returned.

At times, Al-Sawad felt the temptation to return. But his father's words haunted
him.

Years passed. In 1993, during the Islamic holiday of Ramadan, a postcard arrived
- a picture of a sparkling city with an arch that glistened like gold. A friend
from the camp mailed it from his new home in St. Louis.

That moment, Al-Sawad decided he wanted to live there. In early 1994, officials
from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service visited the camp. Al-Sawad
viewed it as an opportunity. He talked to them about moving to the United
States.

In June, he boarded a bus bound for the Saudi capital of Riyadh, where an
airplane waited. Al-Sawad, now 24, envisioned a rich but violent country: fancy
cars and gunfights in bars.

You know, in the United States it's going to be a different life, a friend at
the camp told him. Just don't do bad things and no one tells you what to do.

Al-Sawad shed his gray robe for a T-shirt, slacks and running shoes. He left his
robe in Saudi Arabia. On the airplane, he spotted an old friend: Adel
Al-Mufarah. More than three years after crossing the desert, they were about to
cross an ocean.

Movie channels and Taco Bell

Al-Sawad was penniless and unemployed. But for the first time in his life, he
felt free.

The determination that kept him running from the Iraqi army and Saddam now had
him struggling to survive in a foreign country.

A man with the International Institute of St. Louis drove Al-Sawad from Lambert
Field to an apartment that he temporarily shared with a Nigerian. Then Al-Sawad
moved into his own place.

After three years without a phone, he called home. His mother hung up,
suspicious of a cruel joke. After another try, Al-Sawad convinced her it was
him.

One day his family called and confirmed one of Al-Sawad's fears. Baath officials
had arrested his father at the boat shop, because they couldn't find his son. At
age 60, he lacked the strength to endure jail. He died in the cell.

Al-Sawad wept.

Often at night, the bad dreams came. The theater in Al-Sawad's mind produced
terrifying scenes: Saddam holding a gun. Al-Sawad running from Saddam. Saddam
waiting for him at the family farm.

No matter how far Al-Sawad ran, Saddam found him.

Life in the United States was different than Al-Sawad expected. For one, the
Arch was stainless steel, not solid gold as it appeared in the postcard. The
countryside was tamer than in Western movies. After some c oaxing from friends,
he visited Fast Eddie's Bon-Air in Alton one day and discovered that barroom
gunslinging is mostly a Hollywood phenomenon.

Al-Sawad soaked up the language and culture. He shaved his beard. He dated
American women. He spent his nights watching movie channels and growing addicted
to Taco Bell and Red Lobster. After about six months spent working at a steel
plant, Al-Sawad saved enough money to buy an old car.

An Iranian mechanic showed him how to fix it up and offered Al-Sawad a job.

The years passed. Al-Sawad's hands became callused from working 12- and 14-hour
days. Eventually, he felt smarter than his boss about cars.

Al-Sawad wanted his own business. He longed for stability and independence. He
found a garage to rent in St. Charles and began playing around with different
names: Ahmed Auto Sales, Al-Sawad Auto Sales ...

Including his name in the title sounded pretentious, he thought.

What about A Auto Sales? a friend asked.

Every day, broken vehicles moved through the red brick A Auto Sales on North
Fourth Street, less than a mile from the Missouri River. Al-Sawad began buying
wrecked cars at auction, rebuilding and selling them for a profit.

Most of his employees were Iraqi immigrants. Like him, they were just trying to
survive.

But one summer day in 2001, Al-Sawad felt as if he were finally doing more than
just surviving. He moved out of his apartment and bought a one-story brick house
in the middle of St. Charles. I've arrived, he thought. I'm an American. The
next month, he bought his first BMW.

In January 2002, Al-Sawad became a U.S. citizen. Standing outside the federal
courthouse in downtown St. Louis, a friend snapped a picture of him smiling.
Then a security guard shooed them away. It became another me mory to replace the
horrors.

Al-Sawad, 33, keeps scrapbooks in his closet: photographs of white water rafting
trips, a journey up Pikes Peak with Al-Mufarah, who now lives in Denver, and
good times with friends that make up his American family. His nephew Husam
Al-Sawad escaped Iraq in 2000 and lives in Nashville, Tenn.

And finally, the nightmares have come to an end. Saddam no longer torments
Al-Sawad at night. His struggle to survive has given way to seeking new
opportunities. He's enlarging his customer base, buying fancy cars and working
through complicated relationships.

He shares his house with his girlfriend, Lisa Muckerman, her young son and their
16-month-old daughter, Emily. Al-Sawad had an Arabic name in mind for the girl,
but he lost that battle. Fresh dates in the kitchen remind him of home. There
are other reminders. As in the area outside Madinah, two great rivers converge
here.

Al-Sawad bought a satellite dish the day before the war started. He was
impatient for the fighting to begin, simply because he wanted Saddam's
government to crumble.

"It may be hard to see on TV, but better than him. Better than what he does,"
Al-Sawad said in his auto shop one day. "He hurt a lot of people. He kill a lot
of people, and there's nothing you can do."

Al-Sawad watches anxiously as events unfold in Iraq. He sees the unrest, the
looting, the discovery of mass graves, the killing of U.S. soldiers and Iraqi
civilians.

He's less concerned that U.S. soldiers find weapons of mass destruction than
rescue Iraqis from decades of oppression.

Al-Sawad wants to go back to Madinah. But only to visit. He will not live in
Iraq again, he says.

"I would never go back if you paid me millions of dollars. Not even now."

He likes freedom too much.

"That's why I cannot go home now. The system's different. It takes years for
people to learn and realize what freedom is."

===

Details for this story came from more than 10 hours of interviews with Ahmed
Al-Sawad of St. Charles; his nephew, Husam Al-Sawad of Nashville, Tenn.; friends
Adel Al-Mufarah of Denver and Glenn Hayes of St. Charles. Part of their accounts
were corroborated by photographs of the Rafha refugee camp and of the Al-Sawad
farm in Iraq. Other sources include officials with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the International Institute of St. Louis, and published
accounts in newspapers, wire services and reports from human rights groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Elisa Crouch:; E-mail: ecrouch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
636-255-7208

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color PHOTO by LARRY WILLIAMS / POST-DISPATCH - Ahmed
Al-Sawad, 33, works on a car in the auto shop he owns in downtown St. Charles.
Al-Sawad, who took up arms in the uprising against Saddam Hussein in 1991,
immigrated to the United States in 1994.; (1) PHOTO - Ahmed Al-Sawad (left) of
St. Charles and Adel Al-Mufarah of Denver on vacation in 2001 in Colorado. The
two grew up near the same village in Iraq. They fought in the uprising against
Saddam Hussein in 1991 and fled together when it failed. They arrived in the
United States in 1994.

TYPE: PROFILE; AHMED AL-SAWAD

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              167 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 6, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS EMBRACE U.S. VALUES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 375 words


I was surprised to read Mona Charen's June 30 analysis of Victor Davis Hanson's
new book, "Mexifornia," She suggests that Hanson should be cloned for his view
on Mexican immigration.

He has been cloned. He comes from a generation of California farmers who have a
legacy that dates back to the 1950s. His ancestry is that of farmers using
braceros from Mexico, who were exploited for their labor and were provided harsh
inhumane working and living conditions that still devastate so many Mexican farm
workers today.

Versions of this program continue to exist all over the United States, including
Illinois and Missouri.

It is understandable that Hanson feels that the "old assimilationist approach
worked better for immigrants and for society than the muliculturalist . . .
culture we now enjoy." It worked just fine for those farmers who financially
benefited from the sweat and suffering of Mexican immigrants (and others) for
years.

The "poor Mexicans" that Hanson speaks of have always embraced American culture
and language without any assistance from the farmers, who often were a barrier
to their learning.

History has shown that Mexicans have been loyal to the United States, serving in
the military and fighting for this country. Mexicans have been taxpaying
individuals who have helped the United States economy grow.

I am a symbol of everything that Hanson disparages in his book. I am the
daughter of a Mexican farm worker whose parents provided a strong work ethic and
an encouragement to learn two cultures and languages that have helped me develop
a healthy self-esteem, and become a successful American citizen. I consider
myself to be bicultural.

Fortunately, I had the opportunity to enrich my life and education by being
exposed to Latino studies and American history. I hold a graduate degree from
Washington University.

I was born and raised in what Hanson calls "Mexifornia," and wouldn't trade it
for the world.

What Hanson doesn't realize is that the integration and pride of both cultures,
history and language makes me a better person. It is Hanson who, unfortunately,
is underprivileged. It sounds like he is the one who has been "fed a diet of
resentment" and discrimination.

Rosio Gonzalez

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              168 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 10, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. EFFORT AIMS AT BEEFING UP PROSECUTION OF CHILD PREDATORS;
RECENT WEEKLONG SWEEP NETS 89 ALIENS CONVICTED OF SEX OFFENSES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal authorities are cracking down on child predators by pulling together
once-fragmented investigative and intelligence resources, Homeland Security
Secretary Tom Ridge said Wednesday.

The initiative is dubbed Operation Predator. It will target p ornographers,
child prostitution rings, Internet predators, immigrant smugglers and other
criminals.

"The protection of our most vulnerable citizens, our children, is a critical
component of our mission" at the new Homeland Security Department, Ridge said.
"Harming a child in any manner or form is a despicable, despicable thing."

In an initial weeklong sweep that ended June 30, some 89 foreigners were
arrested. They had been convicted of sex offenses but had evaded law enforcement
efforts to remove them from the country. In Chicago, 37 alien sex offenders were
arrested in the same week.

The department's Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement is leading the
initiative from its headquarters in Washington. The program includes:

* A single Web portal to access all publicly available state Megan's Law
databases.

* A national child victim identification system.

* A new alliance with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.

* A toll-free reporting number - 1-866-347-2423.

* A way to identify alien sex offender inmates before their release from prison.

The bureau will notify foreign governments of any aliens with a history of
sexual offenses being deported to their countries. The bureau also will seek
information from governments on anyone with a history of sexual offenses seeking
entry into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              169 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 6, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

CALIFORNIA LOST MORE PEOPLE THAN IT GAINED FROM OTHER STATES IN LATE '90S

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Although immigrants kept California's population rising, more people left the
state in the last half of the 1990s than moved in from other states, the Census
Bureau says. It was the first time that has ever happened.

Four reports being released today offered the most comprehensive look so far at
U.S. migration in 2000.

Only New York, which lost 874,000 more residents to other states than it took
in, had a bigger net decline than California, which lost 755,000. Illinois, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania also lost more than they gained.

In Illinois, 1,007,738 left the state and 665,122 entered. In Missouri, 473,369
people moved into the state and 427,316 moved out, a net gain of 46,053.

The retirement destination of Florida had the biggest net increase, with 607,000
more people coming in than leaving. Warm-weather states with fast-growing
economies in the late 1990s rounded out the top five: Georgia, North Carolina,
Arizona and Nevada.

William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution in W ashington, said
the California exodus could be a sign that residents were fed up with high
housing prices and sprawl.

Next-door Nevada was the place of choice for the largest number of exiting
Californians: 199,000 settled there.

Overall, California drew about 1.4 million residents from other states from 1995
to 2000 but lost 2.2 million. But spurred by immigration, California's
population rose 14 percent, or 4.1 million people, from 1990 to 2000, to almost
33.9 million. Its foreign-born population rose by more than one-third to almost
8.9 million.

The state lost more residents than it gained from other states for the first
time since the government started keeping track of domestic migration statistics
in 1940, said Jason Schachter, a Census Bureau analyst.

"California has been the recipient of much of the nation's immigration. The only
way you can balance that is by exporting people out of state," Myers said.
"These numbers should in no way be attributed as a setback to California."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              170 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 10, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

222 IMMIGRANTS IN NAVY ARE SWORN IN AS CITIZENS;
THEY APPLIED UNDER ORDER FROM PRESIDENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 346 words

DATELINE: NORFOLK, VA.


More than 200 U.S. Navy sailors, including many who served in the Iraq war, were
sworn in Friday as citizens of the country they defend.

The sailors had applied for U.S. citizenship under an executive order issued by
President George W. Bush last year. The order made immigrants serving in the
military since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks immediately eligible for
naturalization.

"When I look at you, I see myself," said Eduardo Aguirre, director of the Bureau
of Citizenship and Immigration Services, recalling how he came to the United
States as a 15-year-old Cuban refugee in search of a better life.

Aguirre administered an oath of allegiance to the 222 sailors during the
ceremony aboard the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt, docked at Norfolk Naval
Station.

Afterward, the sailors, in their dress white uniforms, waved American flags as
family members and friends cheered.

The new citizens hail from 51 countries, from Albania to Ukraine.

"I'm very happy to be an American," said Agbasi Ebuka, a 29-year-old petty
officer 3rd class from Nigeria. "America is the most free country in the whole
world. You have the freedom to live your life the way you want to."

Normally during peacetime, noncitizens in the military can apply for
naturalization after three years of service. Immigrants not in the military must
be legal residents for five years before they become eligible for
naturalization.

Nearly 9,000 members of the military have applied for citizenship since Oct. 1,
the start of the current federal fiscal year, said Russ Knocke, Aguirre's press
secretary. By comparison, 749 military members were naturalized in fiscal 2001
and 1,055 were naturalized in 2002, he said.

Many of the newly minted Americans, like 23-year-old Seaman John Lopez, who was
born in Cali, Colombia, said they wanted to become citizens to advance in their
military careers. Only citizens can be promoted to commissioned officers.

But Lopez said his desire for citizenship also was based on something simple but
important: "I wanted to be part of the United States."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Color Photo - Six of the more than 200
immigrant Navy sailors, including many who served in the Iraq war, are sworn in
as citizens Friday in Norfolk, Va.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              171 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             August 13, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 625 words


COLUMBIA

U.S. plans to step up training of troops

The United States will intensify its training of Colombian troops as rebels
continue attacking this American ally in the war against terrorism, the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said Tuesday.

Air Force Gen. Richard Myers came to Colombia to see the results of $3 billion
in mostly military aid Washington has spent during the past three years on Plan
Colombia - an initiative aimed at cutting cocaine production in Colombia and
fighting the rebels.

Myers met with President Alvaro Uribe, the ministers of defense and foreign
affairs, and top military officials in the presidential palace in Bogota.

MEXICO

12 are arrested in deaths of immigrants

Special agents have captured a dozen people accused of organizing a smuggling
operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died after being locked in a
tractor-trailer, the government announced Tuesday.

Interior Secretary Santiago Creel and Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la
Concha said officials have issued arrest warrants for 25 other suspects. "We
don't have to tell you the magnitude of the tragedy here," Creel said.

Seventeen people were found dead May 14 in and around a Houston-bound
tractor-trailer left near a truck stop in Victoria, Texas. Two more died later
and dozens of survivors fled into nearby fields. The truck carried more than 70
migrants from Mexico, Central America and the Dominican Republic.

SERBIA-MONTENEGRO

Government seeks control over Kosovo

The Serbian government said Tuesday it wants to retake control of Kosovo but
pledged to give it "substantial autonomy." It said U.N. officials failed to
establish democracy in Kosovo.

The government laid out its hopes of regaining authority in the south Serbian
province in a document that is Belgrade's first comprehensive statement on its
policy on Kosovo since former President Slobodan Milosevic was ousted from power
in 2000.

Belgrade lost authority over Kosovo in 1999, when NATO launched 78 days of
airstrikes against Serb troops to force them out of the province. Since then,
the United Nations, along with NATO peacekeepers, have been running the
province.

ARGENTINA

Thousands protest 1980s amnesty laws

Thousands of marchers in Buenos Aires demanded Tuesday that Congress overturn a
pair of amnesty laws from the 1980s that ended the prosecution of human rights
abuses dating to the past dictatorship.

Leftist militants and human rights activists waved banners and beat drums,
demanding action by the House of Deputies. Key lawmakers said Tuesday afternoon
that the lower House of Deputies appeared to be headed toward a full vote. If
passed by the House, the measure also requires majority support in the Senate.

At issue is the fate of Argentina's "Full Stop" and "Due Obedience" laws,
enacted in 1986 and 1987, respectively, effectively ending human rights trials
during the period following the dictatorship. Some 9,000 people were officially
reported as dead or missing after the 1976-1983 dictatorship, but human rights
groups estimated the number could be as high as 30,000.

RUSSIA

Monument is unveiled for Kursk sailors

Friends and relatives of many of the 118 sailors killed in the sinking of the
Kursk nuclear submarine gathered at a St. Petersburg cemetery to unveil a
monument Tuesday on the disaster's third anniversary.

The monument is a black granite cube carved with waves and meant to symbolize
the ocean depths. It is topped with a storm petrel - a small bird that
symbolizes trouble.

An explosion shook the Kursk during exercises on Aug. 12, 2000, sending the
vessel to the Barents Sea floor. All 118 men on board were killed. Thirty-two of
the sailors are buried at St. Petersburg's Serafimov cemetery.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD FOCUS

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              172 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 19, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HEARTBREAK FOR LIBERIAN HOMELAND IS PLIGHT OF MANY REFUGEES;
IMMIGRANTS LEFT THE FIGHTING BEHIND BUT STILL CARRY FEARS FOR LOVED ONES;
SOME IN AMERICA SAY THEY AREN'T TAKING SIDES, THEY JUST WANT PEACE

BYLINE: Martin Finucane The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Jamie Musa is an old woman who lost her business, her country and four of her
children. When she tells her story, it only takes a minute for thoughts of
Liberia to bring tears streaming from her eyes.

Musa says she simply wants an end to the violence. "I'm on nobody's side," she
says.

Musa, 77, is one of tens of thousands of Liberian refugees in the United States
anxiously watching the news from their home country. They're hoping that a
lasting peace will come - and that their loved ones will be safe.

Many of the Liberians are refugees themselves from earlier waves of violence.
They are phoning family members back home, scrambling to send money and
organizing shipments of relief supplies.

President Charles Taylor went into exile last week, and West African soldiers
and U.S. Marines have arrived to keep the peace. Liberia's government and two
rebel movements signed a power-sharing deal on Monday.

The United States has played only a limited role in peacekeeping, despite pleas
from Liberians that America has a special relationship with their country.
Liberia was founded by freed slaves from America in the 19th century.

The federal government estimates that around 39,000 Liberian-born people lived
in the United States in 2000. But activists say the number is much larger, with
hundreds of thousands settling in pockets around the country, in such states as
Rhode Island, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.

The Liberian Immigration National Advocacy Commission in Landover, Md., is
pressing for changes to U.S. immigration laws to help Liberians who have fled
their country. The group's Mohamedu Jones said the Census Bureau's estimate was
too low. But he puts the number below the 200,000 figure advanced by some other
activists.

In the Washington area, the funeral of a prominent Liberian woman recently drew
about 2,000 people, Jones said. He also said so many of his countrymen were in
the United States that some Liberian high schools hold their annual reunions in
America.

"Praying for peace"

Activists say most Liberians in the United States are like Musa. They simply
want peace.

"We are praying for peace and to go back home someday," said Rufus Berry II,
interim president of the Liberian Community Association of No rthern California.
"All the Liberians here, they are tired of the killing."

In Massachusetts, there's a twist. Ousted President Taylor lived there as a
young man in the 1970s, getting a business degree at a Boston-area college,
working as an activist and helping to found the state's Liberian community
organization.

Some activists remember him. They also remember high hopes that he would bring
needed change to their homeland.

But now leaders of the state's Liberians say they were disappointed in Taylor
and agreed with his stepping down. Taylor escaped from a Massachusetts jail in
1994 and has been indicted on war crimes charges.

Sam Stevquoah of the Liberian Community Association of Massachusetts said: "We
felt that for once here was somebody who was educated, who had lived and
experienced democracy. ... He went back, and it's like everything went through
the window."

Liberians have an abiding respect for the United States, and many have pursued a
college education in this country, activists say.

The aim: tranquillity

Activists pointed to such connections as they argued for the United States to
take a greater role in ending the turmoil.

"I think American support has to be visible. It has to be committed. It has to
be felt. Right now, it's not," said Jones, of the Liberian advocacy group.

Musa came to the United States in 1989 at the beginning of the civil unrest
after losing her business as a merchant in Monrovia and four of her 13 children.
Now she tries to keep in touch with her children and her husband, who are
refugees in Guinea - and to send back money for food.

Speaking through a translator, she says she is worried about conditions at the
refugee camp. She doesn't understand how they can live there, and she is worried
that her husband is old and sick. She says she wants adequate food and water for
Liberians and wants children to be able to go to school.

"She sides with nobody," her translator says. "She wants tranquillity."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD FOCUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Jamie Musa, 77, is one of thousands
of Liberian refugees in the United States. She just wants an end to the
violence, she says. (* Note: The FIVE STAR caption, page A6, was: Jamie Musa,
77, is one of thousands of Liberian refugees in the United States. "I'm on
nobody's side," she says.)

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              173 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 21, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS HELP EACH OTHER LEARN ABOUT U.S.;
IRANIAN AND SOMALIAN HAVE LITTLE BUT FAITH IN COMMON, BUT TOGETHER THEY ARE
MAKING THEIR WAY IN AMERICA

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 879 words


Ali Karimpour and Omar Osman are an odd couple. Last month they came to live in
St. Louis, from countries half a world away.

Karimpour is from Iran, and Osman is from Somalia. Because they are bachelors
and have no family here, Catholic Charities Refugee Services assigned them to
live together in an apartment in St. Louis' Carondelet neighborhood.

Karimpour, 28, is an introvert who thinks before he speaks.

Osman, 22, is an extrovert who blurts out his thoughts.

Karimpour's background is urban. Osman's is rural. The only language they share
is rudimentary English. Their initial reactions, even to their living
arrangement, were opposites.

"I love single," said Karimpour.

"I don't like to be alone," said Osman. "If you are alone, you are more worried.
If you stay alone, you can die."

The men share the Sunni Muslim faith, and they pray together. Despite their
differences, buoyed by the prospect of new lives, they are forging a firm
friendship and helping each other adjust to a new country.

"I notice them trying to help one another," said Regina Pierson, the case worker
who is helping them settle in this country. "Their personalities are very
different. They take their strengths and help one another."

Past lives

Karimpour arrived in St. Louis on July 3. He flew from Turkey to New York to St.
Louis. He is a Kurd, originally from Iran. The Kurds are an ethnic group in
Iraq, Iran, Turkey and Syria. Many of them want a country of their own.

In Iran, Karimpour was active in a political party. His family was told that if
he stayed in his homeland, he would be jailed. So he fled to Turkey, lived there
about three years and earned his living as a rug weaver and mender. He lived in
an apartment with five other men and waited for a chance to emigrate.

Osman arrived in St. Louis on July 16. The flight from Kenya stretched over two
days and included stops in Brussels and Atlanta. Osman is a Somali Bantu. Slave
traders brought the Bantus to Somalia in the 19th century, and many Somalis
still consider Bantus second-class citizens.

The Somali civil war was particularly brutal for the Bantus. In 1993, troops
came to Osman's village and killed his mother and father. He was 12. He ran
first to a neighbor and then to a refugee camp in Kenya. An uncle looked after
Osman as best he could. But food was scarce, and gangs often raided the camp and
sometimes killed people for what food there was.

The apartment

Pierson said that putting the two men together was a bit of an experiment. This
is the first time she can remember having two bachelors from different countries
to resettle at the same time. The arrangement cuts down on expenses and provides
them with companionship and practice in speaking English. The men will be
roommates for at least four months. Pierson met the men at the airport and is
shepherding them through classes in English and through job interviews.

The apartment is a modest one-bedroom affair. The men use what could be a dining
room for the second bedroom. They drew straws to see who got the real bedroom
with a door that closes. Osman won. Karimpour ended up in the doorless dining
room. Pierson is making him a curtain, for additional privacy.

The living room is furnished with comfortable castoff couches, chairs and a
24-inch television. The television was a gift from their landlord and is an aid
to learning English.

One of the first tasks they tackled together was grocery shopping. Pi erson took
them to the Schnucks on Loughborough Avenue. The only foods Osman recognized in
what seemed to be a whole new country of foods were bananas, tea and chicken.

So Osman formulated his position on food in America. "If he (Karimpour) says
it's good, I eat it," Osman said. He was munching on an apricot Danish and
drinking a soda.

Osman also relies on Karimpour's expertise at the laundry.

Osman said that he thought he knew how to wash clothes when he came to America.
He pantomimed scrubbing clothes clean by hand. Karimpour taught him to put
quarters in a slot and let a machine do the work.

A new language

When the men talk about their adventures in a new land, they search for words
and finish each other's sentences. Osman's native language is Maymay. Karimpour
speaks Kurdish, Turkish and Farsi.

Karimpour carries three dictionaries to help them wade through conversations
with people they meet. He says repeatedly how thankful he is that Osman studied
English in the refugee camp. Even so, Osman admits to feeling a little lost
every time they leave the apartment.

They love to tell people about learning to ride the bus. When they first began
attending English classes at the International Institute of St. Louis on Grand
Boulevard, they knew where to catch the bus and where to get off the bus. But
they did not know how to stop the bus.

So they learned, through a mixture of watching the other passengers and asking
questions, that they could halt the bus by pulling a cord near the ceiling. The
cord rings a bell that alerts the driver to their stop.

As they tell the story, they laugh and pull imaginary bus cords.

"You stop it, by pulling the cord," they say with delight.

They seem to see the adventure as symbolic.

Said Osman, "Anything is possible here."

Karimpour agrees.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by J.B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Ali Karimpour, 28,
checks on the goat meat while his roommate Omar Osman, 22, makes the salad as
the two men prepare dinner in their small apartment in St. Louis last week. The
two bachelors arrived recently in this country. Catholic Charities Refugee
Services set them up in an apartment together.

TYPE: PROFILE; ALI KARIMPOUR; OMAR OSMAN; IMMIGRANT ROOMMATES

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              174 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 21, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRANT HERE AWAITS DEPORTATION AND WONDERS: WHAT WENT WRONG?

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1270 words


* The Egyptian man, conned by a lawyer in New York and sandbagged by misplaced
paperwork and red tape, fights to stay with his family in Florissant.

Walid Ghounem shakes his head in disbelief as he reviews the mistakes, miscues
and misunderstandings that any day now will force him to live a half-world away
from his wife and three small children.

* The lawyer who took advantage of him shortly after he arrived in New York from
Egypt nine years ago.

* The misplaced paperwork that might have aided his hopes of becoming a
permanent U.S. resident.

* The immigration officials who seem indifferent to his plight even though an
appeals court has yet to rule on his plea to stay in America.

"I just want a fair hearing," said Ghounem (pronounced go-neem). "I need my life
back."

The Florissant resident awaits deportation, despite being married to an
American, usually the gold standard for acceptance among immigrants seeking
government approval to become permanent U.S. residents.

Ghounem, 30, came to the United States in July 1994 on a six-month tourist visa.
Like many who arrive here, he hoped to stay. He met a man who said he was a
lawyer who offered to handle his residency case for $2,000.

Ghounem earned $4.50 an hour stocking shelves and making deliveries for a deli
in Queens, in New York City. He worked 12 hours a day, often seven days a week.

"That would be a dream for anybody who comes to the U.S. -- to live here
legally," he said. "I told him as long as I would be legal, the money was no
matter."

Ghounem, whose English wasn't very good, signed some papers. He accompanied the
lawyer to the immigration service offices.

In August 1995, he received a one-year work permit.

"After I got that card, I didn't feel any suspicions," he said.

The lawyer later told him that to get a green card, granting him permanent
resident status, he would have to pay $5,000 in back taxes.

He paid the lawyer, and the lawyer told him the green card would come in the
mail. Ghounem never saw the lawyer again. When he went looking, he found his
office vacant, his cell phone disconnected.

About three months later, immigration agents appeared at Ghounem's apartment and
asked him about the work permit and his passport. He spent 2 1/2 hours the next
day telling his story and writing a statement.

"They told me I was a victim of a scam," he said.

The lawyer had submitted a fake marriage certificate to immigration officials.

The agents allowed Ghounem to keep his work permit, but they kept his passport.

When he asked, he said the agents told him the matter wouldn't harm his chances
of becoming a permanent resident.

"I was surprised I was not deported at that point," he said. "They were
understanding about the whole situation."

By the beginning of 1996, Ghounem had changed jobs, and met and fallen for a
flight attendant who lived nearby. Fearing he could be deported, they married
Sept. 8, 1996.

Ghounem then began anew the process of applying for a green card on the basis of
his marriage to an American.

In February 1997, the couple moved to the St. Louis area to find better-paying
jobs. Ghounem went to work as a warehouse supervisor in Hazel wood. He also
asked that his immigration file be transferred from New York to St. Louis. After
several months of not hearing anything, he went to the immigration office and
was told the file had been lost, and that he would have to file a new petition.

Meanwhile, Ghounem kept his work permit valid and paid his taxes. In February
2000, his lawyer received a letter saying the government intended to deny his
petition based on the fraudulent documents.

On Jan. 5, 2001, the local immigration director denied Ghounem's request. He
appealed - and was denied again on Jan. 25 last year. He was given until Feb. 25
last year to voluntarily depart the United States or appear before an
immigration judge for deportation proceedings.

But five days after being given that February deadline, immigration officials
arrested Ghounem at work.

Taken away in cuffs

Ghounem was handcuffed and driven to the downtown immigration office.

There, two agents told him that he was in the country illegally and would have
to leave.

He spent what he called "the longest night in my whole life," in the Jennings
jail.

By then, Ghounem had hired Gene McNary as his lawyer. McNary had led the
Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1989 to 1993. (The agency was folded
into the Department of Homeland Security this year and is now known as the
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.)

For months, Ghounem waited for his chance to tell his story to a judge.

On June 29 last year Ghounem received a letter at his home saying he failed to
appear in immigration court three days earlier and, as a result, had been
ordered to leave the country. Both Ghounem and McNary said they were never
notified of the hearing.

"There was every reason for him to go to court," McNary said.

The immigration judge rejected McNary's request to reopen the case. So too did
the Board of Immigration Appeals. McNary then filed motions in the 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals. The court denied a request to delay the deportation
and has yet to rule on whether to reopen the case.

McNary thinks his client's chances of prevailing with the appeals court are
"better than 50-50."

"What harm is it to give a guy a hearing?" he said. "We've made a convincing
case that neither of us got notice. That's basic in this country that people get
to be heard. Even if they find against him, he should get his day in court."

Immigration officials declined to comment, saying they could not discuss a
specific case.

Last week, Ghounem arrived as ordered at the St. Louis immigration office for a
flight to Egypt. His family accompanied him.

But his travel documents weren't in order, and he was allowed to return to home.
Now he waits for a phone call telling him his time is up.

"I go to bed thinking, 'Is this the last night in my home with my kids in my
arms?'" he said.

For now, the couple and their children cling to what could be their last few
hours together.

His 6-year-old son, Aly, cries at night at the prospect of his father leaving.
Ghounem hopes his daughters, Nadia, 3, and Lyla, 1, are too young to understand.

"I'm dying on the inside"

His wife, Anna, said she tries to be strong for the children.

"But it's all false, because I'm dying on the inside," she said.

She described her husband as loving, a caring father and a hard worker willing
to do jobs many Americans would consider below them.

Anna got laid off in December. The family went on welfare in June. They receive
$552 a month in food stamps, an amount that will shrink when Walid is gone. With
money so tight, there's little chance the family will be able to visit him soon
in Egypt. He is not willing to disrupt their lives by having them move with him,
even if they could afford it. He is left with the prospect of trying to help
raise his children over the phone.

McNary said he understood the difficult task the government has in protecting
the nation from terrorists. But he also is concerned about what he considers
innocent victims in the war on terrorism.

"Some light shed on the case may have some beneficial effects making Immigration
and Homeland Security mindful that we've still got some rules in this country
and they need not just be looking up all the Arabs and sending them back,"
McNary said. "There's some good people out there that should not have their
rights taken away and subjected to something this country has always abhorred."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: * Note: A shorter version of this report ran in the ILLINOIS FIVE STAR,
page A12.; Reporter Phillip O'Connor: E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - Walid Ghounem,
an Egyptian man who expects to be deported any day, holds son Aly, 6, next to
daughters Lyla, 1, and Nadia, 3, in their Florissant home last week. "My son has
been crying at night," Ghounem, 30, said. "He is afraid he will never see his
dad again."; (* Note: The ILLINOIS FIVE STAR ran this on page A12 as: Photo
headshot - Ghounem, Came to U.S. 9 years ago)

TYPE: PROFILE; WALID GHOUNEM; DEPORTATION ORDER

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              175 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 14, 2003 Sunday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FREE CLINIC REACHES OUT TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Tina Hesman Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 970 words


* La Clinica calls itself a "culturally competent health care center." Its
volunteer staff serves about 250 people a week.

The Rev. Dr. William Chignoli checks his watch as the stuffy waiting room at La
Clinica Latino Community Health Center fills with people. It's only 6:30 p.m.
The real crowd won't show up for another hour, when people get off work and can
bring their families to the doctor.

The clinic's doors open each morning at 9 and close each evening at 10. If the
long hours weren't enough of a tip that this place is different, the fliers in
Spanish, Vietnamese, Bosnian and English proclaiming La Clinica a "culturally
competent health care center" might do the trick.

La Clinica bills itself as a free clinic serving uninsured immigrants, migrant
workers and refugees. The clinic is situated in the basement of Scruggs Memorial
United Methodist Church at 3646 Fairview Avenue in the city's South Grand
neighborhood. It treats about 250 people each week. Many of the clients are
Hispanic, but the clinic also has patients from Somalia, Eritrea, Russia,
Vietnam, Bosnia, Kosovo and Albania.

All come seeking health care, but Chignoli says the clinic's real mission is to
heal the cultural rifts that may tear apart immigrant families and separate them
from the rest of American society.

"When poor people come, they have more than one complaint. They want to talk,"
Chignoli said.

Patients come in with real illnesses, but often want to discuss problems with
their children, spouses, jobs or housing, he said. Most of those concerns cannot
be addressed in a standard eight-minute office visit, Chignoli said. At La
Clinica, doctors routinely spend half an hour or more talking with patients, he
said.

That time, like every piece of equipment at the clinic, is donated. The staff
includes 22 doctors, 10 nurses, 10 dentists, a mental health provider, two
nutritionists, optometry students from the University of Missouri at St. Louis
and medical students from Washington University and St. Louis University.

All are volunteers. Most speak Spanish and sometimes other languages. Only five
support staffers are paid employees.

Most of the money to run the clinic comes from religious organizations and
private individuals. The clinic doesn't accept Medicaid or Medicare. It can't.
There is no billing department to process the payments, and the clinic is not
recognized by the federal health care assistance programs, Chignoli said.

That may change soon, when the clinic moves to a new facility about a mile away
at 5411-19 Gravois Avenue. There, no steps will impede handicap access and the
clinic will be on secular ground - two of the requirements to be accepted by the
federal programs.

Church members have donated time and material to renovate the building, a former
liquor store, but the new facility is just an empty shell - "still a dream,"
Chignoli says. He said he hopes to open at the new location in the spring,
increasing the medical services at the clinic, and making way for expanded
social services at the church.

For now, patients continue to stream into the church basement for medical care.
Each of the whitewashed exam rooms serve multiple purposes. In one room, a
psychiatrist interviews patients at a desk set against one white wall. Later, a
gynecologist uses the exam table in the room. Once a month, the UMSL optometry
students shove the exam table out of the way and set up charts and other
equipment to administer eye exams. An allergist uses the room monthly to treat
patients with asthma, allergies and lung disease.

"We are poor, but creative. Everything has wheels," Chignoli said.

Despite the creativity, the clinic is unable to provide emergency services or
care for cancer patients or others requiring specialized and often expensive
care. Staffers help patients apply for temporary Medicaid to pay for those types
of health care. And other government-sponsored clinics, such as St. Louis
ConnectCare, sometimes provide the services La Clinica cannot.

"Here we try to exercise other kinds of medicine - more time with the patient,
more questions for the patient, more patience with the patient," Chignoli said.

All health care centers are supposed to provide culturally sensitive medical
care, said Glendia Hatton, chief executive of ConnectCare. "However, I would
venture to say that La Clinica does it better than most," she said.

Chignoli and his staff do everything possible to meet the medical needs of their
clients, Hatton said. But La Clinica does not stop there. The volunteers try to
meet every type of need or help clients find the resources to do it on their
own, Hatton said.

It's the cultural sensitivity that helps doctors at La Clinica diagnose their
patients' real problems, Chignoli said.

Children from immigrant families are often branded as having attention deficit
disorder, ADD, when their minds wander in school.

"It's not ADD. It's a cultural difference, a language difference," Chignoli
said.

Chignoli is from Argentina. He founded La Clinica in 1993 while a student at
Eden Theological Seminary. Now an ordained Methodist minister, Chignoli said
he's found an unconventional way to look after his flock.

"I understand that my call is not a traditional ministry. My call is to provide
medical services," he said.

* * * * *

Benefit celebration

What: Dinner and Mariachi concert to celebrate La Clinica Latino Community
Health Center's 10th anniversary. The Mariachi Tolteca of Mexico, featuring
violinist Manuel Ramos of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, will perform.

When: 6:30 to 10 p.m. Friday.

Where: St. Louis Room on the third floor of the Busch Student Center at St.
Louis University, 221 North Grand Boulevard.

Cost: $30. Proceeds benefit La Clinica.

Reservations: Call Lisa at 314-664-5565 Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tina Hesman; E-mail: thesman@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8325

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photo by J.B. FORBES /POST-DISPATCH - Dr. David Newby
examines Maczul Rodriguez, 5, at La Clinica Latino Community Health Center last
week. Maczul had fallen down a flight of stairs, cutting his chin and fracturing
his wrist. His mother, Zulma Morales (right), had taken him to the emergency
room after the fall and was following up at the clinic. Newby said he has been
volunteering at the clinic on Wednesday nights for five years.; (2) Photo by
J.B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Carlos De La Pena (left), clinical manager for La
Clinica Latino Community Health Center, talks last week with Dr. Catherine
Peterson about what medications are available at the clinic. It was Peterson's
first day as a volunteer. Behind them is Yaseen Zia, 22, a recent graduate from
Washington University who is volunteering at the clinic for a year.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              176 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 15, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

NEEDED: A HEART

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 444 words


IMMIGRATION

SOMEWHERE WITHIN THE COLD bureaucracy that is the Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services, there should be one employee designated to have a heart.
Whenever the wheels of mindless regulation, operated by a soulless slave to
procedure and steered with indifference, get ready to grind up some bewildered
immigrant, the one guy with a heart would yell, "Stop!"

Walid Ghounem, his American wife and three little American children could have
used such an agent. Instead, Mr. Ghounem was deported to his native Egypt last
week. Anna, his wife of seven years, has gone on welfare. Aly, 6, Naida, 3, and
baby Lyla will miss their father.

If you look at the facts coldly -- very coldly -- you can see the bureacracy's
point of view. The world is full of poor people who want to come to America.
Even if we wanted to, and many Americans don't, we can't take them all. So we
pay the Bureau of Citizenship, formerly known as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, to guard the door. Open it just a crack, we tell the
bureau, admit a few of the best, and shout "No!" to the rest of the huddled
masses yearning to breathe free. It's not a job for people with warm and fuzzy
feelings. On top of that, there is Sept. 11. Add to that the suspicion that Mr.
Ghounem gamed the system. He came here on a six-month tourist visa in 1994, and
started angling to stay. A man who said he was a lawyer offered to help Mr.
Ghounem gain residency. Bureau officials say the man submitted bogus documents,
including a fake marriage certificate. Mr. Ghounem says he didn't know, but you
can't blame the government for being suspicious.

In 1996, he married Anna, and they started having children. Marrying a citizen
is normally a ticket to stay. But the bureau lost Mr. Ghounem's file when he
moved to St. Louis, which isn't unusual at an agency known for Soviet-style
customer service. Then the bureau denied his petition, citing the forged
documents.

Mr. Ghounem asked for a hearing, and he apparently got one. But he says he was
never told of the hearing, so he didn't show up. He learned of it three days
later in an official letter telling him to leave the country.

Mr. Ghounem is not a criminal. He worked in a warehouse to support his wife and
children. Unless the decision is reversed, he will have to wait 10 years before
applying to return to America. Three American children will grow up without
their father and a wife will go a decade without her husband. Or, an American
family can banish itself to poverty in Egypt.

Children need their father. The Bureau of Citizenship could save a family with a
flick of a pen. If it only had a heart.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              177 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 19, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

MEXICAN ID CARDS CAN STILL BE USED TO OPEN U.S. BANK ACCOUNTS;
TREASURY DEPT. DROPS PROPOSAL TO CHANGE RULES

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Treasury Department said Thursday it will leave in place rules that allow
financial institutions to accept Mexican identification cards to open bank
accounts.

The decision, which extends to all foreign-issued identification, is considered
a victory for immigration and Latino groups that have protested efforts to
prohibit use of the identification card. They argued that the change was as
anti-immigrant and anti-Hispanic. Financial institutions, too, had opposed any
change in the rule.

Opponents say the cards are too prone to fraud and pose a risk to homeland
security. Immigration opponents also have said the cards act, in effect, as
amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Called a matricula consular, the card is issued by Mexico's consulates to its
citizens living abroad and shows the date of birth, a current photograph and the
address of the card holder. Many of the cards have been issued to Mexicans in
the United States, including those in the country illegally.

Cardholders have used them to open bank accounts, turn on utilities, check out
library books and apply for drivers licenses or other basic services in some
communities and states.

The Treasury Department decided that under the existing rules, financial
institutions bear the risk of failing to have an effective policy on what types
of identification to accept. That risk acts as incentive for the institutions to
adopt policies that will stem fraud but still gives them flexibility to accept
identification most used in their communities.

The department still would hold financial institutions accountable for the
effectiveness of their customer identification programs.

The department's decision comes after Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge told
The Associated Press that banks and communities that accept the card for
identification do so "at their peril" because the cards are not fraud-proof.

Although Mexico is improving the card's security, the FBI reported this summer
that the cards remain vulnerable to fraud.

But Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, said the
Treasury decision is the right one because "there never was a valid argument to
deny" acceptance of the cards.

"This is a triple win for rational thought. This is a win for the matricula, a
win for the economy and a win for our close ally Mexico," said Bartlett, whose
organization represents the 100 largest financial services companies.

The Mexican Embassy in Washington could not be reached for comment. Many
Washington offices were closed Thursday because of Hurricane Isabel.

Under pressure from Congress and the Justice Department, the Treasury Department
decided to review recently implemented rules for financial institutions on
identification they accept from people opening accounts. The rules were mandated
by the U.S. Patriot Act, passed after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
The Mexican IDs still are under review by a White House-led panel.

Mark Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said the decision would
strengthen calls to ban or restrict acceptance of the card. "It allows a de
facto creeping amnesty to take place without the White House having to sign its
name to it," said Krikorian, whose center supports restricting immigration.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              178 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 21, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

MAN'S MISSTEPS MAY LEAD TO BOOT

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1608 words


* The native German with six years in the Army Reserves, a budding career and an
impending marriage was stunned to face deportation proceedings after pleading
guilty to a drug charge in a case involving his roommate.

The last time Colin Brown saw his son as a free man, he told him how proud he
was of his accomplishments.

"I said 'You're living the life. You've got there,'" Colin Brown recalled. "He
slapped me on the back and he said, 'Dad, I owe it all to you.'"

The two stood in a Las Vegas casino, celebrating their version of an immigrant
family's dream.

Today, five weeks after their conversation, Florian Brown enters his second
month in the Montgomery County jail, held because of his guilty plea to a
marijuana charge, waiting to be deported to his native Germany, a country he
last lived in at age 5.

His supporters say he is a victim of a crime he didn't commit, bad legal advice
and tougher immigration laws that no longer tolerate missteps by foreigners
living in the United States. Even missteps made by those like Florian Brown, an
American in almost every way, including six years in the Army Reserves -- two on
active duty.

"It is very hard for me to believe that I was willing to fight and die for this
country, and after one mistake, this country is done with me," Brown wrote in a
letter from jail to his parents last week.

In a phone interview, his father lamented for his son.

"He has it all going for him," Colin Brown said. "He has an incredible career in
front of him. To nip that in the bud is almost a crime."

At age 28, Florian Brown was a hot property in television, sought for his skills
at capturing the sounds of live sporting events. Well-paid by networks such as
ESPN, ABC and CBS, his assignments took him to events around the world. He
followed in the footsteps of his English father, who became a top sound man and
made a legion of friends in the sports and entertainment broadcast world after
immigrating to the United States with his German wife, Hille, and young Florian
in 1980. The family never sought U.S. citizenship but lived in the country as
permanent residents.

Brown had just bought a time-share condominium on the Las Vegas strip. He owned
a home in Maryland Heights and was engaged to be married.

His legal problems started on Oct. 19, 2001, when he came home from an
out-of-town job covering a National Hockey League game.

He found his house ransacked and his roommate missing.

The roommate, Christian Mollin, and Brown first met in 1993 when both attended
college nursing classes as part of their Army Reserve training.

Mollin lived in the basement of the Maryland Heights house. He had recently lost
several jobs, and Brown said he was having trouble making ends meet.

Brown called Todd Ryan, an attorney and friend of the roommates. Ryan told Brown
that Mollin was on the other line. Police arrested Mollin the day before for
selling an ounce of marijuana to an informer at the house. The lawyer told Brown
that police also seized other evidence, including 18 small marijuana plants and
drug paraphernalia.

Ryan and Brown agreed to talk later.

A day or so after, all three met. Brown asked Ryan whether authorities wanted a
statement from him.

In a court hearing earlier this month, Ryan testified that he called the
Maryland Heights police detective handling the case.

The lawyer asked the detective whether he wanted to talk to Brown.

According to the testimony, the detective responded that if Brown wanted to come
in and implicate himself, they would not seek to seize his house or prosecute to
the full extent of the law.

In his letter from jail, Brown admits to knowing about the pot growing in a
locked basement storeroom but said he "foolishly turned a blind eye."

Brown's name was not mentioned in the police report, and only Mollin, not Brown,
had been under surveillance by Maryland Heights police, his new lawyers say.

Ryan offered to have both men make statements if the detective agreed to go easy
on them, his lawyers say. Ryan could not be reached for comment. Mollin declined
to discuss the case.

Detained at airport

Brown said he understood that if he cooperated, police would be lenient and
suggest probation and a suspended imposition of sentence. That meant his
criminal record would be cleared once he completed probation.

Brown said he believed that because of the suspended sentence, his plea would
have no effect on his immigration status and that he would not be deported.
Brown said he saw the plea as a way to move on.

At the police station, Brown signed a statement saying he was partly responsible
for the drugs found in the house.

Both pleaded guilty to manufacturing and selling a controlled substance, a
felony. A judge sentenced Brown to 40 days in a work-release facility, five
years' probation, drug counseling and agreed to the suspended imposition of the
sentence.

Almost two years passed, and for Brown, the incident was a fading memory.

Then, in July, Brown returned from covering the annual running of the bulls in
Pamplona, Spain, and was detained by immigration officials at a New Jersey
airport. They told him that his sentence in the drug case appeared on his
passenger information screen and that he should report to the St. Louis
immigration office with his court records.

When he arrived at the St. Louis office on Aug. 13, immigration agents t ook him
into custody, shackled him and transported him to the Montgomery County jail.

Only then did he learn that federal law doesn't recognize suspended imposition
of sentences by state courts. That meant the federal government considers him an
aggravated felon.

Under changes in immigration laws made in 1996, resident aliens charged with an
aggravated felony are subject to deportation.

"A horrible situation"

His lawyers are now trying two tactics: overturning his conviction or blocking
his deportation.

On the criminal side, they hope to persuade St. Louis County Circuit Judge John
Ross to reconsider Brown's earlier guilty plea in the drug case.

Ross ruled against a motion earlier this month seeking to have the original plea
thrown out.

In a brief filed Wednesday, Brown's lawyers argue that the law requires that a
hearing be held in cases where a lawyer represents more than one client to show
no conflicts of interest exist. Clients also must be advised of their rights to
seek independent counsel. The judge ordered no such hearing in Brown's case,
they said.

"I'm trying to correct a horrible situation that should have been avoided by the
prior counsel," said Bret Rich, one of Brown's new lawyers.

Until Wednesday, Brown sat in legal limbo for more than a month, uncharged by
the federal government and ineligible for bail. Normally, charges are filed
within 72 hours of a person being detained.

Immigration investigators told Brown's lawyers they were waiting for clearance
to start formal deportation proceedings, pending a review because of his
military background.

Brown and his lawyers expect to appear before an immigration judge for a
deportation hearing within the next month.

One of Brown's immigration attorneys, Tim Wichmer, believes the case could set a
precedent.

The law in some states requires that defendants pleading guilty in felony cases
must be told of the direct consequences of their plea. In Missouri, that doesn't
include how a guilty plea might affect someone's immigration status.

But Wichmer believes that tighter immigration laws enacted over the last six
years eliminated court discretion in such cases, almost always making
deportation a direct consequence.

"Now it's automatic," he said. "Florian never would have pleaded guilty if he
had known that."

Fiancee stands by him

In the meantime, the attorneys are encouraging Brown to go ahead with his
marriage while in custody. That might make him eligible to have his deportation
waived.

"I love him. He's the guy for me even with all this," said his fiancee,
Elizabeth Stitt, 24.

The two met six years ago through mutual friends. This week marks their second
anniversary as a couple. They've lived together for a year and got engaged at
Christmas.

"If he gets deported, I'm going to go with him," Stitt said

They won't be alone. Florian's parents also plan to eventually follow their son
if he is deported. The family never sought U.S. citizenship, partly out of
convenience, partly out of procrastination.

"We just never got around to it," Colin Brown said. "If Flo gets out of this
mess, we're going to run down there and get citizenship."

While lawyers search for a way to free their client, Brown is doing well in
custody.

Family members say they talk almost every other day by phone. Stitt makes the
140-mile round trip twice each weekend for 30-minute visits. He is popular with
both guards and fellow prisoners, serving as a trusty and helping some inmates
with their court cases.

He remains confident his military service will help him. His family is prepared
for the worst.

Industry colleagues have launched a letter-writing campaign hoping to sway the
courts and have tried to get the networks to pick up the story. A Web site
detailing his case is in the works, and friends also established a fund to help
pay his bills.

Colin Brown, 57, said he is still proud of his son. He's not as proud of the
shrinking tolerance his adopted country is showing toward those who arrive
seeking a better life.

"There doesn't seem to be any compassion since 9-11," Brown said. "We had no
idea that even if you just make one mistake, you could be out like this. We're
on the run. That's the feeling I get. We're all on the run."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo - Elizabeth Stitt and her fiance, Florian Brown,
who could face deportation to Germany after pleading guilty to a drug charge.
"If he gets deported, I'm going to go with him," Stitt said. The two met six
years ago through mutual friends. This week marks their second anniversary as a
couple.; They've lived together for a year and got engaged at Christmas.; (2)
Photo by KAREN ELSHOUT/POST-DISPATCH - Elizabeth Stitt, the fiancee of Florian
Brown, stands in her home in Maryland Heights last week. Brown faces deportation
proceedings after pleading guilty to a drug charge. If he is deported, Stitt
says she will go with him to Germany. "I don't know what we'll do. We don't
speak German."

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              179 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 29, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FOR REFUGEES FROM COLOMBIA, ST. LOUIS IS A HAVEN;
CIVIL WAR, ATTACK ON FATHER LED TO FLIGHT TO COSTA RICA, THEN UNITED STATES

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words


"Seguro" - that is the Spanish word for safe. Fernando and Ingrid Tabima say
"seguro" frequently, like a mantra, as they talk about their new life in St.
Louis, safe from the civil war that had threatened Fernando Tabima's life in
Colombia.

"Here I can give my family stability and hope," said Fernando Tabima, 39.

"Here I find peace and safety; my kids can grow, and I am not scared," said
Ingrid Tabima, 33.

The Tabima family - Fernando, Ingrid and their children, Andres, 12, and Maria
Camila, 7 months - are one of six families with a total of 22 people, all
refugees from Colombia, that the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis is helping to settle in St. Louis.

The Tabimas arrived in St. Louis on Aug. 20. They told their story in an
interview through interpreter Maria Mullis, their case worker at the
International Institute.

The U.S. Department of State selected St. Louis as a place to settle Colombian
refugees because there already were Colombian immigrants in the area who were
willing to help newcomers, says Ann Rynearson, senior vice president for culture
and community at the International Institute. Rynearson says the Institute does
not expect a flood of refugees from Colombia, as was the case with Bosnians.

The Tabimas' odyssey began two years ago in Cali, Colombia. Cali is a city about
the size of the metropolitan St. Louis area. Cali is two hours from the Pacific
Ocean and southwest of Bogota. Fernando Tabima worked as combination bodyguard
and assistant for one of the executives in Cali's electric company.

Colombia has been torn by civil war for 38 years. The Associated Press says
about 3,500 people, most of them civilians, are killed in the fighting each
year.

Fernando Tabima said leftist guerrillas had tried to kidnap him. He fled but was
shot in the leg as he escaped.

He told the Colombian government that he and his family needed to leave
Colombia. The government placed the family in nearby Costa Rica.

Fernando Tabima said the only jobs he could find were odd jobs such as cutting
grass, washing cars and taking care of dogs. There were times when the family
didn't have enough to eat. So they signed up with an international agency that
resettles refugees in Canada, Australia or the United States.

Thirty days before the Tabimas departed, they learned that they would be going
to the United States. Two days before leaving Costa Rica, they heard that their
new home would be in a city they had never heard of: St. Louis.

On the way, on the plane, Ingrid Tabima cried. She worried about where her
family would sleep.

"I was scared," she said. "I didn't speak English. I didn't know the city." But
her fears lifted at the airport when she saw Mullis holding a sign that said in
Spanish: "Welcome Tabima Family." Mullis spoke Spanish. Mullis was from
Colombia.

Ingrid Tabima felt safe. Mullis and the International Institute will be a
combination parent and guardian angel for the Tabima family for the next year or
so, setting up an apartment, offering English lessons and helping them to find
jobs.

On that first night, Mullis, 42, took the Tabimas to their new home in the Shaw
neighborhood.

The apartment has high ceilings and hardwood floors. It is simply furnished with
hand-me-down couches and a chair or two.

The Tabimas call it grand and have made it their own. Pictures of Andres with
his grandparents, Ingrid Tabima's parents, sit on the mantel.

Fernando Tabima has found a job as a banquet waiter at the Adam's Mark Hotel.
Andres is a seventh-grader at the St. Louis Public Schools' Fanning Community
Education Center. He says six of his schoolmates are Colombian or Mexican. They
speak English and Spanish and help him.

A big grin lights up his face when he talks about school. His new school has
computers. His former schools did not. Andres says he loves computers,
mathematics and lunch.

"We are happy here," Ingrid Tabima said. "People here are so kind. The
International Institute is wonderful."

Added Fernando Tabima: "Downtown is beautiful. The Arch is magnificent."

They even like the green street-name signs, which Fernando Tabima said made it
easy to know where you were.

Their plans and dreams are sprouting. First they are going to learn to speak
English. Then Fernando Tabima, who is trained as a mechanic, hopes to find a job
in the automotive field. Ingrid Tabima wants to find work as an administrative
assistant. Andres plans to play soccer and basketball.

Money will be tight for a while. The International Institute, through a contract
with the State Department, will spend $1,600 to resettle them. That money must
stretch to pay for rent, home furnishings, transportation and food until the
family qualifies for food stamps.

The Tabimas are in a federal program that rewards them for finding employment
quickly and staying employed. If Fernando Tabima remains in his job for four
months, the family will get $2,200, which they hope to spend on a car. The
Tabimas also must come up with enough money, almost $2,000, to pay for their air
fare to St. Louis.

Still, the family is jubilant. Fernando Tabima explained, "We have opportunities
Colombia didn't give us."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by LAURIE SKRIVAN/POST-DISPATCH - Maria Camila
Tabima, 7 months, laughs in the arms of her mother, Ingrid Tabima, as Maria's
father, Fernando Tabima, looks on. The Tabimas arrived here Aug. 20 after
fleeing from Colombia.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              180 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 30, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

METROPOLITAN AREA DIGEST

SECTION: METRO; Metropolitan Area Digest Column; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1062 words


LOCAL BRIEFS

ST. LOUIS

Third member of family gets defibrillator

Mary Hill, the woman who had a defibrillator implanted in her chest Monday to
correct a hereditary condition, was reported in fair condition at St. Louis
University Hospital.

Hill, 55, of Collinsville, is the third member of her family to have the
procedure. Last month, Hill's son, Travis, 25, of Columbia, Mo., and her
daughter, Shalon Gardner, 22, of O'Fallon, Ill. had similar implants.

The defibrillators are attached to the heart to stabilize erratic rhythms.

Dr. Preben Bjerregaard, of St. Louis University School of Medicine, determined
that the Hills shared a hereditary condition involving a short interval in the
heart's electrical impulses. He believes they may be susceptible to sudden
cardiac death without the defibrillators.

ST. LOUIS

Freedom Riders meet with Bosnian immigrants

Two buses carrying more than 100 immigrants and their supporters left St. Louis
on Monday to finish their cross-country campaign to overhaul immigration laws.

Participants of The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride met with Bosnian immigrants
at a linen service company and went door-to-door in the city to encourage voter
registration and involvement in immigration rights issues before leaving St.
Louis.

The Freedom Ride campaign, inspired by the 1960s civil rights movement, seeks
the legalization of undocumented workers.

The two buses will join up with the 16 other Freedom Ride buses in Washington,
where participants will lobby Congress later this week.

ST. LOUIS

SLU will host meeting on homeland security

The first of a series of town hall meetings on homeland security around the
nation will be held in St. Louis from noon to 2 p.m. Oct. 8 at St. Louis
University. It will focus on medical and health issues, a topic chosen because
of St. Louis' strength in these areas. Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge
will lead the session.

Sam Simon, director of public safety for St. Louis, will be a panelist. "We're
hoping to learn something from the secretary, and we'd like to let him know how
things are going here from a state and city perspective," said Simon.

Other panelists are Dr. Karen Webb, chief medical officer at St. Louis
University; St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay; and Tim Daniel, Missouri's homeland
security director.

LAW & ORDER

FLORISSANT

Smoke from fire kills man in his apartment

A man died of smoke inhalation early Monday in a fire that broke out in the
guest bedroom of his apartment in Florissant. Brian Piece, 32, of the 2400 block
of Montezuma Drive, in the River Chase Apartments, was pronounced dead at the
scene at 3:25 a.m. Authorities said he apparently was asleep when he was
overcome by smoke from a fire that began in another bedroom, where a friend was
staying.

The friend escaped by jumping from the third-floor window of the burning
bedroom. Florissant police said they believed the fire began in an electrical
connection in the second bedroom.

ST. LOUIS COUNTY

Family suffers poisoning from carbon monoxide

A woman and two children were rescued from their home Monday after they became
disoriented by carbon monoxide from a malfunctioning furnace that had been
lighted the night before.

Officer Mason Keller, spokesman for St. Louis County police, said that rescuers
responding to a call from the home, in the 9700 block of Lorna Lane, found
family members were confused.

Moline Fire Protection District firefighters traced the problem to inadequate
ventilation for the furnace. The three residents, ages 49, 16 and 14, were
treated at Christian Hospital Northeast and released.

ST. CHARLES

Registered sex offender is sought in rape, police say

St. Charles police were searching Monday for a registered sex offender who they
say has raped again.

Police are looking for Leonard G. Ainley, 32, of the 2200 block of Campus Drive,
in connection with a rape Sunday. Ainley was released from prison in Farmington,
Mo., in July after completing a 12-year sentence for rape.

About 5:30 p.m. Sunday, police say, Ainley went to the home of an acquaintance
who lives in the Cedarbrook Apartments. The man was not at home, so he asked his
wife if he could use her phone. The woman, 24, let him in and once inside,
police say, he put a knife to her throat and threatened to harm her two
children, ages 5 and 6, if she did not comply. Police said Ainley raped the
woman and then fled.

Anyone with information about Ainley is asked to call the St. Charles police at
636-949-3300.

CRYSTAL CITY

Teen dies from injuries suffered in crash

A teenager from Crystal City died Monday from injuries suffered Sunday in a
two-car accident in Jefferson County.

Alycia N. Zebrowski, 18, died about 6 a.m. Monday at St. John's Mercy Medical
Center. She was a senior at Crystal City High School.

According to the Missouri Highway Patrol, Zebrowski was a passenger in a car
driven by Cagney Anne McWilliams, 17, of Imperial, that was struck as it crossed
Highway A at Old Highway A in Festus. The car was hit on the passenger side by a
vehicle driven by John Allen Alsup, 65, of Richwoods, Mo.

POTOSI, Mo.

Inmate is fatally beaten at prison, official says

An inmate from St. Louis was found beaten to death at Missouri's
maximum-security prison in Potosi, and his cellmate is suspected, prison
Superintendent Don Roper said Monday.

Lamont Daugherty, 29, was discovered face-down in his cell at 10:37 p.m. Sunday
as guards were performing a head count, Roper said.

Daugherty and his cellmate, whose name was not released, had been transferred to
Potosi from other state facilities after assaulting other inmates. Daugherty was
imprisoned July 30, 2002, on four counts of armed criminal action and one count
of unlawful use of a weapon.

MONROE COUNTY

2 are killed, 6 injured in crash near Red Bud

Two people were killed and six people injured in a crash Monday involving at
least two vehicles on Illinois Route 159 near Red Bud, authorities said.

Dead are Jamie Cox, 16, of Red Bud, and Stephanie Camp, 44, of Jackson, Mo.

Illinois State Police Sgt. Joe Leach said Jamie was a passenger in a Ford
Mustang that was headed north on Route 159 about 4:45 p.m. when the car struck a
minivan head-on.

Camp was a passenger in the minivan driven by her sister, Christine Trieweiler,
43, also of Jackson. Trieweiler's two sons, 4 and 5, were injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by TRACY BOULIAN/POST-DISPATCH - Employees of the Sheraton
Westport hotel compete in a bed relay race in a "Guest Bed Olympics" held Monday
outside the Sheraton St. Louis City Center hotel, at 400 South 14th Street near
the Savvis Center. Teams from three Sheraton hotels took part in bed races,
speed bed making, bed obstacle courses and bed 'n' basketball competitions. The
winning team, Sheraton Westport, donated their bed and bedding to the Ronald
McDonald House.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              181 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   October 12, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

CENSUS FINDS FOREIGN LANGUAGES MORE PREVALENT IN U.S. HOMES

BYLINE: Genaro C. Armas The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly one in five Americans speaks a language other than English at home, the
Census Bureau says. Most speak Spanish, followed by Chinese, with Russian rising
fast.

Some 47 million Americans 5 and older used a language other than English in
2000, the bureau said. That translates into the nearly one in five, compared
with roughly one in seven 10 years earlier.

There also were more people considered "linguistically isolated" because of
limited English, a situation that some analysts say can prevent people from
assimilating fully into American society and hinder activities such as grocery
shopping or communicating with police or fire officials.

The Spanish-speaking population rose by 62 percent over the period to 28.1
million; slightly more than half also reported speaking English "very well."

The numbers are a further reflection of the surge in immigration since 1990. The
influx helped make Hispanics the largest minority group, surpassing blacks.

California, New Mexico and Texas had the highest percentages of residents who
did not speak English at home, but the greatest increase during the decade
occurred in states that experienced explosive Hispanic immigration: Nevada,
Georgia and North Carolina.

The trend has had vast ripple effects across American culture.

Many school districts are scrambling to find bilingual instructors to teach an
influx of immigrant students. America Online launched its "AOL Latino" service
this month, targeting homes where Spanish is mostly or exclusively spoken.

For the first time, the Census Bureau printed out questionnaires in 2000 in
languages other than English: Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog (the main native
language of the Philippines), Vietnamese and Korean.

Marisa Demeo, regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund in Washington, said governments have a legal obligation to help
those who don't speak English well.

Such obligations, she said, "have been there for a long time. It's just that the
demand hasn't been as great as it has been the last few years."

Data in the census report come from responses to the 2000 census long form
survey distributed to about one in six households. The question asked whether a
person spoke a language other than English at home, and if so, it then asked to
gauge how well that person spoke English.

The proportion of the population 5 and older in 2000 who spoke English less than
"very well" was 8 percent, up from 6 percent in 1990 and 5 percent in 1980.

The bureau found about 11.9 million people lived in linguistically isolated
homes, meaning nobody in the home 14 or older knew English "very well." That was
up 54 percent from 1990.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICGraphic / Chart - Other tongues
The top 10 languages other than English most frequently spoken at home in the
United States, and the number of people 5 and older who speak those languages,
according to the 2000 census:
Language Number

Spanish    28,101,052
Chinese    2,022,143
French      1,643,838
German     1,382,613
Tagalog    1,224,241
Vietnamese 1,009,627
Italian    1,008,370
Korean       894,063
Russian      706,242
Polish       667,414
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              182 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   October 12, 2003 Sunday Three Star Edition

U.S. CRACKS DOWN ON VISA LOTTERY WEB SITES;
FTC ACCUSES OPERATORS OF SCAMMING FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Federal Trade Commission has accused the operators of eight Web sites of
scamming foreigners trying to enter a lottery for about 50,000 immigrant visas
to the United States.

The agency contended the operators misled consumers about the services t he
sites provided and suggested associations with the federal government that were
nonexistent.

"These bogus operators not only picked consumers' pockets, they may have nixed
their victims' only opportunity to enter this year's diversity visa lottery,"
Howard Beales, director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said
Thursday.

The commission said it had filed a civil complaint in federal court against John
Romano and Hoda Nofal of Global Web Solutions Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The
court issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting the defendants from
making any misrepresentations on their Web sites and freezing their assets.

Reilly Dolan, assistant director for enforcement in the FTC's consumer
protection bureau, said the agency was tipped off to the sites by complaints
from victims.

Dolan said the commission does not know how many people may have been scammed.
He said the Web sites had made about $3 million in sales.

The Internet sites, some of them in Italian and Japanese, offered foreigners
help registering for the State Department's visa lottery program, which gives
immigrants a chance to apply for a permanent visa or green card.

In addition to allegedly trying to pass themselves off as linked to the
government, the FTC claims, the Web sites also offered applications for the
lottery to foreigners who weren't eligible for the program. The sites charged
fees ranging from $40 to $250.

The government does not charge a fee to enter the lottery, which is open to
foreigners in countries with low rates of immigration to the United States.

The program receives about 8 million applications a year and issues about 50,000
visas, the state department said.

Romano and Nofal could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              183 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 13, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

POLICE, FIRE AGENCIES HAVE FEW BILINGUAL SPEAKERS

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim Of The Post-Dispatch Doug Moore Of The Post-Dispatch
Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1128 words


* Officials acknowledge the shortage but say they are using other tactics to
handle calls by a growing number of immigrants who speak little or no English.

St. Louis-area police and fire departments each have only a handful of bilingual
employees on staff, and almost none who handle 911 calls, despite serving a
growing community of immigrants and refugees whose primary language is something
other than English.

Over the past decade, several thousand Bosnians, Vietnamese and Mexican natives
have moved into St. Louis neighborhoods patrolled by a primarily English-only
police department. Only two of the city's 1,450 officers can speak
Serbo-Croatian. One is fluent in Vietnamese, another in Lao. Several can speak
Spanish.

Of its 911 dispatchers, only one is bilingual, but police spokesman Richard
Wilkes did not know in what language.

The St. Louis County police department also has a handful of bilingual
employees, mainly Spanish speakers, but none are 911 dispatchers.

A spokesman for the St. Charles County sheriff's office said the county hasn't
needed to have translators on standby, although there has been an increase in
Spanish speakers in the region. The Madison County sheriff's office agreed.

"We have some basic resources and references that we can get through a
conversation. Spanish in particular. Other languages we haven't really seen any
need to have any translators on standby," said Madison County sheriff's Lt. Eric
Decker.

Repeated calls to the St. Clair County sheriff's office were not returned.

Sanela Konjevic, 24, is one of two officers in St. Louis who speak
Serbo-Croatian. She graduated from the city's Police Academy in May last ye ar
and was assigned to a precinct with a large number of Bosnian immigrants.
Konjevic's captain recently restricted her from serving as an interpreter on
cases other than her own. Until then, she had been pulled into cases ranging
from peace disturbances to sexual assaults.

"The boss had to put the clamps down because we could have used her 24 hours a
day," said St. Louis police Officer Barry LaLumandier, the department's liaison
to new Americans. He works out of the International Institute, which aids
immigrants and helps resettle refugees. "We had to slow down and give her an
opportunity to be a police officer."

And so, the area's emergency responders must rely on other tools to help
communicate with its non-English speaking community.

That includes a manual carried by Fire Department paramedics that offers simple
translations to help assess a patient's symptoms. City police officers may use a
flash card booklet that illustrates various types of crimes and accidents. The
booklets have been so useful that police in Seattle and Denver have asked for
copies, LaLumandier said.

The St. Louis Police Department has tried to tap into the growing international
community to find recruits for its police academy, LaLumandier said. However, a
police officer must be a U.S. citizen, and it often takes years for an immigrant
to gain citizenship.

The department also encourages its officers to take foreign language classes by
offering to help pay for them, said St. Louis Police Chief Joe Mokwa.

"The St. Louis Police Department is aware and proactively trying to prepare for
the continual evolution of a more diverse community here, and it's a challenge,"
he said. "It's not so much that we've encountered problems now, but we can look
to the future and know what this community is going to look like, and it's going
to be a mosaic of different ethnicities that we need to be prepared for."

Ann Rynearson, senior vice president for culture and community at the
International Institute, credits the Police Department for taking steps to reach
out to immigrants, such as placing officers like LaLumandier at its center.

Having more bilingual police officers would help, she said, but it wouldn't
necessarily provide a quick-fix answer to the language problem. Pockets of
Bosnians, Vietnamese, Chinese and other immigrants are not always concentrated
in a single area, she said.

Thousands struggle

The U.S. Census Bureau reported last week that nearly one in five Americans
speaks a language other than English at home. The most common language
nationally was Spanish, followed by Chinese, with Russian quickly rising.

The bureau also reported that more people were considered "linguistically
isolated," or had at least some difficulty with English. At least 4,100 people
in St. Louis fall into that category, according to census figures. In St. Louis
County, there are nearly 5,000.

Spanish is the most common foreign language spoken in the St. Louis area, as
well as in St. Clair County. In St. Louis, Serbo-Croatian is the next most
common language, followed by Vietnamese. In St. Louis County, it is German,
Chinese and Serbo-Croatian.

The police departments in St. Louis and St. Louis County have access to a
"language line" service that provides interpreters. A 911 operator using the
service, for example, would call a special number, identify himself and the
language needed. An interpreter would then tap into the line, often within
seconds, for a three-way conversation.

Usually, however, a dispatcher will simply send a police car to the location of
a caller who does not say anything when calling 911.

"It might not even be a police issue - they might need the ambulance or the fire
department," said Konjevic, who worked as a dispatcher for more than a year
before she joined the academy. "Well, if we can't understand, we're just going
to send the police first and then figure out what's going on from there."

In St. Louis, all Fire Department ambulances carry a manual with simple
questions and answers written in more than 20 languages to help assess a
patient's symptoms. The manuals went on the ambulances about two years ago in
response to the influx of immigrants in the city.

The department has "a number" of bilingual employees but doesn't keep track of
how many, said spokeswoman Kim Bacon.

"One of the first things this fire chief did was to implement a program that
created fire safety information, and dispersed literature in multilanguage. We
have the ability to give fire safety information in several other languages."

James Shrewsbury, president of the St. Louis Board of Alderman, has proposed a
measure that would provide cash awards or other incentives for employees fluent
in a foreign language and who use the skill as part of their jobs.

The skills of city employees must become more diversified, he said, and offering
an incentive to use or learn language skills is a logical step in reaching out
to a changing population. Shrewsbury is due to meet Tuesday with the Civil
Service Commission to discuss the proposal.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: * Note: Re the eighth paragraph, the FIVE STAR edition ran: Sanela
Konjevic ... Until then, she had been pulled into cases ranging from peace
disturbances to sexual assaults, serving as an interpreter.; Reporter Eun-Kyung
Kim; E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8116

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC(1) Post-Dispatch Color Graphic/chart - Languages spoken
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
Here's a look at the top 3 languages other than English spoken in metro area
households. (Clustered bar charts)

ST. CLAIR COUNTY
185,127 total households
Spanish: 3,716
German: 1,354
Tagalog: 359

ST. CHARLES COUNTY
201,779 total households
Spanish: 3,355
German: 1,147
French: 701

ST. LOUIS COUNTY
760,365 total households
Spanish: 12,269
German: 5,073
Chinese: 4,711

ST. LOUIS CITY
258,689 total households

Spanish:        5,847
Serbo-Croatian: 3,659
Vietnamese:     2,185

(2) Post-Dispatch Color Graphic/illustration - Communication tool
Source: St. Louis Police Department
The St. Louis Police Dept. with help from the International Institute put
together a booklet in 1997 to help officers communicated with non-English
speakers. Here are some pages from the booklet:
(What kind of crime? Assault, Armed Robbery, Purse Snatching)
(Who did it? How many people? Female, Male; Short, Average, Tall; Thin, Medium,
Heavy; Young, Adult, Old)
(Describe the subject's hair style - Bald, Partly Bald, Long, Medium/Short,
Straight, Curly, natural Afro; Hair Color - Brown, Blond, Black, Gray, Red,
White)

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              184 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             October 15, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HOLOCAUST, CIVIL WAR, IMMIGRANTS CREATE TENSION INVOLVING CHILDREN

BYLINE: Sue Bradford Edwards Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 793 words


Tension abounds in the novels offered to young readers this fall season, from
fiction to nonfiction, realistic novel to fantasy.

Jerry Spinelli's "Milkweed" (Knopf, 224 pages, $15.95) stands out among
Holocaust novels, focusing on a Gypsy boy abandoned too young to know his name.
He finds a place among a thieving band of orphaned Jewish boys as well as the
family of a girl to whom he gives food. A touchingly realistic novel for readers
10 and up.

Another story of unwilling migration comes in "Maggie's Door" (Wendy Lamb Books,
160 pages, $15.95), which continues the story begun in "Nory Ryan's Song."
Separated from her family, Nory struggles to make the ship to her sister's home
in far-off Brooklyn even as she wonders what befell her friend Sean Red Mallon,
with whom she entrusted her little brother Patch. Artfully crafted, readers 8 to
12 will be drawn into the drama of Irish immigration as portrayed by author
Patricia Reilly Giff.

A willing migrant, Hannah expects excitement and adventure when she arrives in
London "At the Sign of the Sugared Plum" (Bloomsbury, 176 pages, $16.95) to help
in her sister's sweet shop. Instead, she finds the plague. She only begins to
worry when plague victims are discovered a few streets from the shop. Love and
fear combine in this novel by Mary Hooper, which ends on an upbeat note, lifting
readers 9 to 12 from London's disease-riddled streets.

A plague of violence terrorizes all concerned in "Guerrilla Season" (Farrar
Straus, & Giroux, 336 pages, $18). In spite of his mother's Union loyalties,
Matt's sympathies lie with the Confederacy and his best friend, Jesse James. But
the war tests these loyalties as he witnesses men from both sides lay waste to
the land and the people of western Missouri. Pat Hughes has created a must-read
historical novel for readers 12 and up interested in the Civil War or Jesse
James.

Tottie, too, must rethink what she believes when she answers the door to find
"Not Quite a Stranger" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 192 pages, $16) on the porch.
Tottie and Zack tell their stories in alternating chapters as author Colby
Rodowsky weaves loss and discovery into a mature novel for ages 10 and up.

Another story of self-examination comes in Jeanette Ingold's "Mountain Solo"
(Harcourt, 224 pages, $17). When Tess flubs her solo with a world-acclaimed
orchestra, she flees New York and her mother to return to her Montana home. But
her father now comes with a new wife and daughter.This story is sure to
captivate readers 12 and older struggling amid parental expectations.

Expectations abound in Carolyn Mackler's "The Earth, My Butt, and Other Big
Round Things" (Candlewick Press, 246 pages, $15.99). Virginia's plus-size
physique is matched only by her plus-size inferiority complex, which is fueled,
in turn, by her callous and perfect-seeming family. But when a crisis shatters
this perfect image, she comes into her own in a big way. Young-adult readers
will love this fun, funny story even as it deals with serious issues of
self-torture and body image.

For a fanciful story, fans 10 and up of Artemis Fowl should read Jonathan
Stroud's "The Amulet of Samarkand" (Miramax Books/Hyperion Press, 464 pages,
$17.95). Nathaniel, a young magician's apprentice, conjures up a demon beyond
his control. But why? Nathaniel, with well-developed notions of right and wrong,
bears little resemblance to Fowl. That position goes to the demon, Bartimaeus,
who spends his time in a magic-rich, modern London vexing Nathaniel and every
other magician he encounters.

Animal fantasy is the order in Kate DiCamillo's "The Tale of Despereaux"
(Candlewick Press, 272 pages, $17.99). It's not easy being a young mouse in love
with a princess. For this crime, Desperaux is banished to the castle dungeon to
meet his end among the rats. But when he discovers a plot against the princess,
Despereaux battles his way back upstairs in a tale of hope and friendship. Some
readers, ages 7 to 12, may be put off by the Victorian style that addresses the
reader, but for fans of Lemony Snicket, it will be familiar.

Another animal fantasy is Dick King-Smith's "The Nine Lives of Aristotle"
(Candlewick Press, 77 pages, $14.99). This adventuresome kitten works through
eight of his nine lives with disturbing speed - falling down a chimney, out of a
tree, into a stream, and more. This is for readers ages 4 to 8.

For anyone mad for mummies or dinosaurs, "Dinosaur Mummies: Beyond Bare-Bone
Fossils" (Darby Creek Publishing, 48 pages, $17.95) is a must. Author Kelly
Milner Halls introduces readers 10 and older to the world of fossilized mummies
- how they are formed, what is preserved and what scientists are discovering
from them.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Sue Bradford Edwards is a St. Louis writer.

TYPE: REVIEW - BOOK; "MILKWEED""MAGGIE'S DOOR""AT THE SIGN OF THE SUGARED
PLUM""GUERRILLA SEASON""NOT QUITE A STRANGER""MOUNTAIN SOLO""THE EARTH, MY BUTT,
AND OTHER BIG ROUND THINGS""THE AMULET OF SAMARKAND""THE TALE OF DESPEREAUX""THE
NINE LIVES OF ARISTOTLE""DINOSAUR MUMMIES: BEYOND BARE-BONE FOSSILS"

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              185 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 20, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

TIME FOR AMNESTY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 469 words


IMMIGRATION

THERE IS IN AMERICA a downtrodden group of 7 million people to whom the
blessings of freedom and liberty do not apply. They dare not call the police
when they're robbed. Their bosses can cheat them, and they'll never complain.

They are, of course, illegal immigrants. More than 5.2 million of them are
Mexicans and Central Americans, by government estimates. They broke American law
to get here, which can't be condoned. But they came for the same reason that
most of our own ancestors did -- for a better life for their families. And
they're not going away.

That's why it's time to consider another broad amnesty for illegal immigrants
who are here today, work steadily, pay taxes and are not criminals. We don't
want to perpetuate an underclass subject to e xploitation and afraid of the
police.

The last mass amnesty was in 1987. It did no harm and a lot of good. Now,
sentiment is growing for a new one -- at least for farmworkers. A bipartisan
group of congressmen and senators, supported by labor and farm o rganizations,
last month proposed an amnesty for about 500,000 farmworkers here illegally.
Those who qualify would get permanent residency, and an eventual chance at
citizenship. To sweeten the deal for farmers, the law would freeze some wage
requirements and make it easier to import Mexican farmworkers temporarily for a
10-month season.

The bill has a good chance of passage in the Senate, although it may hit snags
in the House. President George W. Bush, who took office promising better
relations with Mexico, may well sign it.

There is a reasonable argument against amnesty. It rewards people who sneaked
across the border, and might encourage more to do so. The United States can't
take all the people who want to come. An $8-an-hour American janitor would lose
if we opened the gates to Mexicans willing to work for $5.25.

But the chance of a third amnesty -- perhaps in another 16 years -- isn't going
to make much difference to the men and women huddling at the border. Their
concern is more immediate: feeding their families now.

Nothing will halt the flow. Tall fences and more Border Patrol agents have
slowed it, and driven illegals farther into the desert. Migrants are now dying
in the desert at a rate of one a day. They still keep coming.

An amnesty now potentially could affect 7 million illegals (a 2000 estimate from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service) -- equal to 2.5 percent of the U.S.
population. The 22,000 in Missouri equal less than half of 1 percent of all
Missourians. The 432,000 in Illinois are about 3.5 percent of the state. Not all
would qualify for amnesty.

This nation was founded on the principle of human equality. It offends that
principle to keep people living in the shadows, working in sweatshops and in
fear.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              186 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 2, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

NO LONGER ALONE

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 734 words


* Programs offer a lifeline for older refugees adrift in new culture, isolated
by language

Crnalic Enis wouldn't dream of missing Tuesdays at Tower Grove Park. There, he
mingles among other older Bosnian refugees, drinks coffee, plays bingo and talks
about "old people problems," all while speaking freely in his native tongue.

Enis, 63, moved to St. Louis nearly six years ago from Prisedor, Bosnia. He
found navigating U.S. life isolating, awkward and intimidating, especially in an
unfamiliar language. But these gatherings, he said, have helped him eat better,
sleep sounder and feel less nervous.

"It's one kind of therapy for the soul," the former tailor said through a
translator.

The Elderlink program run by the International Institute helps refugees 60 or
older emerge from their secluded lifestyles into a setting filled with others
who know about growing old in a foreign country where they must start over
financially and socially. Many also are battling post-traumatic stress.

The elderly often are considered a household's decision-makers in foreign
cultures, said Swapna Kommidi, coordinator of the Elderlink program. But once
they arrive in the United States, they lose that status because of their
inability to assimilate and speak English. They also tend to feel like a
financial burden on their children and grandchildren, who often are in a rush to
resettle.

"What it does to the seniors is it creates a loss of position in the family, and
there have been instances where they feel just like a piece of furniture in the
house," Kommidi said.

On Friday mornings, the Vietnamese Elderlink program gathers at the Vietnamese
Educational and Cultural Center. The men read Vietnamese newspapers or play "co
tuong," Chinese chess. Meanwhile, the women play cards or take a quick trip to a
nearby Asian market. Sometimes, they talk about food and which stores have
cheaper groceries or better sales.

Nga Vu, 75, lives by herself in St. Louis. She says the gatherings are her only
way of meeting others.

"She said she gets headaches if she is by herself and not talking to anyone,"
said her translator, Hong Le.

Vietnamese and Bosnians make up the largest refugee groups in the St. Louis
area. The International Institute, which helps immigrants and resettles
refugees, estimates about 30,000 Bosnian refugees and up to 9,000 Vietnamese
refugees live in the region.

Participants in both groups often come to the meetings seeking help on medical
issues, social services or the citizenship process. Sometimes, they need someone
to read and interpret their mail.

Both groups occasionally take field trips. The Bosnians headed to the Missouri
Botanical Garden last week, while the Vietnamese group visited the Zoo.

Sang Nguyen coordinates a similar program through Catholic Charities,
Archdiocese of St. Louis. His group meets the second Wednesday of each mont h
and focuses specifically on health issues, like controlling diabetes, high blood
pressure and cholesterol. The next monthly meeting will provide flu shots and
blood sugar checks.

Many refugees Nguyen works with are too embarrassed to seek medical help because
of their poor English skills.

"They have their Medicaid card in their wallet but they are scared to see an
American doctor," he said.

While the group focuses on health issues, the biggest draw is the socializing,
Nguyen said.

"We try to help (them) avoid depression," he said. "If they are isolated in
home, they get depressed. They can't talk with the Americans, and all their
children work all day, all week, so they stay home inside."

Begic Amira lost her only son in the Bosnian conflict and lives alone in
University City. "The only conversation she has is when she is here," said
Jasminka Grubor, the group's case worker. "She feels so happy when she leaves."

So does Thien Nguyen, 65.

"People are in the same situation and same age here," she said. "Seven days at
home alone is so boring. It's very important to come here."

= = = =

The Elderlink program is open to Bosnian and Vietnamese refugees 60 or older.
For more information about program meetings, contact the International Institute
at 314-773-9090.

Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of St. Louis, has a program for Vietnamese
refugees 60 and older. Meetings are held the second Wednesday of each month. For
more information, contact the Vietnamese Center at 314-664-8990.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Eun-Kyung Kim; E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8116

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photos by KEVIN MANNING /POST-DISPATCH; (1) Color Photo - Nguyen
Tuan and Ngo Khon (right) vote on a trip to the Zoo for their next meeting of
the Vietnamese section of the Elderlink program at the Vietnamese Educational
and Cultural Center, 4067 South Grand Boulevard. (* Note: The THREE STAR edition
added the following to the caption: The meetings offer opportunities to learn
about health care, the city and social services.); (2) Photo - Tran Thi Huong
(left) and Vu Thi Nga walk to Jay International grocery, 3172 South Grand
Boulevard, last month. They participate in the International Institute's
Elderlink program, which one participant calls "kind of therapy for the soul."
(* Note: This photo ran only in the THREE STAR edition, page D7.)

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              187 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            November 12, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORKERS FILE SUIT ACCUSING WAL-MART OF RACKETEERING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Workers arrested in federal raids filed a racketeering lawsuit accusing Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. of conspiring with contractors in a criminal enterprise that
violated the civil rights and wage protections of immigrants who cleaned its
stores.

The lawsuit seeks class-action status for perhaps thousands of immigrants, legal
and illegal, hired by the contractors to clean the world's largest retailer's
stores, said a lawyer for the plaintiffs, James L. Linsey.

The scheme by Wal-Mart and the contractors violated the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act by systematically depriving the workers of labor law
protections over at least the last three years, according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit seeks unspecified monetary damages and an injunction barring
Wal-Mart from further violations.

The nine named plaintiffs, all from Mexico, were among 250 people arrested Oct.
23 in raids at 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states. They have been released to await
deportation proceedings, Linsey said.

Mona Williams, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the claims have no merit and the
company will seek to have the lawsuit dismissed.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: MORNING BRIEFING

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              188 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 23, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

(PHOTO ONLY) IMMIGRATION MAN

SECTION: A[E] Pg. C1

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo - (Scene from the movie) Immigration man - "In
America" movingly recounts Irish filmmaker Jim Sheridan's days as an illegal
alien/

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              189 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            November 26, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FOR IMMIGRANT, SHRIMP DISH TASTES LIKE HOME

BYLINE: Cleora Hughes

SECTION: LET'S EAT; Cleora Hughes/What's Cooking Column; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 650 words


Name: Lucrecia da Silva

Home: St. Louis (Tower Grove East neighborhood)

Occupation: Seamstress at the Design Loft Co.

Family: Daughters Manica, Marcelina and Efigenia; sons Claudio, Joao (Jocas) and
Emanuel

How we came to America: "After spending many years in refugee camps because of a
civil war in Angola, we were able to come here through a program sponsored by
the American Embassy that made visas available to refugees with children. We
applied, were accepted and have been here for 13 years."

The way Angolans eat: "Our main dish is a porridge made with cassava flour," da
Silva says. Cassava is the root vegetable that is made into tapioca. "We also
eat the leaves from all kinds of vegetables: spinach, cassava, okra, pumpkin and
beans, with a little pork or beef. My family raised chickens, pigs and goats.
Some we ate, and others we sold at the market.

"Dessert is usually fruit grown on the farm - bananas, tangerines, oranges,
avocados and pineapples. One sweet we make is a kind of cookie with peanuts,
sugar and wheat or cassava flour."

Almost American: Many ingredients are the same in Angola and the United States,
she says. "The difference is the way food is prepared. We don't use many spices,
and food here is much fancier."

Favorite American foods: "Vegetable pizza with onion, green pepper, cheese,
tomatoes and olives is my all-time favorite. I had never even heard of it before
I came to the U.S.

"There are so many desserts that I like, including vanilla and strawb erry ice
cream. At one time, it was hard to find in my country. But now it may be
different, because everything changes."

Family favorite: "This Portuguese dish is popular in Angola because the
Portuguese occupied our country for more than 500 years, but Angola gained its
independence in 1975. I am an American citizen now. I like to visit the old
country, but I do not want to live there again."

====== SHRIMP POCKETS ======

(Rissois De Camar'o)

Yield: 5 servings.

For shrimp mixture:

1 (3-ounce) package shrimp and crab boil spice (such as McCormick's Golden Dipt
)

15 raw medium shrimp in the shell

Juice from 1 lemon or lime

2 cloves garlic, pressed or finely minced For pastry:

1 cup water

1/2 teaspoon salt or to taste

Shredded zest of 1 lime (colored portion of peel)

1 tablespoon olive oil or butter

1 cup all-purpose flour

1 egg, beaten

3/4 cup Italian-style seasoned dry bread crumbs

2 cups vegetable oil, for frying

To prepare shrimp: Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Stir in shrimp and crab
boil spice, then add shrimp. Cook shrimp over medium heat until they turn pink,
about 5 minutes. With a slotted spoon, remove shrimp from water. Let cool about
1 minute, then remove the shells. Put shrimp in a large bowl; sprinkle with
lemon or lime juice. Stir in crushed garlic. Set aside.

To prepare pastry: In a medium saucepan, combine water, salt, lime zest and
olive oil. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat.

Reduce heat to low; pour in the flour all at once. Stir constantly until dough
forms a ball and pulls away from the sides of the pan. Remove pan from heat;
transfer dough to a cutting board. Let cool 5 minutes.

Roll out the dough to about 1/4 inch thickness; cut into 3-inch circles with a
glass or a biscuit cutter.

Place a tablespoon of the shrimp mix in the center of each circle; flip the
dough over the shrimp, forming a half circle. Crimp the edges closed with the
tines of a fork. Dip each shrimp pocket into beaten egg and then into bread
crumbs, coating lightly but completely.

Heat oil over high heat in a medium skillet. Fry the shrimp pockets, a few at a
time, for 5 to 10 minutes or until golden in color, turning once.

PER SERVING: 278 calories; 12g fat (39 percent calories from fat); 2g saturated
fat; 70mg cholesterol; 10g protein; 33g carbohydrate; 1.5g sugar; 1.5g fiber;
603mg sodium; 47mg calcium; 90mg potassium.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COOK'S CHOICE/ WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE IN WHAT'S COOKING?/ It's easy -- just
send your favorite recipe, along with a short introductory paragraph. Or
nominate a friend or relative. Be sure to include your name, address and daytime
and evening telephone numbers./ The recipe doesn't have to be original, just one
you would like to share. Make the recipe as complete and specific as possible,
including pan and can sizes, baking times, temperatures and yield./ Send your
recipe to:/ What's Cooking/ c/o Cleora Hughes/ St. Louis Post-Dispatch/ 900
North Tucker Boulevard/ St. Louis, Mo. 63101/ E-mail: chughes@post-dispatch.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by DAWN MAJORS / POST-DISPATCH - Lucrecia da Silva
prepares a batch of Shrimp Pockets.

TYPE: PROFILE/LUCRECIA DA SILVA

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              190 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            November 26, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

AN INTERNATIONAL FLAVOR FOR THANKSGIVING/ 200 IMMIGRANTS DINE AT INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTE

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 414 words


For Olga Romero and her husband, Jose Nieto, Thanksgiving will mean more than a
turkey dinner with all the fixings.

The Colombian refugees arrived in St. Louis two months ago, grateful for the
basic human rights that many Americans take for granted.

"We're thankful for the stability and security here, because in Colombia there
is no security," said Nieto, 38, who sought relief from paramilitary forces in
Bogota who he said were constantly harassing his family and threatening to
kidnap his two children.

Nieto and his wife were among the 200 immigrants and refugees giving thanks
Tuesday at an annual Thanksgiving feast hosted by the International Institute of
Metropolitan St. Louis, which assists immigrants and relocates refugees here.

This year's celebration was especially festive for some Institute clients
because it coincided with Eid al-Fitr. The three-day Muslim holiday signifies
the end of Ramadan, the holy month of fasting, prayer and contemplation.

Ali Karinpour, 28, thanked God for simply being alive. He said he fled several
years ago from an Iranian regime in which he would have been killed.

Karinpour was glad to have Thanksgiving and Eid coincide.

"People who didn't know about Eid, and people who didn't know about T
hanksgiving, they meet each other and learn," he said. "There is an awareness of
the other culture."

For many attending the Institute's celebration, it was their first Thanksgiving
meal.

Hassan Khosravinejad asked why the meal centers around a turkey. But however
different Thanksgiving food is from his regular meals, he said it was easy to
understand the holiday's meaning.

"Anytime people come together for fun, being together and being happy - it's
nice to be in that situation," said the Iranian refugee, who moved to St. Louis
three weeks ago.

Other immigrants and refugees, those taking English classes at the Institute,
expressed their thanks on worksheets posted along the center's walls.

Derisme Ezechiel of Haiti was thankful for a new daughter, for being in St.
Louis, and for visiting Chicago last month. Next year, Ezechiel wants to "visit
more states and cities in the United States," as well as speak English better.

Other papers served as reminders for the simple things in life that often get
taken for granted.

"I have apartment, I have good work. I have the good family," wrote Jaime Uribe
of Mexico City, who arrived in St. Louis in June.

And what does he hope for next year?

"One better life."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Eun-Kyung Kim/ E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-340-8116

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Marlene Kruse
(left) and Ana Betancourt measure a pumpkin Tuesday to determine who came
closest to guessing the pumpkin's waistline at the annual Thanksgiving feast at
the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              191 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 1, 2003 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

GERMAN SETTLERS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY WERE STRONG BUT FAR FROM SILENT/ ZION
OAKFIELD UNITED CHURCH OF CHRIST STILL HELPS ITS MEMBERS KEEP IN TOUCH WITH THE
WORLD

BYLINE: Florence Shinkle/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words


One hundred twenty-five years ago this Christmas Day, the German immigrants who
farmed the hills along Highway 100 in eastern Franklin County donated land for a
church.

After they finished building it, they posed out front for a picture.

In it, they look dour and tight-lipped - a major misrepresentation. They may
have been dour, but they surely weren't tight-lipped. They were exhaustive
gatherers of corn, wheat and tidbits of information. The latter they carried to
church along with their Bibles, and they were bent on spreading the words along
with the Word.

In fact, the founders established the church - the Zion Evangelical Church of
Oakfield, now called the Zion Oakfield United Church of Christ - as much to keep
in touch with this world as to get in touch with the next one.

"This was where they renewed acquaintances, and it was every bit as important as
the worship itself," said the Rev. George Sonneborn. He and the Rev. Gene Becker
share current pastoral duties for the little church on Old Manchester Road at
Little Tavern Road.

Sonneborn did considerable research for the anniversary. One thing he learned:
The church is old, but it could have been much older. Zion Evangelical wasn't
erected until nearly 50 years after the first wave of German immigrants moved
into eastern Franklin County - demolishing the platitude that the church always
was the first public building raised in a pioneer community.

Oakfield's first leader, Frederick Steines, founded the Oakfield School in 1839,
a few years after he had built his house on Highway 100, then a bridle trail,
soon to be the St. Louis Rock Road.

But Steines regarded churches as unnecessary.

"Churches are necessary in the city but not in the country," he adjudged, citing
the good, clean living of the isolated country dwellers.

Most of the would-be church members lived at the end of roadless hollows. Years
after World War II, few in the area could afford a car. Rita Treffinger, 70,
recalls driving a horse and buggy to the Catholic church in Pacific in the 1940s
and thinking nothing of it "until some man stopped his car and wanted to take my
picture. I was so embarrassed to be driving the old horse." The Alt family,
founding members of Oakfield church, owned a car but even three decades ago
lacked a passable road out of their hollow to drive it across. They parked the
thing all spring and winter, and it just sat, more like a monument than a means
of conveyance.

So, more than devoutness, it was pure loneliness for one another, for the German
language, for the blessing of ordinary conversation that pushed the area farmers
beyond their misgivings about whether they could afford to maintain a church.
According to a newspaper article from the period, the people of the community
agreed among themselves to undertake the responsibility provided two conditions
were met: The church would be on a hill, and it would have a bell.

The bell was, of course, to keep folks in the loop. It was to be rung at 5 p.m.
Saturdays to signal the end of the work week, at 10:30 a.m. Sundays and holidays
for services, and in the event of an emergency. Even if you couldn't get to the
emergency to help, you had the satisfaction of knowing there'd been one, and you
would hear all about it next Sunday.

Attendance also was boosted by the establishment of a visiting hour before the
service. One early minister came up with the pew-emptying proposition that Bible
study classes be substituted for visiting hour. The visiting hour stayed. The
minister departed.

Many ministers came and went, while the families stayed where they were and
stayed knit together, generation after generation. One of the preachers, the
Rev. Gottlieb Eisen, who pastored the church from 1883 through 1885, departed
under a cloud of suspicion.

"Somebody said he was trying to lead the congregation into the Methodist church,
a dastardly proposition if true," Sonneborn said.

The reason for the suspicion: Eisen's mother-in-law was Methodist, and the
postmaster reported that Eisen had received a book from the Methodist bookstore.

Eisen was glad to leave. He wrote home to a friend in Switzerland to apologize
that he hadn't sent a letter for a while because he had to wait for his ink to
thaw.

Another real tongue exerciser was the departure of founding church member Henry
Oeters. His leaving was rehashed so exhaustively that it achieved the
distinction of becoming boring for some. The church minutes from January 1891
read, "Mr. Oeters' resignation gave grounds for long debate. Mr. Laupp finally
suggested they drop the discussion."

But the general rule was that there was no such thing as being longwinded. In a
stark world, they wrapped one another in a sumptuous blanket of talk. Alts,
Poertners, Laupps, Bartolds, Strickers, Scheers. They worshipped, married,
baptized and buried one another there, and cussed and discussed with each other
- the ties that bind.

The church membership is about 30 families today, many of them descendants of
the founders, although new members have arrived from the development at St.
Albans and have brought fresh news.

The big question facing the church is whether to rent the parsonage and glean
the rent money or forgo the income in favor of having a place to teach Sunday
school and socialize. If history would predict, camaraderie will take precedence
over cash.

A few weeks ago, the Legislature issued a proclamation, congratulating the
church on its 125 years and calling it "a resplendent occasion."

And it is a resplendent anniversary, everyone agrees: something to talk about
for years to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Florence Shinkle:/ E-mail: fshinkle@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
636-500-4107

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo - In an early photo, members of Zion Evangelical
Church of Oakfield, now called Zion Oakfield United Church of Christ, pose
outside the church./ (2) Color Photo by SAM LEONE/POST-DISPATCH - RIGHT: Wayne
Kaempfe raises the American flag before services./ (3) Photo by SAM
LEONE/POST-DISPATCH - Ruth (Cummins) and Larry Cummins worship together at Zion
Oakfield United Church of Christ, 425 Old Manchester Road in Franklin County.
The church is 125 years old and has 32 members.

TYPE: HISTORY

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              192 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 2, 2003 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. ENDS PROGRAM SETTING ANNUAL IMMIGRANT REVIEWS/ MORE THAN 80,000 WERE
EXPECTED FOR INTERVIEWS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 835 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Expecting a bureaucratic avalanche at its offices nationwide, the Department of
Homeland Security today will scrap mass interviews of 82,532 visitors from
mostly Muslim countries. The program was a key plank in the Justice Department's
anti-terrorism plan.

Begun by Attorney General John Ashcroft last year, the National Security
Entry-Exit Registration System required that men from 25 nations be
fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed at local immigration offices, if
they were already in the country. The program also registered men at ports of
entry if they had visited or had some tie to those 25 nations, whether they were
citizens of those countries or not, Homeland Security spokesman Bill
Strassberger said.

But just as an enormous number of visitors were scheduled for return visits for
interviews under Justice Department guidelines, Homeland Security - which took
over immigration duties earlier this year - opted to stop the return visits of
men here on student, tourist and business visas. Instead, they reserved the
right to call in individual visitors for special interviews on a "case-by-case"
basis. A new program, scheduled to begin Jan. 5, will be a broader replacement,
requiring all foreign visitors arriving on a visa to be photographed and
fingerprinted upon arrival.

"We could more effectively use the resources by targeting individuals instead of
specific groups. We are ending the most controversial part - the special
registration," said Strassberger, who said the controversy over the program did
not influence the decision.

The announcement Monday was greeted warmly by Muslims and immigrant advocates,
diplomats from the targeted nations and college advisers to international
students. It was greeted with silence by Justice Department officials, who
declined to comment. But a former Justice official called the move a mistake.

"You lose an important potential signal for terrorist activity by doing this,"
said Kris Kobach, a University of Missouri at Kansas City law professor and
Kansas congressional candidate who was counsel to Ashcroft and an architect of
the program.

"It appears that DHS is making this move as a cost-cutting measure. But that
signal is well worth the cost, and removing it seems to me ill-considered."

Kobach particularly decried the elimination of a 30-day check-in interview
required of those who registered as they entered the country.

"We predicted in the Justice Department that if we had in place the 30-day
check-in, a majority of (the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers) probably would have tried to
evade the check," Kobach said. "And so we would have gained clues or signals
giving U.S. investigators and the FBI information about these higher-risk
individuals who didn't come and check in."

Those men who registered at local offices were required to report back once a
year. Through the end of September, 177,260 men registered with the program.
Many of those - 13,799 - who complied with the new rule found themselves the
subject of deportation hearings, mainly for overstayed vis as. As a result, some
in later waves of the program decided to not show up for interviews. Many who
had lived in the United States for decades left the country, seeking political
asylum in Canada.

But this week, as men from the second group of countries were scheduled to
return for interviews, the Department of Homeland Security put a stop to the
program, citing bureaucratic nightmares similar to those that plagued
immigration offices in the past year.

Officials predict 82,532 would return to local offices for interviews between
now and May, creating "103,000 hours of burden on the public" and "62,000 work
hours for Homeland Security personnel."

"NSEERS caused thousands of innocent law-abiding and tax-paying families to
leave the U.S. in the most humiliating manner," said Faiz Rehman, president of
the National Council of Pakistani Americans. He said 3,000 Pakistanis applied
for political asylum in Canada as a reaction to the program.

Kathy Steiner-Lang, director of the International Office at Washington
University, said the end to the interviews will be a relief to foreign students,
who have multiple reporting requirements under another post-Sept. 11 program.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association also welcomed the changes - but
said they do not go far enough.

"While we are pleased that the department has suspended some aspects of this
failed program, the program in its entirety should be terminated," said Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the association.

Butterfield expressed specific concern that the new rules say that registrants
could be individually called in for an interview at the department's discretion.
Strassberger said that information will not likely be publicized, since it will
apply to individuals who will be cho sen "by information developed from the
person, through information they provide during their interview for admission or
other information developed by intelligence."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/
Phone: 202-298-6880

TYPE: REACTION

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              193 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 7, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

AGENCY HELPS IMMIGRANTS HERE TRAIN FOR JOBS IN HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: Kaitlin Bell/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 402 words


Wazma Popal worked as a nurse in a Pakistan hospital for three years after she
and her family fled from their native Afghanistan. She left everything behind,
including her nurse's certification documents, when she came to the United
States in January 2002. Once in St. Louis, she took a job in a gift shop at
Lambert Airport.

Popal, 25, came one step closer to re-entering her former profession when she
received a patient care assistant certification in a ceremony Saturday at the
International Institute in St. Louis.

The new 10-week program certified 11 refugees from Bosnia, Nigeria, Sierra
Leone, Afghanistan and Cuba to work as hospital nurse assistants, who perform
tasks such as taking blood pressure and temperatures and measuring height and
weight. A $200,000 grant from the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement funded
the program.

Friends and family members snapped photographs, ran video cameras and applauded
loudly as program manager Paul Costigan presented the participants with framed
certificates. Standing in front of a large "congratulations" banner, they wore
green hospital scrubs and lab coats.

Most of the participants had health care experience in their home countries, but
here, they found themselves without the necessary certification to work,
Costigan said.

In response, the institute developed a course tailored especially for refugees.
A teacher of English as a second language drilled students in medical
terminology. The institute conducted classes at night, because most of the 11
participants worked full-time jobs during the day. The program also helped
participants to set up job interviews with hospitals.

Clement Ika, a Nigerian who came to this country in 1999 after spending three
years in a refugee camp in Benin, already has landed a position at St. John's
Mercy Medical Center.

Ika worked as a health care volunteer in Nigeria. He says he left after violent
clashes between the Nigerian government and dissidents who protested oil
companies' drilling on Ogoni tribal land. He has long wanted to become a nurse
like his father, who remains in the west African nation. He considers the course
a good start, he said.

Popal also wants to obtain more advanced certification soon.

"This is the beginning," she said, a wide smile breaking across her face. "I
really have an interest in health care and I hope to become a nurse again in the
future."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2/ Reporter Kaitlin Bell/ E-mail:
kaitlinbell@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 618-659-3634

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              194 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             December 13, 2003 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HISPANICS PROTEST REPEAL OF IMMIGRANT LICENSE LAW

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


* They boycott schools and businesses across California in an effort to
emphasize their economic importance.

Hundreds of Hispanics took to the streets Friday to protest the repeal of a law
allowing illegal immigrants to get drivers licenses.

They engaged in a statewide boycott of schools and businesses. The daylong
boycott was intended to highlight the economic contributions of 11.9 million
California Hispanics.

Last week, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger fulfilled a major campaign promise when he
repealed the license law. It had been signed in September by then-Gov. Gray
Davis.

On Friday, about 400 people marched into East Los Angeles. They waved signs that
read, in Spanish, "Yes, we can" and "We want licenses now."

Pablo Lopez, 44, said, "We come here to work hard, and we have family that we
have to protect. If we don't have a license, we won't be able to do that."

The protest was planned to coincide with the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
Events included a march of schoolchildren in Los Angeles and rallies in San Jose
and San Francisco.

At least one school system tried to pre-empt a student walkout. The Santa Ana
district raffled off a color TV for those who came to school. And earlier in the
week, officials sent home a note to parents urging them to send their children
to school Friday.

In downtown San Jose, more than 150 people set out on a march to the Department
of Motor Vehicles.

Jesse Castaneda, 38, called Friday's boycott just a start. "It's kind of
awakening a sleeping giant," said Castaneda, a Mexican-American.

"They talk about illegal immigration, and they want to get rid of all the
illegal immigrants. What would happen at a state level if that were to happen?
They'll realize that we are needed here."

Another target of the boycott was Clear Channel, which owns 1,200 radio stations
nationwide. The company broadcasts a Los Angeles-based talk show that Hispanics
say frequently attacks immigrant rights. Clear Channel did not immediately
return calls.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              195 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 21, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

PERSONAL STORIES MAKE IRISH MIGRATION FASCINATING

BYLINE: Steve Weinberg/ Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: A[E] Pg. C12

LENGTH: 403 words


"Irish Immigrants in the Land of Canaan: Letters and Memoirs From Colonial and
Revolutionary America"

By Kerby Miller, Arnold Schrier, Bruce D. Boling and David N. Doyle

Published by Oxford University Press, 816 pages, $35 (trade paperback)

Immigration stories tend to fascinate. After all, almost every one of us is part
of a family that recently or in the distant past arrived in the United States
from some other nation.

Of all the immigration stories, perhaps the centuries-long flow of the Irish to
the United States is the most chronicled and the most misrepresented. Think
poetry, storytelling, lilting accents of language. Think John F. Kennedy and his
ancestors. Think Irish potato famine of the 1840s. Think Irish Republican Army,
civil warfare, Belfast, Northern Ireland. Think Catholicism and
anti-Catholicism, Irish working class, including cops, in U.S. city after U.S.
city, including St. Louis.

Kerby Miller is a University of Missouri history professor who probably knows as
much about the specifics of Irish immigration as anybody alive. Researching the
phenomenon has been his life's work. Although most of Miller's books have been
aimed at an audience of scholars, each is written accessibly for the lay reader.

In 1994, Miller consciously moved to the publishing mainstream with the
coffee-table book "Out of Ireland: The Story of Irish Emigration to America" and
the companion 111-minute documentary film directed by Paul Wagner.

Miller's new book, with three academic collaborators from outside MU, appears at
first to be a return to a specialized audience. But its thickness and dense type
are misleading. It is personal history at its most compelling.

Miller has located thousands of letters in archives and libraries. Some of the
most interesting are in the book.

Each of the 68 intellectually bite-size chapters (meant to illustrate a specific
theme or phenomenon, such as what caused the emigration or how transplanted
schoolteachers fared) is built around the correspondence of one man or woman.
The letters unadorned would be amazing enough. But Miller and his colleagues
annotate each letter, so that readers understand unusual words, concepts, the
politics and social issues of each era portrayed.

"Irish Immigrants in the Land of Canaan" could be considered a group biography
of the nonfamous, and they are some of the most fascinating folks you will never
meet.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Steve Weinberg is a freelance author in Columbia, Mo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo - Book cover, "Irish Immigrants in the Land of Canaan:
Letters and Memoirs From Colonial and Revolutionary America"

TYPE: REVIEW - BOOK/"IRISH IMMIGRANTS IN THE LAND OF CANAAN: LETTERS AND MEMOIRS
FROMCOLONIAL AND REVOLUTIONARY AMERICA" BY KERBY MILLER, ARNOLD SCHRIER,BRUCE D.
BOLING AND DAVID N. DOYLE

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              196 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 9, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. IMMIGRATION RELEASES HAITIAN TEEN HELD FOR YEAR

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An orphaned Haitian teenager who spent more than a year in U.S. immigration
custody was freed to go live with a relative, but she still could face
deportation when she turns 18.

Rose Thermitus, 17, was among more than 200 Haitians who arrived on an o
vercrowded wooden freighter that ran aground in Miami in October 2002. She was
freed from a Miami shelter Tuesday and flew to New York, where she will live
with a cousin.

"I am very happy," Thermitus told The Miami Herald. "I didn't believe they would
release me."

Her request for asylum had been rejected, but she couldn't be deported because
Haiti refused to issue a travel visa to a child traveling alone with nowhere to
go when she arrived. Her parents are believed dead, and federal officials had
failed to find anyone in Haiti willing to take her in.

"I am convinced that releasing Rose today was the right and proper thing to do,"
said Wade Horn, assistant secretary for children and families at the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.

U.S. officials could still seek to deport her when she turns 18, an official at
an immigrant advocacy agency says.

Officials with the Homeland Security Department, which had sought to deport her,
had no immediate comment Wednesday.

Thermitus and her older brother left Haiti after the family's home was burned
down by a mob. Her brother was deported to Haiti after his asylum request was
denied. She does not know where he is now.

Thermitus' case and those of other children like her have cast a spotlight on
the U.S. policy of detaining Haitians indefinitely.

Haitians seeking asylum generally used to be released on bond, free to live with
family members while they pursued their claims. But in April, Attorney General
John Ashcroft, citing national security concerns and a possible mass migration
from Haiti, stated that Haitians must remain in custody while their cases are
considered.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: FOCUS ON HAITI

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              197 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 11, 2004 Sunday Three Star Edition

ISRAEL, ETHIOPIANS SPAR OVER IMMIGRATION/ ISRAELIS APPEAR TO BE BACKING OFF
PROMISE TO TAKE IN GROUP OF 20,000

BYLINE: Gavin Rabinowitz/ The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: MEVASERET ZION, ISRAEL


Yeshambel Kassel Alazebech, an Ethiopian farmer, claims to be a descendant of
Jews who converted to Christianity. Now, after returning to Judaism, he has come
to Israel to claim his birthright.

But the possibility of tens of thousands of Ethiopians arriving has unnerved
Israel, which appears to be backing away from a costly promise to take in the
rest of Kassel Alazebech's people.

In recent days, Cabinet ministers have voiced opposition to a government
decision last year to lift immigration restrictions on the community of 20,000
Ethiopians, known as the Falash Mura, saying it would cost too much in Israel's
weakened economy, battered by more than three years of fighting with the
Palestinians.

Also, veteran Ethiopian Jewish immigrants have cautioned the government against
taking in their countrymen, contending many are charlatans whose claims of
Jewish descent are a ploy aimed at getting out of famine-ridden Ethiopia.

Unlike the 80,000 Ethiopian Jews in Israel, whose Jewish roots go back
centuries, the Falash Mura claim descent from a community of Jews forced to
abandon Judaism in the 19th century because of persecution.

Kassel Alazebech, 36, waited six years in an overcrowded holding camp run by
American Jewish activists in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, before getting
permission to immigrate to Israel six months ago. During that time, he says, he
embraced his Jewish roots.

"When we waited in Addis Ababa, we left our old ways behind us and started to
keep Jewish ways, even before coming to Israel," he said.

Now he lives with other Falash Mura in government-subsidized immigrant housing,
studying for his formal conversion to Judaism and trying to acquire skills to
integrate into his new land.

The African immigrants stand out in this upscale town on the outskirts of
Jerusalem, gathered at street corners talking softly in their native Amharic.
Almost all wear hooded army surplus jackets, hunching their shoulders against
the unfamiliar, near-freezing drizzle.

But for all its simplicity, the barracks-like immigrant housing is far better
than what they left behind.

Since 1991, thousands of Falash Mura have left their homes in Ethiopia to live
in mud huts in crowded camps in Addis Ababa and the northern city of Gondar in
hopes of immigrating to Israel.

Menweyalet Alem Ferde, 64, a subsistence farmer from northern Ethiopia, and his
wife waited five years in the Addis Ababa camp in a single-room hut shared with
another family. His daughter and grandchildren are still waiting there.

Israel now allows 300 Falash Mura a month to come to Israel.

Many of Israel's Ethiopian Jews were brought to Israel in massive airlifts
during times of crisis in Ethiopia in 1984 and 1991 and received automatic
citizenship. But because Israel does not recognize the Falash Mura as Jewish,
they are not automatically eligible for citizenship.

The Falash Mura and their advocates among American Jewish groups have urged
Israel to speed the immigration process, warning that those waiting in Ethiopia
are exposed to hunger and disease.

But the Ethiopian Jews say tighter restrictions should be imposed on the Falash
Mura.

"More than 60 percent (of the Falash Mura) have no connection to Israel," said
Dani Adeno Abebe, a Jewish Ethiopian journalist. "They are a crowd of
hitchhikers," he said, warning that the government could face an influx of
hundreds of thousands with spurious claims to a Jewish past.

But Avraham Neguise, the founder of South Wing to Zion, a Falash Mura advocacy
group, says the community numbers no more than 20,000 people already living at
the holding centers in Ethiopia.

Kassel Alazebech said the Falash Mura in his village practiced weaving and
pottery-making typical of the region's Jews.

"The other people used to come to us and curse us, saying, 'You do these works,
you are Jews,'" he said.

Falash Mura in Israel have held street protests to decry the government's
inaction on its decision last year to lift immigration restrictions, accusing it
of discrimination.

"Tzipi discriminates against black Jews," read a sign at a recent protest,
referring to Immigration Minister Tzipi Livni, who opposes more Falash Mura
immigration until extra funds are allocated.

"She does not say there is no money for Jews who come from other lands - only
for us," said Alem Ferde.

In the last decade, Israel let in more than a million immigrants from the former
Soviet Union, many of them also not technically Jewish.

Immigration Ministry spokesman Arik Foder rejects the accusations. "Nobody can
accuse us of racism. Our investment in the Ethiopians is higher than for any
other group of immigrants," Foder said.

Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom went to Ethiopia last week, the first
visit by an Israeli foreign minister in more than a decade. On Wednesday, he met
with Falash Mura, telling them that for the time being. Israel could not bring
them all but that he would try to find funding in the future.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Ethiopian Jews hold
pictures of relatives back in Ethiopia hoping to come to Israel during a
demonstration Friday in Tel Aviv calling on the Israeli government to ease
immigration restrictions.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              198 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 13, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

DEMOCRATS ARE PRODDED TO TACKLE TENDER SUBJECT

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE: FORT MADISON, IOWA


When Howard Dean came to this southeastern Iowa town on the Mississippi River
Monday night, 200 locals gathered to meet him. They included Renay
Lozano-Dominguez, a second-generation Mexican-American and one of about 1,000
Hispanics living in the area.

What, she asked the Democratic presidential hopeful, did he think of President
George W. Bush's plan for a temporary guest worker program?

"The president's immigration bill is an awful plan," Dean told her, noting that
Bush's plan, which the president was touting Monday at the Summit of the
Americas in Mexico, does not allow workers to qualify for permanent resident
status. "The companies get the benefits of the workers ... and then the workers
get sent home with nothing."

Dean, like most of the Democratic presidential candidates stumping here for
Monday's Iowa caucuses, support "earned legalization," a plan that would allow
foreigners who have worked illegally in the United States for a certain period
to apply for permanent residency. The same is true for Rep. Richard Gephardt,
but the St. Louis congressman didn't discuss his earned legalization plan when
he was hit with a far more hostile question Monday morning in the small town of
Atlantic in western Iowa.

"Illegal aliens," said Craig Halverson, 52, of nearby Griswold, and one of those
traveling to Gephardt's campaign stop at the Atlantic Public Library. "What are
you going to do about them?"

Gephardt's answer: the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and
Canada, which he vehemently opposed, was to blame for low wages in Mexico that
prompt its citizens to travel to the United States for jobs.

"That's why people are coming. They live in squalor," Gephardt said. "You've got
to have a new trade policy. You need to give incentives to our corporations to
stay here."

The presidential candidates all talked liberally about their legalization plans
at earlier forums in immigrant-rich New Mexico and Arizona. They did the same at
Monday night's debate aired from Des Moines to English- and Spanish-language
audiences nationwide. But such talk has been uncommon on the campaign trail in
this overwhelmingly Caucasian state. The 2000 Census said nearly 94 percent of
Iowa residents are non-Hispanic white. With tiny minority populations - 2.8
percent Hispanic and 2 percent black - any influx of immigrants in Iowa is
immediately noticeable. And many of those doing the noticing are equating the
influx with job losses in Iowa.

Carroll Edwards, 70, a retired postal worker from Urbandale, near Des M oines,
makes that connection.

"We're losing jobs, and it's killing us, at the same time we're opening up the
floodgates to immigrants," was the first thing out of Edwards' mouth when a
reporter asked him why he showed up at a Dean campaign event in West Des Moines
on Friday night.

"I thought I might get more out of this than from the debates because of the
sniping they're doing at each other. They're not talking about the immigration
problem. You have to control your borders."

Edwards didn't hear the issue discussed Friday night - a get-out-the-vote rally
for Dean featuring former Vice President Al Gore. But on the heels of Bush's
proposal of his legalization plan for temporary workers, the candidates are
being forced to deal with the question more in the two not-so-immigrant-rich
early caucus and primary states. The political gains of such policies are viewed
as valuable in an election year with a fast-growing Hispanic population - about
a third of whom voted for Bush in 2000. But that's not necessarily so in Iowa
and New Hampshire.

Last week, a man at a New Hampshire campaign stop for Massachusetts Sen. John
Kerry expressed in no uncertain terms his displeasure with Bush's guest worker
plan. While Kerry denounced Bush's plan, he acknowledged to the man that
legalization plans were a reaction to the realities of economics and the
burgeoning illegal population, estimated to be at least 8 million.

"America has always been a nation of immigrants, and immigrants have always done
the work that other people in America don't want to do," Kerry said. "Our
economy depends on people filling the jobs."

Confronting a similar question in the northern Iowa town of Charles City,
Gephardt did say he disagreed with Bush's plan - but went on to describe his own
plan, with a caveat: "What I want to do is earned legalization: If you've been
here five years and worked at least two years, you can get that permanent
residence status. Then, I would enforce much more efficiently the immigration
laws on the border."

But Halverson didn't get those details in western Iowa on Monday morning - and
he was angered that Gephardt deflected the question to the longer-term issue of
NAFTA's effects.

"Why are they going to get all these jobs that Americans could get when these
companies can raise the wages and give the jobs to an American here?" Halverson
said angrily after Gephardt's appearance in Atlantic.

Lozano-Dominguez said she doesn't hear those kinds of questions in Fort Madison,
where Mexican-American families have lived for as long as five generations. But
she isn't surprised candidates are facing more hostile questions about
immigration elsewhere in Iowa.

"Thirty to 40 miles up the road, you might see that," said Lozano-Dominguez,
noting that factories and bakeries farther north in Burlington employ many newly
arrived immigrants.

"I could see if there was an influx of Hispanics branching out in northern and
western (Iowa) - where people have lived all their lives on farms - I could see
where the older folks would feel threatened by an influx of people taking jobs,"
Lozano-Dominguez said. "But (the Hispanics) are usually doing jobs that the
Anglos won't do."

===

Link to more coverage online from the Iowa presidential campaign, including an
interactive photo gallery of the day's events at STLtoday.com/election.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: CAMPAIGN 2004/ IOWA AND IMMIGRATION/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/
E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by DAVID CARSON/POST-DISPATCH - Rep. Richard Gephardt
greets supporters Monday at a coffee shop in Council Bluffs, Iowa. About 100
people packed the store to hear Gephardt speak. The congressman from Missouri is
running a close second to Howard Dean in polls ahead of the Iowa caucuses
Monday.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              199 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 13, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

KEY PLAYERS AND THEIR ISSUES AT THE SUMMIT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 373 words


Some key leaders and their issues at the summit of the Americas in Monterrey,
Mexico:

President George W. Bush: Comes to the summit with a new immigration plan that
he will use to help smooth strained relations with the region. Faces growing
resentment about U.S. anti-terrorism measures, including the fingerprinting and
photographing of arriving foreigners.

Mexican President Vicente Fox: Will push Bush for details of his immigration
plan. Many Mexican officials have also expressed anger over U.S. concerns with
flights from Mexico City to Los Angeles.

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez: Has pledged to fight the Free Trade Area of
the Americas, saying joining it would be "like committing suicide." Chavez
argues the free-trade zone would further impoverish Latin American and Caribbean
countries by forcing their industries to compete with U.S. and Canadian
products. Venezuela is a major oil supplier to the United States, but relations
have been strained under Chavez.

Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin: In office only a few weeks, the Canadian
will use the summit to meet other leaders, including Fox, and to improve
U.S.-Canadian relations that were often strained under predecessor Jean
Chretien. Martin has said he will push other countries to make AIDS drugs
available to poor nations.

Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva: His administration has led a
coalition of nations that oppose the U.S. vision of a Free Trade Area of the
Americas. The United States has refused to back down on agricultural subsidies
for its farmers, and Brazil has said it doesn't want to talk about intellectual
property rights.

Bolivian President Carlos Mesa: Struggling to stabilize his country after the
violent ouster of his predecessor in October, he will ask for financial help
from his counterparts to aid social and political reforms needed to strengthen
the country's tenuous democracy.

Argentine President Nestor Kirchner: His administration was angered by recent
U.S. criticism over Argentina's warming relations with Cuba and its methods for
rebuilding the economy. Kirchner said he would not yield to pressure for policy
changes and predicted he would "win by a knockout" at a face-to-face meeting
with Bush.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: FOCUS ON SUMMIT OF THE AMERICAS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              200 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             January 17, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HIGH COURT WILL RULE ON INDEFINITE DETENTION OF IMMIGRANT CRIMINALS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* The case involves people who are in the United States illegally and have
already served time for crimes but have no homeland to go to.

The Supreme Court agreed Friday to decide whether authorities can indefinitely
imprison hundreds of Cuban immigrant criminals and other illegal foreigners with
no country to accept them.

About 2,220 such people are in jail now, in limbo because the U.S. government
says they're too dangerous to be freed in the United States - but they have no
homeland to go to.

The administration wants the Supreme Court to say that longtime detentions are
acceptable, especially with current concerns about protecting America's borders.

But the government narrowly lost the last time the issue came before the court.
Justices ruled in 2001 that it would be unconstitutional to indefinitely detain
legal immigrants who have already served time for crimes. In this follow-up
case, justices will decide whether people in America illegally have the same
rights.

Solicitor General Theodore Olson warned justices that they could create a "back
door into the United States" for dangerous foreigners.

The test case involves a man who fled Cuba with thousands of other people in
1980. Daniel Benitez, now 45, was sent to prison in Florida for armed robbery,
burglary, battery and other crimes.

He finished his sentence in 2001 but has been in U.S. immigration custody since
then, under a 1996 law that tightened restrictions on criminal aliens.

His lawyer, John Mills of Jacksonville, Fla., said Benitez and the others "face
the very real possibility of spending the rest of their lives incarcerated, not
because of any crimes they may have committed, but because their countries will
not take them back."

Benitez is not a terrorist, he said, and the case does not affect the
government's authority to lock up enemy combatants. The last Supreme Court
ruling on the subject of immigrant criminals was about two months before the
2001 terrorist attacks.

Olson, the administration's top Supreme Court lawyer, told justices that forcing
the release of immigrants "creates an obvious gap in border security that could
be exploited by hostile governments or organizations that seek to place persons
in the United States for their own purposes."

Records show that 2,269 immigrants awaiting deportation are in prison, and more
than half have been detained more than six months, including 920 Cubans from the
Mariel boatlift of 1980.

Lower courts have split on what to do with them since the 2001 Supreme Court
ruling that immigrant detentions longer than six months would probably be
unconstitutional. The government has been told by some courts to release 63
detainees.

Both the government and Benitez urged the court to address the issue. Benitez
lost in the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta.

The case will be argued at the Supreme Court in April, with a ruling before
July.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TOP OF THE NEWS

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              201 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             January 21, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

AGENT KEPT POSSIBLE 20TH HIJACKER OUT OF THE COUNTRY, OFFICIALS SAY/ MAN
REPORTEDLY WAS TURNED AWAY IN ORLANDO JUST BEFORE 9-11 ATTACKS

BYLINE: Curt Anderson/ The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A man who may have been the intended 20th hijacker in al-Qaida's Sept. 11
terrorist attacks was prevented from entering the country by a U.S. immigration
agent, federal officials said Tuesday.

The man, identified only by his last name of al-Qahtani, was turned away by
agent Jose Melendez-Perez at Florida's Orlando International Airport in late
August 2001, according to two senior law enforcement officials who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

FBI and Justice Department investigators say al-Qaida was attempting to bring
additional operatives into the United States only a few weeks before the
attacks, perhaps to join the hijacking plot or to launch a second wave of
terrorism.

As many as a dozen names are being examined through immigration record s, the
officials said. It was unclear whether any of these others were stopped from
entering the United States.

The agent in Orlando became suspicious when al-Qahtani provided only vague
answers to questions about what he was doing in the United States and could not
provide names of people meeting him at the airport or describe where he was
staying, one official said.

Al-Qahtani was stopped and questioned at about the same time that Mohamed Atta,
a ringleader of the Sept. 11 attacks, was using a pay phone at the Orlando
airport, according to surveillance camera tapes. Atta called a number in the
Middle East, the officials said.

At the time al-Qahtani was stopped in Orlando, the United States possessed no
information linking him to terrorism, the officials said.

So far, investigators have not proven a link between Atta and al-Qahtani. But
the FBI has long suspected that one of the planes - United Flight 93, which
crashed in a Pennsylvania field after a passenger uprising - was supposed to
have a team of five instead of only four hijackers. The other three planes taken
over that day had five hijackers.

Melendez-Perez is to testify about the matter at a hearing next week before the
National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, better known as
the 9-11 commission. Melendez-Perez is currently an inspector with the Customs
and Border Protection bureau of the Homeland Security Department.

Commission spokesman Al Felzenberg declined to discuss specifics of the Orlando
case but said testimony from Melendez-Perez and others will shed new light on
what happened before and after the Sept. 11 attacks.

The FBI initially identified Zacarias Moussaoui, an avowed al-Qaida adherent, as
the 20th hijacker. But Moussaoui, awaiting trial in Virginia on federal
conspiracy charges, insists he was unaware of the Sept. 11 plot, and officials
now believe he may have been intended for a subsequent attack. Moussaoui is the
only person being prosecuted in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks.

Newsweek magazine first reported the details about al-Qahtani on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE 2

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            February 18, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

MORNING BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled From Dow Jones, Associated Press, Bloomberg News And
Post-Dispatch Reports.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Morning Briefing Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 486 words


Court OKs Aurora reorganization plan

Aurora Foods Inc. of St. Louis on Tuesday won a judge's approval to merge with
Pinnacle Foods Corp. of New Jersey as part of Aurora's bankruptcy reorganization
plan.

U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath approved the merger at a hearing in
Wilmington, Del. The companies plan to complete the transaction by March 12.

Under the plan, JP Morgan Partners LLC and J.W. Childs Equity Partners LP, which
own Pinnacle's parent, Crunch Equity Holding LLC, will invest about $84 million
in Aurora. CDM Investor Group LLC, which also owns a stake in Crunch, will
invest $1.25 million. The investors respectively will receive 49.3 percent and
8.8 percent of the combined company's new shares, Aurora said.

Pinnacle said it plans to consolidate the companies' headquarters in Mountain
Lakes and Cherry Hill, N.J., and close the Aurora location in St. Louis.

Visa limit is reached

The federal government won't accept any more applications for a visa program
that provides skilled foreign labor to U.S. companies, the office of Citizenship
and Immigration Services said Tuesday.

Less than five months into the fiscal year there already are enough applications
to fill all 65,000 slots for H1-B visas, said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the
agency, a division of the Department of Homeland Security.

A.G. Edwards opens marketing campaign

A.G. Edwards Inc. of St. Louis on Tuesday launched a national advertising and
marketing campaign aimed at highlighting the 117-year-old stock brokerage's
"client first" philosophy. Ads will appear on network and cable TV, on the
Internet and in business, financial and lifestyle publications.

Until recently, marketing for A.G. Edwards amounted to local brokers buying ads
in their hometown papers.

The new campaign, reported in September by the Post-Dispatch, will cost $20
million a year and is expected to last 15 to 20 years, a spokesman said.

Recording group sues 531 computer users

The recording industry sued 531 more computer users Tuesday that it said were
illegally distributing songs over the Internet in what has become a routine
reminder that college students, teenagers and others can face expensive lawsuits
for swapping music online.

The Recording Industry Association of America filed the latest complaints
against "John Doe" defendants in lawsuits in Atlanta; Philadelphia; Orlando,
Fla.; and Trenton, N.J. It said the defendants were customers of one of five
Internet providers based in those cities.

Cendant buys realty arm of Sotheby's

Cendant Corp., the parent of Avis and Century 21, has bought the residential
real-estate brokerage of auction-house Sotheby's Holdings Inc. for $100 million,
the companies said Tuesday.

The brokerage, Sotheby's International Realty, deals with luxury properties in
40 states and 20 countries. The deal does not include its European offices and
affiliates.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              203 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 23, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 678 words


WASHINGTON

Schwarzenegger backs proposal on presidency

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Sunday that he supported a proposed
constitutional amendment to allow foreign-born citizens like himself to serve as
president.

"I think that there's so many people here in this country that are now from
overseas, that are immigrants, that are doing such a terrific job with their
work, bringing businesses here and all this, that there's no reason why not,"
Schwarzenegger said when asked on NBC's "Meet the Press" if a person who has
been a U.S. citizen for at least 20 years should be eligible for the presidency
- a job now open only to people born in the United States.

Schwarzenegger said he had "no idea" whether he would run if the amendment,
proposed by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, were successful.

SAN FRANCISCO

Gay couples are honored amid marriage debate

Hundreds of people gathered Sunday to honor San Francisco's newly married
same-sex couples while politicians continued to debate whether the mayor
overstepped his authority in allowing the unions.

About 2,000 people attended a wedding reception for the couples at the Hyatt
Regency Hotel's Grand Ballroom. Well-dressed couples wearing heart-shaped red,
white and blue stickers that said "Freedom to Marry" arrived before the event.

The marriage of Del Martin, 83, and Phyllis Lyon, 79 - longtime leaders in the
city's lesbian community who have been together 51 years - was the focal point
of the celebration. They were the first of more than 3,000 gay couples married
in San Francisco beginning Feb. 12.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has directed state Attorney General Bill Lockyer to
take action and stop the marriages, which were authorized by Mayor Gavin Newsom.

NEW ORLEANS

Woman dies after fall at Mardi Gras party

A woman who fell 20 feet during a Mardi Gras party at the Superdome died early
Sunday during surgery, officials said.

Maxine Gartman, 49, of Bulverde, Texas, was standing on her front-row chair on a
spectator platform Saturday night when she fell over a railing surrounding the
platform, Superdome spokesman Bill Curl said. Police said the death appeared to
be an accident.

The platform had been inspected by fire safety officials twice in the two days
before the party and was deemed safe, Curl said.

Gartman's death was the second connected to the week of parades leading up to
the raucous revelry of Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday.

NEW YORK

Cancer drug shows promise in study

A new type of cancer drug stopped tumor growth in an early animal study,
boosting hopes that the approach may prove promising in humans, according to
data released Sunday.

The treatment, called VX-680 and being developed by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
represents the first drug to stop tumors by targeting enzymes called Aurora
kinases.

Research has shown that Aurora kinases play an important role in mitosis, or the
process of cell division, which is out of control in cancer patients. Aurora
kinases have been identified as overly abundant in certain types of cancer, such
as leukemia, colon cancer and breast cancer.

In the animal study, the drug on average showed a 56 percent regression in colon
cancer tumors after just 10 days, while in pancreatic cancer, the regression was
22 percent.

The study is published in the March issue of Nature Medicine.

MARATHON, Fla.

Border Patrol picks up 13 Cuban migrants

Thirteen Cuban migrants were picked up by U.S. Border Patrol agents after being
smuggled into the Florida Keys aboard a speedboat, an official said.

Members of the group said that they left from Cuba on Friday night and that the
boat left them on Duck Key, about 90 miles southwest of Miami, around 3 a.m.
Saturday, Border Patrol supervisor Kerry Heck said.

The migrants had made it to shore by the time they were spotted and will
therefore likely be allowed to stay in the country.

When border agents arrived, the boat was gone, and the group - which included 11
adults, a 3-year-old girl and a 6-year-old boy - gave no information about their
smugglers.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              204 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             February 24, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HIGH COURT WILL TAKE UP DEPORTATION CHALLENGE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court said Monday that it would decide whether the government can
return immigrants to countries that have not agreed to accept them, something
their advocates contend threatens their safety.

Lawyers for a refugee who has been ordered returned to Somalia argued that the
U.S. government, in recent years, has started shipping immigrants to home
countries that are in no position to take them.

A judge ordered Keyse Jama's deportation because of an assault conviction, but
the African country of Somalia is unstable and has no central government to
agree to his return.

Since 1997, about 200 immigrants have been returned to Somalia, the Supreme
Court was told.

"We have deep concerns about what happened to those people and the extreme
danger they're in," Jeffrey Keyes of Minneapolis, one of Jama's attorneys, said
Monday.

Jama came to the United States in 1996 as a refugee and was arrested after
getting into a fight with another Somali man three years later.

His case will be argued this fall, along with another immigration case that
justices said Monday they would review. The question in that one is whether a
DUI accident that causes injury is a "crime of violence," which allows the
government to start deportation proceedings.

Justices will hear an appeal from a native Haitian convicted in an accident in
2000 in the Miami area. Josue Leocal, 47, was sentenced to more than two years
in prison on the felony charge.

His lawyer argued that he had never been arrested before during his ne arly 20
years in the United States.

The court's eventual ruling could apply to other charges that involve
negligence.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION/ See sidebar story on page A5: "Other court action."

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              205 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              March 3, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FINGERPRINT DATABASE IS YEARS AWAY/ UNTIL THEN, BORDER PATROL CAN'T MAKE QUICK
CHECKS OF DETAINEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States remains vulnerable to infiltration by known criminals and
terrorists because of chronic delays in making millions of FBI fingerprints
available to the Border Patrol, Justice Department investigators reported
Tuesday.

It probably will take at least four more years for the FBI and Border Patrol
systems to be combined in a way that would allow for a quick, automated check of
fingerprints for the roughly 1 million illegal immigrants who are caught each
year, Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine reported.

That means thousands who could be prosecuted for crimes or detained as security
risks will be simply returned to their home countries, free to try to re-enter
the United States, the report states.

"We believe this continues the significant risk that aliens who should be
detained ... instead will be released because Border Patrol agents will not
learn of their significant criminal or deportation history," Fine said in the
report.

The report is only the latest to point out problems in U.S. efforts to secure
airports, seaports and border crossings following the Sept. 11, 2001, terror
attacks. It was released the same day President George W. Bush marked the first
anniversary of establishment of the Homeland Security Department by insisting
progress is being made.

"America welcomes tourists and students and business people, legitimate cargo,"
Bush told agency workers. "Yet, we're working hard, you're working hard, to make
sure our border is closed to terrorists and criminals and weapons and illegal
drugs."

Still, there remain many holes in the U.S. border security net. The FBI is at
least a year away from combining government terrorist watch lists into a single
database, serious questions remain about security of airline cargo, and U.S.
port officials say they need far more money for security.

Although Border Patrol agents can check detained people against the FBI's
database now, the process is slow, and the agents must select out those to be
checked.

Even with these limitations, from January 2002 to April 2003, the Border Patrol
caught 4,820 people who were wanted for criminal offenses and an additional
3,440 from countries thought to pose security risks to the United States, the
Justice Department report says.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              206 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             March 9, 2004 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

GOP SENATE CANDIDATES CAMPAIGN IN S. ILLINOIS

BYLINE: Ryan Keith/ The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


Republican candidates for U.S. Senate scrambled Monday to make up ground on
front-runner Jack Ryan, turning their attention downstate in their hunt for
votes.

Jim Oberweis brought in a Colorado congressman known for his opposition to
illegal immigration to issue an endorsement in Chicago and then Springfield.
Oberweis planned to take his message on the road during a three-day tour of 16
small east-central Illinois towns in an area known for its support of GOP
candidates.

Suburban Chicago businessman Andy McKenna met voters in Peoria before heading to
a Lincoln Day dinner in Woodford County. He said the March 16 primary would be
decided in the last three or four days and will be based on a candidate's
electability and integrity.

McKenna said Oberweis, who has split with the administration of President George
W. Bush on immigration, is offering anger but not solutions.

"People just hear criticism. They're tired of criticism for the sake of
criticism," McKenna said.

Polls have shown Oberweis in second place, far behind former investment banker
Jack Ryan.

Ryan encouraged supporters to go to the polls next week during an appearance
Monday night before about 50 supporters at a Chicago restaurant.

Oberweis, an Aurora dairy owner and owner of an asset management firm, and U.S.
Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., said the president's immigration plan would
jeopardize the country's security and allow illegal aliens to continue to steal
jobs and money from American workers and taxpayers.

Tancredo said Congress needs more people like Oberweis who are not afraid of the
political ramifications of standing up on hot-button issues. He said the federal
government should not shirk its primary responsibility to protect its citizens.

Oberweis has pounded the airwaves with ominous-looking television ads blasting
the Bush proposal and warning that illegal aliens are coming to take American
jobs. Republican candidates Chirinjeev Kathuria, Jonathan Wright and Ryan also
oppose the president's immigration proposal, but Oberweis is the only one making
it a campaign mantra.

State Sen. Steve Rauschenberger, R-Elgin, who has been underfunded and trailing
Ryan, Oberweis and McKenna in the polls, spent part of the day trying to raise
money on the telephone, then headed to Springfield to make some speeches.

He was planning a radio campaign and some mass mailings in the final days of the
campaign.

Democratic candidates Dan Hynes, the state comptroller, and state Sen. Barack
Obama campaigned in their home of Chicago.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              207 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 28, 2004 Sunday Three Star Edition

CUBANS DESCRIBE SEA VOYAGE ORDEAL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA.


Three Cuban immigrants who survived a harrowing voyage to Florida lashed to
rafts made with inner tubes said 10-foot swells and the lack of food and water
nearly drained all their strength and hope.

In hospital interviews Friday, the survivors said they lost all their food two
days into the trip, which began March 18 from Jibacoa, Cuba, and were forced to
drink their own urine.

"The wind played games with us. A strong wind came and overturned the raft,"
William Villavicencio Perez, 31, said. "We lost everything that fell in the
water. And we had only one oar.

"I was losing my grip in the final moments before I was found," he said. "I had
faith in God, and that faith allowed me to be rescued."

Villavicencio and Carlos Lazaro Bringier Hernandez, 38, were helped to shore by
beachgoers Thursday as they approached the South Florida coastline. The same
day, Milena Isabel Gonzalez Martinez, 37, was plucked from the ocean by a diver
and a rescue helicopter. They were in stable condition Friday at Holy Cross
Hospital in Fort Lauderdale.

But five members of the group disappeared at different times during the trip;
the Coast Guard ended the search for their bodies Friday.

Gonzalez's husband was the first to disappear, probably Tuesday, Bringier said.

"He was acting normally, then all of a sudden he says, 'I'm leaving.' So he
jumped into the water," Bringier said. "When we noticed that he had really
jumped, we had lost him behind a large wave."

The group realized the sea had claimed its second victim overnight.

"We woke up and he was just not there," Bringier said.

A decision was made to separate the raft into two, with the stronger members of
the group - Villavicencio, Bringier and a third man - using one of the rafts to
row ahead and look for land or passing boats.

Gonzalez, the only woman on the voyage, was on the second raft with two other
men, who were not identified.

Eventually, Gonzalez would see the two men on her raft release their grip and
disappear into the ocean.

"They just went into the water on their own. They were desperate, but I stayed
calm," Gonzalez said from the intensive care unit at the hospital.

Meanwhile, the three on the lead raft inched closer to shore. But in the effort,
the companion of Villavicencio and Bringier disappeared.

Gonzalez recalled hallucinating several times that she was being rescued before
the Coast Guard showed up.

Gonzalez's twin 14-year-old boys remain in Cuba, and she said she's having
trouble dealing with her decision to leave them.

"It was craziness on my part," she said. "If I were in the same position again,
I wouldn't do it. It's too risky."

Lazaro Guzman, a senior U.S. Border Patrol agent, said the agency would
interview the three Cubans when they were released from the hospital. If they
are found to be foreign nationals, they will be taken to the Krome Detention
Center west of Miami, he said.

Under current U.S. policy, Cuban migrants who reach dry land are generally
allowed to stay in the United States, while those who are intercepted at sea are
normally returned to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 28, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

IMMIGRANT BOOM FUELS NEED FOR COURTROOM INTERPRETERS

BYLINE: Valerie Schremp/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 743 words


The 15 certified in Missouri all speak Spanish, but officials say the demand for
other languages is growing.

For more than a few of us, it's not hard to imagine getting a traffic ticket and
going to court.

But imagine getting a traffic ticket, going to court, and the judge speaks to
you in Farsi.

That's great, if you happen to speak Farsi. But what if you don't? For that
matter, you may barely know legalese.

As more immigrants and refugees move into Missouri and Illinois, more
interpreters will be needed to help them if they need to go to court for a
traffic ticket, a divorce hearing or even a major crime.

Missouri's Hispanic population increased 93 percent from 1990 to 2000, and more
people who speak other languages are moving into the state. Last year, Spanish
was the most requested language for interpreters in Missouri courts, with over a
third of the state's counties asking for assistance. Vietnamese, Chinese,
Bosnian (Serbo-Croatian) and Somali were the next most requested languages.
Among the requests were one from Lincoln County for a Czech interpreter, a
request from Clay County for a Punjabi inter preter, and a request from Platte
County for a Laotian interpreter.

And yes, there came a time last year in a St. Louis courtroom when somebody
needed to interpret the Iranian language of Farsi.

Though interpreters don't need to be certified in Missouri, the state
administrators who oversee the courts would like them to be.

"A lot of folks think that being bilingual is enough," says Phyllis Launius, who
works with the Office of the State Courts Administrator and oversees the
interpreter program. "It really isn't. In court, you can have everything from
auto parts to body parts. You never know what it will be. You need a good grasp
for both languages."

Illinois does not require its interpreters to be certified and does not have a
formal certification program, said Joseph Tybor, press secretary for the
Illinois Supreme Court. Individual circuit courts rely on a registry of about
200 interpreters, the majority of whom speak Spanish. The Hispanic population in
Illinois increased 55.7 percent from 1990 to 2000.

Two of Missouri's 15 certified court interpreters, all of whom speak Spanish,
live in the St. Louis area.

Carolina Diaz-Silva, 28, a graduate student in Spanish literature at Washington
University, hopes to interpret full time. She averages two appointments a week
and expects more work once she passes the federal interpreter certification
process, which is more stringent than Missouri's. She works in courts in St.
Louis and the Metro East area.

Diaz-Silva grew up in Peru but has studied English since she was 5. That
background has helped her during intense situations in the courtroom. She has to
interpret everything that's going on, even the testimony of witnesses or the
back-and-forth conversation that often occurs when a lawyer makes an objection.

At a recent hearing in St. Charles County, Diaz-Silva translated for a man
accused of assaulting a police officer. The judge was trying to determine
whether he qualified for a public defender.

"I don't know, I really don't know, but I think not," Diaz-Silva translated in a
word-for-word response to a judge's question about whether the man could get
money from family or friends.

"It's very important to them, and very concerning, because they are generally
good people," she says of her work. "It's nice to have somebody who knows the
language."

Registration ends Friday for a two-day court interpreter workshop to be held in
St. Louis in June. This summer's workshop will be open to all languages, and
Launius hopes to get some who speak Russian and Bosnian because of their growing
area population.

Court interpreters workshop

WHAT: The workshop for court interpreters is open to speakers of any combination
of English and other language. The workshop is the first step in getting
certified. Written and oral exams must be taken later.

WHEN: Class meets June 12 and 13, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.

WHERE: St. Louis Community College at Forest Park, 5600 Oakland Avenue, St.
Louis.

COST: Fees for registration and materials are $125 plus $14 for criminal history
background checks for Missouri residents and adjacent counties in surrounding
states.

TO APPLY: Call the Access to Justice Program at 1-573-751-4377 or e-mail Phyllis
Launius at phyllis_launius@osca.state.mo.us. Registration must be received by
Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Valerie Schremp/ E-mail: vschremp@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
636-255-7211

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              209 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 28, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

COAST GUARD INTERCEPTS 651 HAITIANS, SENDS THEM HOME

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The United States sent 651 Haitians back to their troubled Caribbean homeland
Tuesday, days after they were intercepted in overloaded sailing vessels off the
coast of Haiti.

Coast Guard officials said none of the immigrants was injured and most were in
good condition when they were picked up at sea Friday and Saturday. The three
vessels that carried them were destroyed.

A total of 1,948 Haitians have been interdicted and returned so far this year,
Coast Guard officials said. The number has already surpassed those of the two
previous years: 1,490 in 2003 and 1,287 in 2002.

"Our stepped-up presence off the coast of Haiti continues for the purpose of
saving lives, by rescuing those already on the water in boats, and by deterring
those who may be considering migration by sea," Capt. Wayne Justice said.

The repatriations come as a multinational force works to stabilize Haiti
following the Feb. 29 departure of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who fled
under pressure from the United States and France and a popular rebellion led by
former soldiers of the disbanded Haitian army.

The Haitians returned Tuesday were dropped off in Port-au-Prince by a Coast
Guard cutter.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              210 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            April 28, 2004 Wednesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

SOMEONE WHO SPEAKS THEIR LANGUAGE

BYLINE: Valerie Schremp/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 740 words


* As more immigrants and refugees move into the area, demand grows for courtroom
interpreters.

For more than a few of us, it's not hard to imagine getting a traffic ticket and
going to court.

But imagine getting a traffic ticket, going to court, and the judge speaks to
you in Farsi.

That's great, if you happen to speak Farsi. But what if you don't? For that
matter, you may barely know legalese.

As more immigrants and refugees move into Missouri and Illinois, more
interpreters will be needed to help them if they need to go to court for a
traffic ticket, a divorce hearing or even a major crime.

Missouri's Hispanic population increased 93 percent from 1990 to 2000, and more
people who speak other languages are moving into the state. Last year, Spanish
was the most requested language for interpreters in Missouri courts, with over a
third of the state's counties asking for assistance. Vietnamese, Chinese,
Bosnian (Serbo-Croatian) and Somali were the next most requested languages.
Among the requests were one from Lincoln County for a Czech interpreter, a
request from Clay County for a Punjabi interpreter, and a request from Platte
County for a Laotian interpreter.

And yes, there came a time last year in a St. Louis courtroom when somebody
needed to interpret the Iranian language of Farsi.

Though interpreters don't need to be certified in Missouri, the state
administrators who oversee the courts would like them to be.

"A lot of folks think that being bilingual is enough," says Phyllis Launius, who
works with the Office of the State Courts Administrator and oversees the
interpreter program. "It really isn't. In court, you can have everything from
auto parts to body parts. You never know what it will be. You need a good grasp
for both languages."

Illinois does not require its interpreters to be certified and does not have a
formal certification program, said Joseph Tybor, press secretary for the
Illinois Supreme Court. Individual circuit courts rely on a registry of about
200 interpreters, the majority of whom speak Spanish. The Hispanic population in
Illinois increased 55.7 percent from 1990 to 2000.

Two of Missouri's 15 certified court interpreters, all of whom speak Spanish,
live in the St. Louis area.

Carolina Diaz-Silva, 28, a graduate student in Spanish literature at Washington
University, hopes to interpret full time. She averages two appointments a week
and expects more work once she passes the federal interpreter certification
process, which is more stringent than Missouri's. She works in courts in St.
Louis and the Metro East area.

Diaz-Silva grew up in Peru but has studied English since she was 5. That
background has helped her during intense situations in the courtroom. She has to
interpret everything that's going on, even the testimony of witnesses or the
back-and-forth conversation that often occurs when a lawyer makes an objection.

At a recent hearing in St. Charles County, Diaz-Silva translated for a man
accused of assaulting a police officer. The judge was trying to determine
whether he qualified for a public defender.

"I don't know, I really don't know, but I think not," Diaz-Silva translated in a
word-for-word response to a judge's question about whether the man could get
money from family or friends.

"It's very important to them, and very concerning, because they are generally
good people," she says of her work. "It's nice to have somebody who knows the
language."

Registration ends Friday for a two-day court interpreter workshop to be held in
St. Louis in June. This summer's workshop will be open to all languages, and
Launius hopes to get some who speak Russian and Bosnian because of their growing
area population.

Court interpreters workshop

WHAT: The workshop for court interpreters is open to speakers of any combination
of English and other language. The workshop is the first step in getting
certified. Written and oral exams must be taken later.

WHEN: Class meets June 12 and 13, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.

WHERE: St. Louis Community College at Forest Park, 5600 Oakland Avenue, St.
Louis.

COST: Fees for registration and materials are $125 plus $14 for criminal history
background checks for Missouri residents and adjacent counties in surrounding
states.

TO APPLY: Call the Access to Justice Program at 1-573-751-4377 or e-mail Phyllis
Launius at phyllis_launius@osca.state.mo.us. Registration must be received by
Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Valerie Schremp/ E-mail: vschremp@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
636-255-7211

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO - Carolina Diaz-Silva/ Graduate student hopes to interpret
full time

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              211 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 28, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Edition

IMMIGRANT BOOM FUELS NEED FOR COURTROOM INTERPRETERS

BYLINE: Valerie Schremp/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 656 words


* The 15 certified in Missouri all speak Spanish, but officials say the demand
for other languages is growing.

For more than a few of us, it's not hard to imagine getting a traffic ticket and
going to court.

But imagine getting a traffic ticket, going to court, and the judge speaks to
you in Farsi.

That's great, if you happen to speak Farsi. But what if you don't? For that
matter, you may barely know legalese.

As more immigrants and refugees move into Missouri and Illinois, more
interpreters will be needed to help them if they need to go to court for a
traffic ticket, a divorce hearing or even a major crime.

Missouri's Hispanic population increased 93 percent from 1990 to 2000, and more
people who speak other languages are moving into the state. Last year, Spanish
was the most requested language for interpreters in Missouri courts, with over a
third of the state's counties asking for assistance. Vietnamese, Chinese,
Bosnian (Serbo-Croatian) and Somali were the next most requested languages.
Among the requests were one from Lincoln County for a Czech interpreter, a
request from Clay County for a Punjabi interpreter, and a request from Platte
County for a Laotian interpreter.

And yes, there came a time last year in a St. Louis courtroom when somebody
needed to interpret the Iranian language of Farsi.

Though interpreters don't need to be certified in Missouri, the state
administrators who oversee the courts would like them to be.

"A lot of folks think that being bilingual is enough," says Phyllis Launius, who
works with the Office of the State Courts Administrator and oversees the
interpreter program. "It really isn't. In court, you can have everything from
auto parts to body parts. You never know what it will be. You need a good grasp
for both languages."

Illinois does not require its interpreters to be certified and does not have a
formal certification program, said Joseph Tybor, press secretary for the
Illinois Supreme Court. Individual circuit courts rely on a registry of about
200 interpreters, the majority of whom speak Spanish. The Hispanic population in
Illinois increased 55.7 percent from 1990 to 2000.

Two of Missouri's 15 certified court interpreters, all of whom speak Spanish,
live in the St. Louis area.

Carolina Diaz-Silva, 28, a graduate student in Spanish literature at Washington
University, hopes to interpret full time. She averages two appointments a week
and expects more work once she passes the federal interpreter certification
process, which is more stringent than Missouri's. She works in courts in St.
Louis and the Metro East area.

Diaz-Silva grew up in Peru but has studied English since she was 5. That
background has helped her during intense situations in the courtroom. She has to
interpret everything that's going on, even the testimony of witnesses or the
back-and-forth conversation that often occurs when a lawyer makes an objection.

At a recent hearing in St. Charles County, Diaz-Silva translated for a man
accused of assaulting a police officer. The judge was trying to determine
whether he qualified for a public defender.

"I don't know, I really don't know, but I think not," Diaz-Silva translated in a
word-for-word response to a judge's question about whether the man could get
money from family or friends.

"It's very important to them, and very concerning, because they are generally
good people," she says of her work. "It's nice to have somebody who knows the
language."

Registration ends Friday for a two-day court interpreter workshop to be held in
St. Louis in June. This summer's workshop will be open to all languages, and
Launius hopes to get some who speak Russian and Bosnian because of their growing
area population.

To apply for the interpreters workshop, call the Access to Jus tice Program at
1-573-751-4377 or e-mail Phyllis Launius at phyllis_launius@osca.state.mo.us.
Registration must be received by Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Valerie Schremp/ E-mail: vschremp@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
636-255-7211

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo headshot - Carolina Diaz-Silva

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              212 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 30, 2004 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 701 words


WASHINGTON

Experts report theory on childhood asthma

High concentrations of carbon dioxide in city air may be stimulating abnormal
growth of ragweed and other plants that aggravate childhood asthma, health
experts warned Thursday.

Although the incidence of asthma has increased among all age groups, the
sharpest increase has been among children under 4, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

The CDC reported in 1998 that from 1980 to 1994, incidence of the respiratory
disease among preschoolers increased by 160 percent.

Harvard Medical School researcher Christine Rogers said the increase, which
appears to be most severe among city children, may be related to the fact that
carbon dioxide causes some highly allergenic plants to produce abnormal levels
of pollen.

PITTSBURGH

Bishops' racism charge was wrong, official says

A group of Methodist bishops was wrong to accuse immigration officials of racism
for denying visas to 25 foreign delegates to a church conference in Pittsburgh,
a State Department official said Thursday.

Retired United Methodist Bishop Marshall Meadors said U.S. immigration policies
are "racist and unjust" after Filipino and African delegates were denied
nonimmigrant visas to attend the conference, which runs through May 7.

Stewart Patt, spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs,
said U.S. policy dictates that people seeking nonimmigrant visas must
demonstrate strong ties to their home countries.

MARLTON, N.J.

Contractors are cited in garage collapse

Four contractors were cited for safety violations in a casino garage collapse
last year that killed four construction workers, the federal Occupational Safety
and Health Administration said Thursday.

The collapse also injured 20 others when the top five floors of the Tropicana
Casino and Resort garage caved Oct. 30.

Fabi Construction Co., which was overseeing construction of the concrete floors,
was issued six of the nine citations. The company also was slapped with a
"willful" violation, which carries a potential $70,000 fine.

Also cited were Keating Building Corp., Mitchell Bar Placement Inc. and Site
Blauvelt Engineers.

The agency did not say what caused the collapse or release a report after a
six-month investigation. The citations call for penalties totaling $119,500.

SAN FRANCISCO

Pipeline break sends diesel fuel into marsh

A pipeline that pumps petroleum from refineries in the San Francisco Bay area
ruptured, gushing diesel fuel into a marsh that serves as a key nesting ground
for migratory birds and prompting an emergency cleanup effort Thursday.

The exact amount spilled into Suisun Marsh, about 25 miles northeast of San
Francisco, won't be known until the pipe is fixed and refilled, officials said.
A worst-case scenario put the damage at 1 million gallons, said Mark Merchant, a
spokesman for the Environmental Protection Agency.

However, the spill may involve only a few hundred gallons, said Dana Michaels, a
spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game, and was limited to a
diked area of roughly 600 acres, so the fuel can't escape to the rest of the
marsh.

The pipeline, which carries fuel from Bay-area refineries to Reno, Nev.,
ruptured sometime Tuesday.

Environmental officials were told about it Wednesday, and the leak was expected
to be repaired late Thursday.

WICHITA, Kan.

Beef is recalled over possible E. coli

Excel Corp., a meatpacking unit of Cargill Inc., is recalling 45,030 pounds of
ground beef because it may contain harmful E. coli bacteria.

Excel announced the recall Thursday. The Wichita-based company said it packaged
the ground beef in 10-pound cylindrical tubes with a use or freeze by date of
April 29, but the meat likely was repackaged by retail stores.

The meat, which was produced at Excel's Dodge City plant, was sold to
distributors in nine states, including Illinois and Missouri.

Excel said no illnesses have been associated with the beef and most of it
probably has been eaten.

The company suggested that consumers ask their grocers if ground beef they sold
is involved in the recall. The company also established a hot line,
1-800-267-6946.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              213 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    April 30, 2004 Friday Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 713 words


WASHINGTON

Experts report theory on childhood asthma

High concentrations of carbon dioxide in city air may be stimulating abnormal
growth of ragweed and other plants that aggravate childhood asthma, health
experts warned Thursday.

Although the incidence of asthma has increased among all age groups, the
sharpest increase has been among children under 4, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

The CDC reported in 1998 that from 1980 to 1994, incidence of the respiratory
disease among preschoolers increased by 160 percent.

Harvard Medical School researcher Christine Rogers said the increase, which
appears to be most severe among city children, may be related to the fact that
carbon dioxide causes some highly allergenic plants to produce abnormal levels
of pollen.

PITTSBURGH

Bishops' racism charge was wrong, official says

A group of Methodist bishops was wrong to accuse immigration officials of racism
for denying visas to 25 foreign delegates to a church conference in Pittsburgh,
a State Department official said Thursday.

Retired United Methodist Bishop Marshall Meadors said U.S. immigration policies
are "racist and unjust" after Filipino and African delegates were denied
nonimmigrant visas to attend the conference, which runs through May 7.

Stewart Patt, spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs,
said U.S. policy dictates that people seeking nonimmigrant visas must
demonstrate strong ties to their home countries.

MARLTON, N.J.

Contractors are cited in garage collapse

Four contractors were cited for safety violations in a casino garage collapse
last year that killed four construction workers, the federal Occupational Safety
and Health Administration said Thursday.

The collapse also injured 20 others when the top five floors of the Tropicana
Casino and Resort garage caved Oct. 30.

Fabi Construction Co., which was overseeing construction of the concrete floors,
was issued six of the nine citations. The company also was slapped with a
"willful" violation, which carries a potential $70,000 fine.

Also cited were Keating Building Corp., Mitchell Bar Placement Inc. and Site
Blauvelt Engineers.

The agency did not say what caused the collapse or release a report after a
six-month investigation. The citations call for penalties totaling $119,500.

SAN FRANCISCO

Pipeline break sends diesel fuel into marsh

A pipeline that pumps petroleum from refineries in the San Francisco Bay area
ruptured, gushing diesel fuel into a marsh that serves as a key nesting ground
for migratory birds and prompting an emergency cleanup effort Thursday.

The exact amount spilled into Suisun Marsh, about 25 miles northeast of San
Francisco, won't be known until the pipe is fixed and refilled, officials said.
A worst-case scenario put the damage at 1 million gallons, said Mark Merchant, a
spokesman for the Environmental Protection Agency.

However, the spill may involve only a few hundred gallons, said Dana Michaels, a
spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game, and was limited to a
diked area of roughly 600 acres, so the fuel can't escape to the rest of the
marsh.

The pipeline, which carries fuel from Bay-area refineries to Reno, Nev.,
ruptured sometime Tuesday.

Environmental officials were told about it Wednesday, and the leak was expected
to be repaired late Thursday.

HARRISBURG, Pa.

Former lawmaker's sentence is upheld

The state Supreme Court upheld a prison sentence Thursday for former
Pennsylvania Rep. Thomas Druce, who struck and killed a man in his sport utility
vehicle in 1999 and fled the scene.

Druce pleaded guilty of leaving the scene of a fatal accident, insurance fraud
and tampering with evidence in 2000. He was sentenced to two to four years in
prison but served less than two months before being freed on bail.

Last year, his lawyers urged Pennsylvania's highest court to overturn the
sentence, arguing that the trial judge's comments to a reporter before
sentencing created the appearance of bias against Druce.

In Thursday's majority opinion, justices found that Dauphin County Judge Joseph
Kleinfelter violated conduct rules when he spoke about the case to The
Associated Press but that he was not required to recuse himself.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 2, 2004 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

EX-MACEDONIAN OFFICIAL IS CHARGED IN KILLINGS/ HE ALLEGEDLY ORDERED EXECUTIONS
OF 7 FALSELY ACCUSED OF TERRORISM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: SKOPJE, MACEDONIA


Police accused Macedonia's former interior minister Saturday of ordering the
killings of seven Pakistani immigrants he falsely accused of being terrorists to
show support for the war on terrorism. Six others also were accused in the
killings in March 2002.

The former minister, Ljube Boskovski, who oversaw the police, is suspected of
ordering the executions of the seven men after publicly claiming they were a
terrorist group planning to attack foreign embassies in Macedonia, police
spokeswoman Mirjana Konteska told The Associated Press.

"We believe that Boskovski played the crucial role in this," Konteska said.

The police charges are the first step in a legal process likely to lead to an
official indictment and a trial. The suspects could face life in prison if
convicted.

On Friday, authorities acknowledged that the killings were in fact executions of
illegal immigrants, who were not terrorists, as part of a plot to promote the
Balkan country as a player in the fight against global terrorism.

A U.S. State Department official said on condition of anonymity that the United
States had pressed for an inquiry and was pleased there finally would be one.

Since breaking away from Yugoslavia in 1991, Macedonia has been eager to win
U.S. political and economic support in efforts to join Western organizations.

Macedonia has been a close U.S. ally in the Balkans, has staunchly supported the
U.S.-led war on terrorism and has sent troops to Iraq.

The proceedings against Boskovski were made possible after a parliamentary
committee stripped him of the immunity from prosecution he enjoyed as a
legislator in the Balkan republic's assembly.

But his lawyers claimed Saturday that the entire parliament must vote to strip
him of his immunity in order for it to be valid.

Protesting what his lawyers described as procedural irregularities, Boskovski
also refused to appear before an investigative judge hearing the case. Under
Macedonia law, that could lead to his detention.

In March 2002, senior police officials said the seven Pakistani men were killed
after ambushing a police patrol. But Konteska said the plan to set up the
Pakistanis and kill them was made by top police officials a month earlier, and
the men were brought to Macedonia from neighboring Bul garia before being shot
outside the capital, Skopje.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              215 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 2, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

FAMILIES SPLIT UP AS MONEY BECKONS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1125 words

DATELINE: RANCHO LA PURISIMA, MEXICO


In a bedroom that doubles as the living room of this weathered-brick farmhouse,
only a collage of photographs on the dresser can keep Dona Reyna's family
together.

There is the grandson in Fairmont City, astride a wooden horse. The shots of
grandchildren in nearby San Juan de los Lagos. The cheerleader at Collinsville
High School. And the baby pictures of two grandchildren -- no longer babies --
in Chicago.

Just one photograph, taken at a daughter's debutante party 18 years ago, is
there to remind Reyna of the time when her family was intact: her husband alive,
all eight children at home.

Francisco "was the first to leave. He was just 15," Reyna said. "It was very
sad." (Her son's name is a pseudonym; he is an undocumented worker in Fairmont
City.)

Today, Reyna's voice betrays little of that emotion as she matter-of-factly
details the departures, one by one, of three sons and a daughter to Illinois.
For here in this central western Mexico community of small dairy farms and
fallow cornfields, it is not surprising that they would go. At least 50 of the
residents in this community of 250 have left for the United States.

Many more, including Reyna's other children, are itching to follow.

Her son Heriberto came back in 2002 for what he thought was a short family visit
after four years in Fairmont City. But when his father died in a car crash that
December, he felt duty-bound to stay, the only male left. Someone had to milk
the dozen cows that provide the family's sustenance.

"What do I miss most? Those damned dollars," says Heriberto, 30, as he sat in a
pen surrounded by calves. "We get 180 liters of milk a day from these cows,
which brings in about 4,000 pesos (just over $350) every 10 days or so. That's
not a lot. That's why I want to go back."

His older sister, Beatriz, crochets tablecloths at the rate of one a week for
$22 to help pay for her own clothing. At 32, she has never lived anywhere else.
But her eyes shine bright with plans to cross illegally and join her two
brothers in Fairmont City or her sister in Chicago -- maybe this spring.

Their cousin on the adjoining farm, Hugo, also yearns to leave. He wears a faded
St. Louis Cardinals cap that a brother in Fairmont City bought for him. The
first brother left over two decades ago, and five other brothers followed.
Today, all six live in Fairmont City, and all but one have managed to legalize
their status there.

"I want to go, too, but my brothers told me to wait until they arrange for my
papers," Hugo says as he and his brother Gerardo take turns attaching milking
machines to the family's 23 dairy cows. He repeats the job each morning at 5 and
each afternoon at 4. "I'm looking for a better life than what we have here," he
says.

The magnetic pull toward better lives and better salaries makes for a constant
turnover among families here. In San Juan de los Lagos, Francisco's
mother-in-law, Asuncion Martinez, has also lived with the grief of never-ending
goodbyes.

Martinez, 53, grew up in a family of 11 children, of whom just three remain in
Mexico; the rest are in the United States.

"They all went as illegals," she says. "All of them are now legal residents
because of the 1986 amnesty. My children followed them."

Martinez has 11 children. Six live in Mexico, four of them with her in her
two-bedroom home. The oldest five all left for the United States, including
Maria, who is married to Francisco and lives with him in Fairmont City.

Maria remembers vividly her own pain when her younger brother Guadalupe became
the first to leave in 1990 when his job as a carpenter's apprentice couldn't
make ends meet for the family. Their father was a janitor at the cathedral in
San Juan de los Lagos, which attracts Catholic pilgrims from across the world.
He had died two years earlier in a fall from one of the bell towers he had been
asked to grease that day.

The already poor family became destitute.

"Some days, we'd have nothing but beans to eat, so the oldest ones, we went to
work. My brother at 15, the one younger than me, came to the United States,"
said Maria, 30, in the living room of her Fairmont City home. She bursts into
tears at the memory. "He worked in the countryside, living in a trailer, picking
apples."

A sister married and left that year. Then another brother in 1996. Then Maria,
after she married Francisco that same year. Then a brother in 2002.

Such departures are so common, they are memorialized in lyrics by popular
Mexican music groups, including the rock band Mana. When her third sibling left,
Lorena, who stayed behind, put a compact disc into the family's stereo and made
her brother listen to the words of a song titled "The Desert" as a reminder to
return:

. . . Now I'm going away far from my hometown,

Packing my bags, putting away memories of love.

Now I'm going up North,

Leaving my girlfriend, my streets, my people

And my Mexico...

. . . I won't cry while I walk.

The desert and the moon will come with me.

Today I don't know where the train is going.

But I swear to you, my love, I will come back for you . . .

The song was an enormous hit when it came out in 1992. It's still popular in the
Martinez household, where the older siblings abroad rarely return to visit. Most
are married with children and don't want to risk an illegal return to the United
States. Maria, with a 6-year-old son and an 18-month-old daughter born in
Fairmont City, has never returned since leaving eight years ago.

But her oldest child, the boy astride the wooden horse in Dona Reyna's photo
collage, has made the trip; as a U.S. citizen he could go back and forth freely.

"I sent him to visit his grandmothers when he was 2 years old," Maria says. He
traveled with one of Francisco's cousins who also is a legal resident.

Maria feels she has no choice as an undocumented immigrant but to stay on the
Fairmont City side of the U.S.-Mexican border. For her children's sake, she
won't leave and risk losing the minimum-wage work she gets with the help of a
falsified permanent residency card. Even so, the security she clings to here is
tenuous, at best.

In mid-April, her supervisor at a local factory gathered the handful of
undocumented Mexican workers there on their lunch break -- including Maria --
and fired them from their $5.50-an-hour jobs. The federal government had
officially notified the company of what Maria said her bosses already knew: that
the workers' Social Security numbers were fake and didn't match their names. Yet
she stays, and takes comfort in the fact that there are no such risks for her
U.S.-born son and daughter.

"I know my children won't ever have to fight like I have," Maria says. "They're
citizens, whether they like it or not."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE/First
in a four-part series

NOTES: HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/ Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/
E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP(2) Post-Dispatch Graphic/Map - MEXICO/ Shows
locations of: Mexicali, Nogales, Puebla, El Salto in ZACATECAS STATE and Rancho
La Purisima in JALISCO STATE. ; (1) Photo by HUY RICHARD MACH / POST-DISPATCH -
Heriberto, who once lived and worked in Fairmont City, has run his family's farm
in Rancho La Purisima, Mexico, since returning home for what he thought would be
a short visit in 2002. After his father died in a car crash, Heriberto decided
to stay.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              216 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 3, 2004 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

EL SALTO ST. LOUIS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso/ Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2436 words

DATELINE: EL SALTO, MEXICO


* Money that Mexican workers earn here pays for food, schooling and sometimes a
luxury back home in poor villages. But the benefits bring hardships: Family
members left behind struggle alone, waiting for the next call from St. Louis.

The burro next door is braying. The roosters, pumped with steroids for the next
cockfight, compete this morning with their crowing. But it is the sound of the
first announcement crackling from the loudspeakers atop the Carrillo grocery
that truly alerts this town of 700 that a new day has dawned.

"Senora ----," Elvia Carrillo sounds out the name of the first housewife of the
day to receive a call from the United States. "It's your husband, and he's
holding on the line."

From 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., wives and parents and children in El Salto cock their
heads at the speakers' crackle, hoping their names will be called. Those with
loved ones on the line will race down the rocky dirt roads, past the canned
goods at Carrillo's to another type of sustenance: the conversations between
relatives during the months, and even years, spent apart.

El Salto is just one among many poor towns in Mexico that send scores of people
to work in the United States, both legally and illegally. For decades, such
towns have been a migration source for cities such as Los Angeles and Chicago.
Now they are forging chains of migration to less-traditional destinations,
including St. Louis.

Here in El Salto, nearly everyone has at least one relative in St. Louis.

Carrillo says 40 percent of the calls from abroad made to her grocery's phone
booths now come from the St. Louis area. When boys gather to play volleyball in
front of the crumbling church each afternoon, it's not rare to see one wearing a
T-shirt with a St. Louis company's logo emblazoned on the back.

The money that workers send from St. Louis is much in evidence.

Guadalupe, 63, is a retiree who lives a life of relative luxury here, thanks to
the $600 he gets each month from his three sons in Fairmont City. His sons --
two of whom are undocumented workers -- have been working in Fairmont City, on
the northern edge of East St. Louis, for more than a decade. They paid to
install a telephone line in their father's home, a rare sight in a town that
relies heavily on grocery phone lines for access to the outside world.

Guadalupe also has two vans and a pickup in a place where a car is an
extravagance. His sons bought them in the St. Louis area, then drove them down
to their father, who used one van to earn a living providing El Salto with a
shuttle service to the closest big town, Villanueva. And with the sons' help,
Guadalupe left that job three years ago for another rare luxury: retirement.

The home of Chuy Carrillo, 40, shows the benefits reaped from eight illegal
border crossings to work in the United States. While the neighbors' bony cows
ramble unencumbered through the streets of El Salto, he keeps his robust
Charolais bull and sleek Swiss cows penned in his front yard.

"That Charolais bull, I bought it a year ago for a thousand U.S. dollars, and I
paid a thousand dollars for that Swiss cow, too," said Carrillo, who packed
produce in St. Louis 80 hours a week for a $500 salary to buy the prized cattle
and to provide for his wife and four children.

Those dollars are running low since Carrillo brought his last paycheck home from
St. Louis almost a year ago. He's made do by helping build additions to the
homes of those who have gone abroad. But that work pays little, so Carrillo is
preparing for another crossing through the Arizona desert to reach St. Louis.
And he plans to take others from El Salto when he goes.

"I usually go with about three or four other people from here," Carrillo said.
"I'll stay there a year or more and then come back. You have to feed your kids.
Here, I earn 1,300 pesos a week." That's less than $130.

Life in El Salto

While the dollars earned abroad can provide for some luxury items, many families
here say the money cabled from family in the United States rarely pays for more
than the basics: food, housing and school fees.

Leticia Betancourt, 40, said her husband sends $100 a week from his earnings at
a St. Louis ice factory -- far more than he made sowing corn and beans in El
Salto.

"He's been working in St. Louis for seven months, and he's gone to work two or
three times before on a tourist visa," says Betancourt, after emerging from a
phone booth at another grocery in town, to take a weekly call from her husband.
"He does it for our basic necessities. For two years, we've wanted to build a
bathroom in our house, but we still can't afford that. Because we have two of
our children studying in Villanueva, we use the money for them."

Public schools are "free" here, but for poor families in rural towns, the costs
associated with them can be prohibitive. For the bare-bones elementary school in
El Salto, the costs are minimal. Parents pitch in about $10 a year to help pay
for upkeep; they take turns cleaning and painting the classrooms when needed;
and, each day at lunchtime, mothers walk to the school with buckets of tortillas
and beans.

The price of attending better-equipped public schools in Villanueva is much
higher. Registration fees are about $25 a year, but the costs soar from there.
The parents, not the government, must find a way to get their children to town.
It's less than five miles away, but it takes a bumpy 20-minute ride on deeply
rutted roads to get there. (The government is preparing to pave the roads, with
the help of money from migrants abroad.)

Most families don't have cars, so they must pay for someone else to drive their
children to school. Then they also must pay for their children's meals while in
town. Computer fees are extra. And once they enter junior high school, they must
pay for textbooks, too.

So it's rare for El Salto natives to have much more than an elementary
education. If they stay in El Salto, their lot in life usually boils down to
three choices: farming a small plot of nonirrigated land, working construction
or competing for the unskilled work available in Villanueva.

For many, the idea of working just as hard but for at least five times the pay
abroad is often an irresistible option.

The urge hit Guadalupe's son Hector when he was 18. He first crossed into the
United States to work in California vineyards and hotels. He returned home,
where he found work as a furniture deliveryman in Villanueva. But the urge hit
again in 1994. He left for a job packing produce in St. Louis and became one of
a growing chain of workers who were leaving El Salto and making their home in
Fairmont City. Hector and his brother followed an older brother, who had crossed
over the year before at the urging of another relative.

"One of my brothers came to Fairmont City and he told me to come here, because
in California, you pay a lot of rent and there aren't a lot of jobs," said
Hector, now 34, in an interview in Fairmont City, where he has lived for a
decade. "A lot of people have come here from California."

The cycle has repeated among siblings, cousins and in-laws in El Salto. Those
who first arrive in the St. Louis area herald the abundance of jobs, as well as
the lower cost of living and lower crime rates -- especially in Fairmont City --
compared with big-city migration destinations such as Chicago or Los Angeles.

The demand in St. Louis for low-skilled workers willing to work for m inimum
wage or just above is great and widespread. Jobs are available in big and small
companies: cleaning hotel rooms, working in restaurants, packing everything from
produce to dish soap, hauling scrap metal, tending to trees in nurseries, mowing
lawns and spreading mulch for landscapers.

El Salto homes, St. Louis money

Some of the workers are undocumented and pay for false Social Security cards and
visas that enable them to get jobs. But in recent years, many men from El Salto
and neighboring towns are securing seasonal visas mainly to work with local
landscapers in the St. Louis area.

One is Alfredo Hernandez, 28, whose truck is plastered with St. Louis Cardinals
emblems. Like the undocumented workers who have gone to St. Louis, he, too, is
following in the footsteps of a relative.

"I've been going for four years," Hernandez said in an interview in March as he
was preparing to leave El Salto for another nine-month stint in St. Louis. "An
uncle of mine works there. He was in California, but went to St. Louis because
the rent is a lot cheaper, and there's more work to go around. There's about 70
of us going back soon from all over."

Rito Arjon, 48, earned $8.50 an hour last year as a landscaper with Baxter
Gardens of Chesterfield. He was getting ready to go back, but when a local
recruiter showed up in early March with Baxter's list of seasonal-visa workers
for this year, Arjon's name wasn't on it. It was an enormous blow -- one that
had him wondering whether he should listen to neighbors' advice and cross
illegally to find other work.

"I used that money to send my children to school in Villanueva, and for food,"
said Arjon, who has four children. "Here, I just work on people's houses for
(less than $80 or $90 a week). It's so little. People keep telling me I should
cross over illegally."

Ruben Marquez, 53, built an addition to his home with the $7-an-hour wages he
earned cutting lawns and planting trees for Top Care Lawn Service in St. Louis.
He, too, didn't make a recruiter's list and anticipates a hard year of getting
by on whatever job is available to care for his wife and seven children.

"We'll have to suffer here," Marquez said dejectedly. "Going there helps out a
lot. We built a room with last year's money."

Jesus Carrillo Carrera, 54, has been building other people's homes in El Salto
for many years. He is working on an enormous expansion of the home of Baudelio
Martinez, whose son in Chicago is helping pay for the addition of three rooms
and a hallway.

Like many of his neighbors, Carrillo grumbles about the pay -- less than $100 a
week. But unlike most of the men in El Salto, Carrillo has never crossed over
the border. He may not be able to own his own home here, but he believes it
would be far worse to live in hiding as an undocumented worker in the United
States.

"I've never gone. Why should I even try? Why should I be out there, hiding as if
I'd murdered someone?" Carrillo said, as he walked one lovely morning in El
Salto, where man and beast -- pigs, dogs, horses, cows and an occasional burro
-- amble the streets. "They treat working there as if it were a crime. I don't
have enough to build a house here, but at least I can walk freely in the
streets."

The magnet of jobs

The small-town freedom is a powerful draw in El Salto, but just as powerful is
the magnet of better-paying jobs elsewhere. It's been that way for as long as
Juanita Galvan, 63, can remember.

She is a native of El Salto but left for Mexico City when she was a teen. At the
time, many of El Salto's men were being lured north by the Bracero Program, an
agricultural guest-worker accord between the United States and Mexico that had
been launched at the onset of World War II.

"I left here in 1957 for Mexico City because there was no work here," said
Galvan, who returned to El Salto to retire 30 years later. "Then, the Bracero
Program was the only help we had. There was no help from the government, so we
went elsewhere."

Today, Galvan says, the Mexican government offers more in Social Security
payments and programs for the poor. But good jobs are just as scarce. Her son
left El Salto 12 years ago and has worked illegally in Denver ever since. His
status has kept him from returning, she says. But his four children, all born in
the United States and citizens there, can travel freely.

"They'll come for a month during the summer," she says happily.

The children, like the adults, revel in the small-town freedom to wander about
unchecked. Elvia Carrillo, whose family owns the grocery of the same name, has
two teenagers living in the United States and her 5-year-old son in El Salto.

"My youngest, he was born in Las Vegas, but he loves El Salto," Carrillo said.
"He only wants to leave (to go to the United States) at Christmastime, because
there, he gets gifts. He doesn't get any here."

"You want to be with them, but you can't"

For many children in El Salto, the Christmas season brings another type of gift:
time with their fathers, who have spent most of the year abroad.

That is the case for the children of Jose Belmontes, 35. He and his brothers
Andres and Alejandro work on seasonal visas with Loyet Landscape Maintenance for
nine months, when they save money by living with their sister's family in a
cramped mobile home in Fairmont City.

All three cable money to their wives for living expenses, and then return home
in December with more to buy bricks and cement to expand their homes to
accommodate their expanding families.

They endured a tearful parting from their families one Sunday night in late
February as they prepared to get on a bus that would take them on the first leg
of their trip back to St. Louis.

"You want to be with them, but you can't," Jose Belmontes said as he prepared to
board the bus headed north. "You have to make a life for them."

The next day, Jose's son, Cuco, 5, described the goodbye scene at home: "My
mother cried last night, because my father left."

This year, Maricela, Jose's wife, will find his absence even harder to take.

"I'm going to have another baby in late May or June. When Lulu was born (two
years ago), he came home early to see her birth in late August," said Maricela,
30, whose voice trails into quiet sobs because she knows the timing of this
pregnancy won't allow Jose to return for the birth of their child this year.

So until next December, Maricela will anxiously cock her head toward each
crackle from the loudspeakers atop Carrillo's grocery. That's what she did from
the moment her husband left that night in late February. Two nights later, Elvia
Carrillo picked up the microphone at the cashier's stand and her voice carried
throughout El Salto:

"Senora Maricela Tovar . . . You have a call and they're holding on the line."

Maricela bolted, beaming, from her dinner of beans and tortillas to the store. A
brief seven-minute phone call from Fairmont City, like the wired $100 that would
follow from Jose's first paycheck, helped fill one more void in El Salto.

* * * * *

Ten men from a van stuck in Maryville median may be undocumented Mexicans,
police say. B4

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE/HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/Second
in a four-part series

NOTES: LEAVING HOME, FINDING HOPE HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TURN TO ST. LOUIS/
Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso/ E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
202-298-6880/ / Second in a four-part series/ Tuesday: CROSSING/CONFLICT -
Volunteers and vigilantes patrol the Arizona border in an attempt to keep
illegal immigrants out of the United States./ Sunday: SOLUTIONS/POLITICS -
Missouri and Illinois employers are hiring thousands of legal foreign workers,
but here and nationwide the demand has far outstripped the legal limits. A look
at the controversy over proposals to legalize more workers./ / Series
background/ Post-Dispatch reporter Karen Branch-Brioso was one of 17 Border
Justice fellows named last fall by the University of Southern California's
Annenberg Institute for Justice and Journalism. The institute sponsored an
eight-day conference in November in towns along both sides of the U.S.-Mexican
border. The Post-Dispatch assumed the balance of the costs for this report,
which looks at the impact of stepped-up border security on immigrants in the St.
Louis area./ This series in one instance uses a pseudonym and in others uses
real names but omits surnames to protect the identities of immigrants who are in
the United States illegally. These were the only conditions under which these
immigrants would be interviewed. Actual names are used for immigrants here
legally, and for family members in Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photo by HUY RICHARD MACH / POST-DISPATCH - A crowd of
mostly young men and boys gathers at the church to play pickup volleyball in El
Salto, Mexico, in March. El Salto is one of many poor villages that send scores
of people to work in the United States, both legally and illegally. Nearly
everyone in the town now has at least one relative in St. Louis./ (2) Photos by
HUY RICHARD MACH / Post-Dispatch - Jesus Carrillo Carrera, 54, earns less than
$100 a week working on houses in El Salto, Mexico. Although the pay is low, he
has never crossed over the border to work in the United States because he
believes it would be worse to live in hiding as an illegal worker./ (3) Victoria
Montalvo (right) joins other parents in El Salto, Mexico, as they clean and
paint the classroom at the town's bare-bones elementary school. Families provide
lunch for the students -- tortillas and beans -- and pitch in about $10 year to
cover upkeep./ (4) Karen Vazquez, 11, and her family live near her grandfather,
Guadalupe, in El Salto, Mexico. Guadalupe's sons, who are undocumented workers
in Fairmont City, send him $600 a month, with which he lives a life of relative
luxury./ (5) Photo - Residents of the poor town of El Salto, Mexico, are able to
pay for the basics -- food, housing and school fees -- with money sent by
relatives working in the United States. It is rare for El Salto natives to have
much more than an elementary education.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              217 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 17, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

VIETNAMESE HERE GO ONLINE TO LEARN AND TO CONTACT FAMILY/ GROUP HELPS WITH
LANGUAGE, WORK

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


Two years ago, My Chi, 32, came from Vietnam to the United States to marry a man
she had known for many years in their native land. He immigrated before she did.

These are happy times for Chi, but she misses her family.

Reaching them in Vietnam by e-mail is less expensive than a telephone call and
faster than regular mail. Sometimes her husband types and sends e-mails for her.
But she wants to write and send the notes herself. Then the notes could be more
personal.

Her English is minimal. How, in a new land with a new language, can she learn to
operate a computer?

She is learning. Every Sunday, she goes to a free computer class at the
Vietnamese Association of Missouri in the 3600 block of Fairview Avenue in St.
Louis. The class is in both Vietnamese and English. The software is programmed
in both languages. Chi is one of the star students.

"I am able to do it myself; that is the reason I feel better," Chi said.

Kim Tran, who organized and teaches the class, says that as Chi learns to use
the computer, she also learns English. Tran gives all directions first in one
language and then in the other.

Tran says the class helps people stay in touch with relatives and increase their
job opportunities.

"They will also be able to search the Internet and buy something," she said.

Tran immigrated to the United States in 1975 after the fall of Saigon. Her
Saigon Inn Cafe is known to many St. Louisans. She is planning to re-open the
restaurant on Rosedale Avenue in University City in a few weeks.

The St. Louis area has about 8,000 Vietnamese immigrants and an additional 2,000
people born to Vietnamese families in the area.

The Trans - Kim Tran and her husband, Kinh Tran - started the Vietnamese
Association of Missouri more than 20 years ago. The Vietnamese Association
offers food and clothing and a translation service. There are English classes
for immigrants and classes in Vietnamese so American-born children can retain
the culture of their forebears. The association also offers civics lessons to
those seeking citizenship.

Although most who come to the center are Vietnamese, people of all nationalities
who need aid are welcome.

The association started the classes with a grant of $4,500 from the
International Institute's Community Connections Program. The program is to help
refugee organizations. The group stretched the grant to pay for five computers,
software and teaching aids .

Kim Tran holds two 30-minute classes at the association every Sunday. The
classes began in February and will end in June. She has nine students.

This is an introductory course. Kim Tran said she had taught many of the
students how to type. She hopes to have a second, more advanced class, beginning
when this one ends. She said she needed a little more money to hire another
teacher. Then she could open the class to more people. She volunteers to teach.

None of the students, from teenagers to grandparents, daydreams in class. But
when things go wrong, they do tend to exclaim in two languages.

The classroom is unusual. Vietnamese icons cover the walls. The yellow-and-red
flag of South Vietnam flies on one side of a display that resembles a shrine.
The red, white and blue of the United States flies on the other side. In the
middle of the shrine are ceramic figures of three old Asian men. Kim Tran said
the statues represented honesty, health and education.

Each of the students in the computer class has a story and need.

Anh Vu Le, 15, of St. Louis, immigrated to St. Louis with her mother and sister
about 10 years ago. She is an All-American girl with long black hair. She wears
a white cap and a toe ring. She is fluent in English. For now, she wants to
create her own Web site. Someday, she hopes to be a computer designer.

The main attraction of the class: "It's free," Le said.

The added attraction: "People here are all Vietnamese friends. We help each
other a lot."

Lay Soutsakhone, 40, is from Laos. His father was an American soldier. About
1,100 Laotians, including their American-born children, live in the area.
Soutsakhone has a computer. His children use it to do their homework and play
games.

Soutsakhone said he wanted to learn all he could - and he wanted to keep up with
his children.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe/ E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com/ Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTOS BY DILIP VISHWANAT/ (1) Tai Ngo works in a computer
class at the Vietnamese Association of Missouri in St. Louis. Ngo uses his home
computer to e-mail friends and family in Vietnam. "It's cheaper than phone
calls," he says./ (2) (Ngo working at a computer.)

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              218 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 5, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Little Bosnia at Bevo

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 436 words


ST. LOUIS NEIGHBORHOODS

WITH THEIR SMOKEHOUSES AND COFFEE SHOPS, bars and bakeries, Bosnian immigrants
are adding old European flavor to St. Louis' South Side. Their numbers and
businesses have mushroomed rapidly in the past decade, changing the character
and vitality of the Bevo Mill neighborhood where most are settling. This
powerful wave of Bosnian immigration has helped build the city's population and
stabilize property values at a critical time. But as with any cultural shift,
there has been discord. Some established merchants grumble that their businesses
are being hurt by Bosnian merchants. Others complain that Bosnians refuse to
assimilate, won't speak English or won't patronize businesses that aren't
Bosnian-owned.

One can imagine the same kind of things being said about the wave of German
immigrants who gave Bevo Mill its ethnic flavor several generations ago. Such
generalities, misguided and unfair, probably are heard with the arrival of any
ethnic group whose members know little or no English and choose to test the
water slowly, sticking together at first because they feel more comfortable with
people who share their customs and speak the language of their native land.

But others are welcoming Bosnians with open arms because of the work ethic and
cultural values they bring. Members of the Gravois Business Association are
pleased that Bosnians are buying and rehabbing down-at-the-heels properties,
transforming empty buildings into thriving businesses and buying and upgrading
houses. These positive developments are adding population and an economic lift
to a working-class neighborhood that sorely needed both.

There's now a push to acknowledge the influence of the thousands of Bosnians
settling in the once predominantly German neighborhood. Nobody wants to do away
with the official name of Bevo Mill. What's being proposed is that a little
something Bosnian be added to the turquoise street banners hanging from
lampposts and bearing the word "BEVO" and the familiar windmill for which the
neighborhood is famous. That sounds like a great idea.

The transformation of Bevo reminds us that a city's character is defined not
only by its skyline but by people who live in diverse neighborhoods like the
Hill, the Ville and now by "Little Bosnia."

We should capitalize on this ethnicity so that Little Bosnia will become a
popular stop for locals and tourists alike, the way Greektown is in Detroit.
That kind of popularity may never happen. But in a city where the flight of
middle-class blacks and whites continues, the arrival of Bosnians is especially
welcome.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              219 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               June 5, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Little Bosnia at Bevo

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 436 words


ST. LOUIS NEIGHBORHOODS

WITH THEIR SMOKEHOUSES AND COFFEE SHOPS, bars and bakeries, Bosnian immigrants
are adding old European flavor to St. Louis' South Side. Their numbers and
businesses have mushroomed rapidly in the past decade, changing the character
and vitality of the Bevo Mill neighborhood where most are settling. This
powerful wave of Bosnian immigration has helped build the city's population and
stabilize property values at a critical time. But as with any cultural shift,
there has been discord. Some established merchants grumble that their businesses
are being hurt by Bosnian merchants. Others complain that Bosnians refuse to
assimilate, won't speak English or won't patronize businesses that aren't
Bosnian-owned.

One can imagine the same kind of things being said about the wave of German
immigrants who gave Bevo Mill its ethnic flavor several generations ago. Such
generalities, misguided and unfair, probably are heard with the arrival of any
ethnic group whose members know little or no English and choose to test the
water slowly, sticking together at first because they feel more comfortable with
people who share their customs and speak the language of their native land.

But others are welcoming Bosnians with open arms because of the work ethic and
cultural values they bring. Members of the Gravois Business Association are
pleased that Bosnians are buying and rehabbing down-at-the-heels properties,
transforming empty buildings into thriving businesses and buying and upgrading
houses. These positive developments are adding population and an economic lift
to a working-class neighborhood that sorely needed both.

There's now a push to acknowledge the influence of the thousands of Bosnians
settling in the once predominantly German neighborhood. Nobody wants to do away
with the official name of Bevo Mill. What's being proposed is that a little
something Bosnian be added to the turquoise street banners hanging from
lampposts and bearing the word "BEVO" and the familiar windmill for which the
neighborhood is famous. That sounds like a great idea.

The transformation of Bevo reminds us that a city's character is defined not
only by its skyline but by people who live in diverse neighborhoods like the
Hill, the Ville and now by "Little Bosnia."

We should capitalize on this ethnicity so that Little Bosnia will become a
popular stop for locals and tourists alike, the way Greektown is in Detroit.
That kind of popularity may never happen. But in a city where the flight of
middle-class blacks and whites continues, the arrival of Bosnians is especially
welcome.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 6, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Story of 6 epidemics examines mobile germs and their victims

BYLINE: KENNETH M. LUDMERER, M.D. Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: A&E

LENGTH: 554 words


"When Germs Travel: Six Major Epidemics That Have Invaded America Since 1900 and
the Fears They Have Unleashed" By Howard Markel

Published by Pantheon, 263 pages, $25

In this informative and important book, Howard Markel, a pediatrician and
historian of medicine at the University of Michigan, recounts the history of six
infectious outbreaks in the United States, each of which broke out in
association with waves of immigration to the country. He writes of epidemics of
trachoma, cholera, bubonic plague and typhus that occurred in association with
immigration a century ago, and of outbreaks of AIDS and tuberculosis that have
occurred in recent times. For each epidemic, he weaves a vivid description of
the natural history of the disease with an account of how the disease entered
the United States, spread and ultimately faded away.

Markel portrays these events through engrossing stories of individual victims
who suffered the disease -- the East European rabbi with trachoma, the Haitian
refugee with AIDS, the Chinese immigrant with bubonic plague. He describes the
response of public-health officials to the epidemics and shows how these
outbreaks shaped our society and changed our world. The continuity throughout
these episodes is America's habit of blaming the victim. We pride ourselves on
being a nation of immigrants, yet we have a tradition of scapegoating newcomers
when epidemics strike. Markel, who writes regularly for The New York Times and
other general publications, tells these stories in an enthralling fashion. His
ability to make medicine accessible and understandable to lay readers is
remarkable. Yet, the book is also thoroughly researched, well argued and replete
with insightful, nuanced interpretations. Scholars will find it of value as
well.

Perhaps the book's most notable feature is its illumination of public-health
issues of the present. As Markel shows, the great obstacle in establishing
effective public-health programs is apathy. Successful public-health programs
are silent in nature. Few diseases break out, and those that do are quickly
contained. Such successes easily lead to public overconfidence and the tendency
to stop investing further to keep our public-health programs strong. Yet, as
Markel writes: "We never really conquer germs. We merely wrestle them to a
draw." The recent worldwide outbreak of SARS is only the most recent reminder of
the truth of this observation.

What is needed in the 21st century, Markel argues, is a strong, cooperative,
international system of public health. In the book's epilogue, he espouses a
United Nations proposal for a globally funded public-health program in which
rich nations help pay for public-health initiatives in poor countries. One hopes
that Markel's message will be heeded. As he points out, today, as in the past,
germs travel. The only difference is that, in an era of globalization and rapid
international travel, an infected individual in one country can travel to
another and spread the illness before it becomes clinically apparent. The health
of a remote village in Rwanda or China now has serious implications for those of
us living in New York, Los Angeles -- or St. Louis. Appalling public-health
conditions in Third World countries can be ignored by wealthy nations only at
their own peril.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BOOKS Dr. Kenneth M. Ludmerer is professor of medicine and professor of
history at Washington University.

GRAPHIC: photo

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              221 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 6, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Story of 6 epidemics examines mobile germs and their victims

BYLINE: KENNETH M. LUDMERER, M.D. Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: A&E

LENGTH: 554 words


"When Germs Travel: Six Major Epidemics That Have Invaded America Since 1900 and
the Fears They Have Unleashed" By Howard Markel

Published by Pantheon, 263 pages, $25

In this informative and important book, Howard Markel, a pediatrician and
historian of medicine at the University of Michigan, recounts the history of six
infectious outbreaks in the United States, each of which broke out in
association with waves of immigration to the country. He writes of epidemics of
trachoma, cholera, bubonic plague and typhus that occurred in association with
immigration a century ago, and of outbreaks of AIDS and tuberculosis that have
occurred in recent times. For each epidemic, he weaves a vivid description of
the natural history of the disease with an account of how the disease entered
the United States, spread and ultimately faded away.

Markel portrays these events through engrossing stories of individual victims
who suffered the disease -- the East European rabbi with trachoma, the Haitian
refugee with AIDS, the Chinese immigrant with bubonic plague. He describes the
response of public-health officials to the epidemics and shows how these
outbreaks shaped our society and changed our world. The continuity throughout
these episodes is America's habit of blaming the victim. We pride ourselves on
being a nation of immigrants, yet we have a tradition of scapegoating newcomers
when epidemics strike. Markel, who writes regularly for The New York Times and
other general publications, tells these stories in an enthralling fashion. His
ability to make medicine accessible and understandable to lay readers is
remarkable. Yet, the book is also thoroughly researched, well argued and replete
with insightful, nuanced interpretations. Scholars will find it of value as
well.

Perhaps the book's most notable feature is its illumination of public-health
issues of the present. As Markel shows, the great obstacle in establishing
effective public-health programs is apathy. Successful public-health programs
are silent in nature. Few diseases break out, and those that do are quickly
contained. Such successes easily lead to public overconfidence and the tendency
to stop investing further to keep our public-health programs strong. Yet, as
Markel writes: "We never really conquer germs. We merely wrestle them to a
draw." The recent worldwide outbreak of SARS is only the most recent reminder of
the truth of this observation.

What is needed in the 21st century, Markel argues, is a strong, cooperative,
international system of public health. In the book's epilogue, he espouses a
United Nations proposal for a globally funded public-health program in which
rich nations help pay for public-health initiatives in poor countries. One hopes
that Markel's message will be heeded. As he points out, today, as in the past,
germs travel. The only difference is that, in an era of globalization and rapid
international travel, an infected individual in one country can travel to
another and spread the illness before it becomes clinically apparent. The health
of a remote village in Rwanda or China now has serious implications for those of
us living in New York, Los Angeles -- or St. Louis. Appalling public-health
conditions in Third World countries can be ignored by wealthy nations only at
their own peril.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BOOKS Dr. Kenneth M. Ludmerer is professor of medicine and professor of
history at Washington University.

GRAPHIC: photo

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              222 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 11, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

FLESHING OUT AREA HISTORY

BYLINE: MARTIN VAN DER WERF Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 412 words


* The St. Louis Genealogical Society plans to put an index of records of
19th-century immigrants online. The project should make it easier to trace
family trees.

For almost a century, more than 93,000 index cards that told the story of
generations of immigrants who entered America through St. Louis were scattered
about federal buildings and courthouses.

On Thursday, the St. Louis Genealogical Society announced that it had completed
a comprehensive index of the cards in what could be a major advance for those
trying to trace their family trees.

The all-volunteer society has been working with city and state officials to sort
through the cards. It now plans to take digital images of all of the cards and
put all of the information online by the end of the year.

In the early 19th century, St. Louis "became the veritable Ellis Island of the
Midwest," said Ken Winn, the state archivist. St. Louis, then the largest city
west of the Appalachians, was a jumping off point for almost all new settlers
heading west.

Immigrants who had lived in the United States for two years filled out forms
marking their intent to become residents. After another three years, they could
fill out petitions for naturalization.

Among those who were naturalized in St. Louis were Joseph Pulitzer, founder of
the Post-Dispatch, and Adolphus Busch and Eberhard Anheuser, who formed the
brewing company that still bears their names.

However, the history of how and when those people entered this country has been
difficult to research until now, with the organizing of the naturalization
cards. They cover 1816 to 1906.

The cards represent the histories of far more than 93,000 people. In most cases,
only the male head of a family had to fill out the cards. If their requests were
approved, their wives and children were automatically naturalized, too, Winn
said.

The genealogical society, which claims more than 2,500 members, has been working
since 1999 to sort out materials in the St. Louis Circuit Court records. The
organization also has recently entered 495,000 death records from the city and
is entering all cemetery records from the St. Louis area. That information will
be available online as it is completed.

The original naturalization record books are available now on microfilm at the
St. Louis Circuit Court Archives, the Missouri State Archives, the headquarters
of the St. Louis County Library and the genealogy room of the St. Louis Public
Library.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              223 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 18, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest

LENGTH: 628 words


TANZANIA

Ex-mayor gets 30 years for Rwanda genocide

A U.N. tribunal trying the alleged masterminds of Rwanda's 1994 genocide
convicted a former Rwandan mayor Thursday for his role in the slaughter,
sentencing him to 30 years in prison.

Sylvestre Gacumbitsi, 57, was convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal
for Rwanda. He was found guilty of genocide, extermination and rape for ordering
the killings of minority Tutsis in the southeastern commune of Rusumo, where he
was mayor.

More than 500,000 minority Tutsis and political moderates from Rwanda's Hutu
majority were killed in the genocide orchestrated by a regime of Hutu
extremists.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

American businessman is slain by gunmen

An American executive for a North Carolina-based energy company was killed
Thursday by two gunmen on a motorcycle as he drove home from work, officials
said.

Police detained three men for questioning but no charges were filed. The victim,
Craig Roger Hiserote, 55, was general manager of a Cogentrix Energy Inc. power
plant in San Pedro de Macoris, police said. Investigators believe Hiserote may
have been targeted, said police Gen. Simon Guerrero Castillo.

Hiserote had lived in the town for about three years. He had just left work and
was driving home through a middle-class residential neighborhood when two gunmen
on a motorcycle started shooting at him, police said.

GERMANY

Agreement is reached on immigration bill

The government and the conservative opposition agreed on an immigration bill
Thursday in a compromise that backers said balances terrorism fears, civil
rights and industry's interest in skilled workers.

The deal capped years of negotiations. It aims to make it easier for immigration
officials to deport "hate preachers" -- wording aimed at Islamic extremists
operating in Germany -- and kick out terrorism suspects without trial.

Those passages were added under pressure from the opposition Christian Democrats
after train bombings in Madrid, Spain, killed nearly 200 people in March. At the
same time, Chancellor Gerhard Schrder's demand for incentives to attract greater
numbers of highly trained workers was addressed by easing entry and residency
requirements for them.

PAKISTAN

Killing of opposition politician sparks riot

A leading opposition politician was slain in a drive-by shooting Thursday in
Karachi, triggering a riot by his supporters, police said.

Two gunmen in a car opened fire as Munawar Soharwardi passed by in another car.
Soharwardi was a local spokesman for the opposition Pakistan People's Party,
police said.

Soharwardi was the second official in former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's
party to be killed in just over three months. On March 6, two gunmen on a
motorcycle in Karachi ambushed lawmaker Abdullah Murad.

BELGIUM

Parolee is convicted of raping, killing girls

A sensational trial into a series of abductions, rapes and murders of young
girls that rocked Belgium's legal system ended Thursday with guilty verdicts
against a convicted pedophile who was out on parole at the start of the rampage.

The jury convicted Marc Dutroux, 47, an unemployed electrician, of abducting,
imprisoning and raping six girls in 1995 and 1996.

He also was found guilty of murdering two of the girls and an accomplice. They
were found buried on his property in Arlon. The house had a specially built
basement cell where the victims were imprisoned.

Dutroux was paroled after serving a prison sentence for raping young girls in
the 1980s.

He admitted abducting and sexually abusing two girls but denied killing anyone.

The 3 1/2-month trial outraged the country by disclosing inept police work after
his arrest -- prompting high-level law enforcement resignations and sweeping
reforms.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WORLD

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              224 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 27, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Cuba native now leads nation's immigrant services

BYLINE: KAREN BRANCH-BRIOSO Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2384 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


NEWS: Cuban native Eduardo Aguirre will address St. Louis' newest citizens at
the Old Courthouse on Friday.

ANALYSIS: Aguirre's life story mirrors that of millions who came to this country
with next to nothing, persevered through hardships and succeeded. He said his
remarks are likely to emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our
own weight."

When Eduardo Aguirre, the nation's immigration services chief, oversees the oath
of citizenship Friday for 77 St. Louis-area residents, he will do so from
experience as a naturalized citizen himself. But his earliest experiences here
were far from the American dream.

He was one of 14,000 children whose parents sent them, unaccompanied, to the
United States to flee Fidel Castro's regime in the early 1960s. Aguirre landed
in a Catholic-run orphanage near New Orleans where he witnessed sexual abuse by
his caretakers.

"I went to Hope Haven, which was an orphanage. It was a very, very bad place
that offered no hope and, worse, no haven," Aguirre said in an interview last
week in his office near Capitol Hill. "We were a group of 13 Cuban boys and so
we banded together and we protected ourselves, but we saw other children --
mainly American children -- being abused by brothers and priests."

Aguirre said he and others reported the abuse to a Catholic social worker. The
social worker's investigation confirmed that there had been abuse, Aguirre said.
He said he was moved from the orphanage, and so were the Salesian brothers, who
ran the institution.

A spokesman for the archdiocese of New Orleans confirmed that the Salesian
brothers order ran the orphanage at that time, but said they were no longer
there.

Yet Aguirre, at 15, refused to let the experience turn him against his new
country. Nor did academic failures frustrate him, as he struggled in high school
and flunked out -- twice -- from Louisiana State University because of poor
English skills. When LSU rejected his third attempt to enroll, he appealed to a
college dean, who overruled the decision.

"I had to go to college and graduate, there was never any option," said Aguirre,
who earned a degree in business administration, took an entry-level job at a
Houston bank and eventually rose to the level of president of international
private banking at Bank of America.

Aguirre met George H.W. Bush in 1977 when both worked at a Houston bank -- and
eventually became George and Barbara Bush's private banker. Aguirre met their
son, George W. Bush, when the Texas governor appointed him to the University of
Houston system Board of Regents.

At that time, in the mid-1990s, Aguirre traveled with University of Houston
athletes when they played at LSU's Tiger Stadium.

"I walked out of the visitors' locker room into Tiger Stadium, and, all of a
sudden, I just started crying," said Aguirre, who had lived in dormitories below
the stadium's stands as a student. "That was the cheapest place you could live
at LSU in those days. It came to me that I had traveled a lot in my life to get
to this point, started at a very rocky beginning. And look how well it had
turned out."

Aguirre, 57, exudes the same confidence now toward his new job, despite his
initial misgivings when President Bush asked him to take it early last year.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services was one of three former
divisions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that moved to the new
Homeland Security Department in March 2003. Members of Congress, fed up with
problems that plagued the old INS, passed a law to split up the agency's
enforcement and service duties.

In an agency whose very name seemed to favor the enforcement arms of
immigration, the services bureau's task is more about letting people in:
granting permanent residency, reuniting families and naturalizing immigrants.
But it was plagued by backlogs and post-9/11 fears that it was too welcoming of
some.

Aguirre, meanwhile, was a banker whose only experience with immigration services
was his personal one, and that of his brother and parents, who followed him to
the United States. At the time, he was serving as Bush's appointee to the
Export-Import Bank, well-tailored to his decades of banking experience.

"My main concern was that I would embarrass the president in failing to do this
job well," said Aguirre. He since changed his mind: "In retrospect, I'm perfect
for this job. I have customer service experience and we are in the service side
of the immigration. I have loan experience in risk management and certainly risk
management is part of this job -- we have to make sure that national security is
closely guarded. I have management and leadership skills that are important in
making a 15,000 (employee) team optimize their efforts. And, as an immigrant, I
have a sensitivity that perhaps others might not readily have."

Yet he still struggles with problems that have long plagued the agency,
particularly backlogs. Continued on next page

Applicants can wait years to be approved for their citizenship or permanent
residence applications. The bureau estimates 3.7 million such applications lag
behind the six-month processing time that Bush vowed as a goal in his 2000
campaign.

In mid-June, Aguirre unveiled a plan to fix that. He will send special backlog
teams in to immigration offices plagued with the largest numbers of significant
delays. He's improving technology. And increasing the number of applications
that can be filed online.

His target date to eliminate the backlog: the end of 2006.

Aguirre believes another major immigration vow of the president's will also have
to wait for a second Bush administration: the president's temporary-worker plan
that would legalize millions of undocumented workers. In an election year, it
has received a cool reception in Congress.

"I do expect that if the president is re-elected, he will continue to carry this
as one of his agenda ideas, and I do believe immigration reform for illegal
immigrants will come," Aguirre said. "If the president is not re-elected, the
question is, will a first-term president take immigration reform as a priority?
I can't imagine any first-term president, Republican or Democrat, taking
immigration as their first priority."

Yet, will Aguirre be part of that agenda if Bush is re-elected?

The man whose accent betrays far more of his Texas years than his Cuban roots
speaks wistfully of his home in Houston. He keeps a saddle in his office "just
to remind me where I came from and where I'm going to."

He'll only say: "Whatever the president wants me to do, that's what I'll do."

But for now, his task next week is clear. In special Independence Day week
ceremonies across the nation, his agency will oversee events where 16,000 people
will become U.S. citizens, and he will speak at several from El Paso, Texas, to
St. Louis to Boston. His own naturalization ceremony took place in 1970 at a
Houston courthouse, when Aguirre, almost 24, took the oath alongside his wife,
Maria Teresa. She, too, had come to the United States as an unaccompanied minor
from Cuba in what is known as Operation Pedro Pan.

He's still not quite sure what he'll say as he faces St. Louis' newest citizens
at the Old Courthouse at 1 p.m. Friday. But he says he'll likely use words that
emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our own weight."

When Aguirre's parents, Eduardo and Altagracia, joined their sons in New
Orleans, Catholic Charities asked them a favor. The agency asked the former
fabric-importer and homemaker to become full-time foster parents to other Cuban
children. They readily agreed. Then the Aguirres all moved into the house rented
by Catholic Charities -- and six children at a time moved in with them.

"My parents were doing this out of service," Aguirre said. "They did that for a
number of years: six kids at a time, they ran through 36 of them over the years.
In the end, because of the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban kids were not coming out
of Cuba anymore, and so they ended up taking in a lot of American kids. They
wanted to give something back."

Post-Dispatch Washington bureau reporter Karen Branch-Brioso covers immigration
issues.

===== Continued from previous page

"I had to go to college and graduate, there was never any option," said Aguirre,
who earned a degree in business administration, took an entry-level job at a
Houston bank and eventually rose to the level of president of international
private banking at Bank of America.

Aguirre met George H.W. Bush in 1977 when both worked at a Houston bank -- and
eventually became George and Barbara Bush's private banker. Aguirre met their
son, George W. Bush, when the Texas governor appointed him to the University of
Houston system Board of Regents.

At that time, in the mid-1990s, Aguirre traveled with University of Houston
athletes when they played at LSU's Tiger Stadium.

"I walked out of the visitors' locker room into Tiger Stadium, and, all of a
sudden, I just started crying," said Aguirre, who had lived in dormitories below
the stadium's stands as a student. "That was the cheapest place you could live
at LSU in those days. It came to me that I had traveled a lot in my life to get
to this point, started at a very rocky beginning. And look how well it had
turned out."

Aguirre, 57, exudes the same confidence now toward his new job, despite his
initial misgivings when President Bush asked him to take it early last year.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services was one of three former
divisions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that moved to the new
Homeland Security Department in March 2003. Members of Congress, fed up with
problems that plagued the old INS, passed a law to split up the agency's
enforcement and service duties.

In an agency whose very name seemed to favor the enforcement arms of
immigration, the services bureau's task is more about letting people in:
granting permanent residency, reuniting families and naturalizing immigrants.
But it was plagued by backlogs and post-9/11 fears that it was too welcoming of
some.

Aguirre, meanwhile, was a banker whose only experience with immigration services
was his personal one, and that of his brother and parents, who followed him to
the United States. At the time, he was serving as Bush's appointee to the
Export-Import Bank, well-tailored to his decades of banking experience.

"My main concern was that I would embarrass the president in failing to do this
job well," said Aguirre. He since changed his mind: "In retrospect, I'm perfect
for this job. I have customer service experience and we are in the service side
of the immigration. I have loan experience in risk management and certainly risk
management is part of this job -- we have to make sure that national security is
closely guarded. I have management and leadership skills that are important in
making a 15,000 (employee) team optimize their efforts. And, as an immigrant, I
have a sensitivity that perhaps others might not readily have."

Yet he still struggles with problems that have long plagued the agency,
particularly backlogs. Continued on next page Continued from previous page
Applicants can wait years to be approved for their citizenship or permanent
residence applications. The bureau estimates 3.7 million such applications lag
behind the six-month processing time that Bush vowed as a goal in his 2000
campaign.

In mid-June, Aguirre unveiled a plan to fix that. He will send special backlog
teams in to immigration offices plagued with the largest numbers of significant
delays. He's improving technology. And increasing the number of applications
that can be filed online.

His target date to eliminate the backlog: the end of 2006.

Aguirre believes another major immigration vow of the president's will also have
to wait for a second Bush administration: the president's temporary-worker plan
that would legalize millions of undocumented workers. In an election year, it
has received a cool reception in Congress.

"I do expect that if the president is re-elected, he will continue to carry this
as one of his agenda ideas, and I do believe immigration reform for illegal
immigrants will come," Aguirre said. "If the president is not re-elected, the
question is, will a first-term president take immigration reform as a priority?
I can't imagine any first-term president, Republican or Democrat, taking
immigration as their first priority."

Yet, will Aguirre be part of that agenda if Bush is re-elected?

The man whose accent betrays far more of his Texas years than his Cuban roots
speaks wistfully of his home in Houston. He keeps a saddle in his office "just
to remind me where I came from and where I'm going to."

He'll only say: "Whatever the president wants me to do, that's what I'll do."

But for now, his task next week is clear. In special Independence Day week
ceremonies across the nation, his agency will oversee events where 16,000 people
will become U.S. citizens, and he will speak at several from El Paso, Texas, to
St. Louis to Boston. His own naturalization ceremony took place in 1970 at a
Houston courthouse, when Aguirre, almost 24, took the oath alongside his wife,
Maria Teresa. She, too, had come to the United States as an unaccompanied minor
from Cuba in what is known as Operation Pedro Pan.

He's still not quite sure what he'll say as he faces St. Louis' newest citizens
at the Old Courthouse at 1 p.m. Friday. But he says he'll likely use words that
emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our own weight."

When Aguirre's parents, Eduardo and Altagracia, joined their sons in New
Orleans, Catholic Charities asked them a favor. The agency asked the former
fabric-importer and homemaker to become full-time foster parents to other Cuban
children. They readily agreed. Then the Aguirres all moved into the house rented
by Catholic Charities -- and six children at a time moved in with them.

"My parents were doing this out of service," Aguirre said. "They did that for a
number of years: six kids at a time, they ran through 36 of them over the years.
In the end, because of the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban kids were not coming out
of Cuba anymore, and so they ended up taking in a lot of American kids. They
wanted to give something back."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Post-Dispatch Washington bureau reporter Karen Branch-Brioso covers
immigration issues.

GRAPHIC: photo; Color PHOTO headshot - (Eduardo) Aguirre, Came here from Cuba in
1960s

TYPE: PROFILEEduardo Aguirre

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              225 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 27, 2004 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

Cuba native now leads nation's immigrant services

BYLINE: KAREN BRANCH-BRIOSO Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH

LENGTH: 2384 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


NEWS: Cuban native Eduardo Aguirre will address St. Louis' newest citizens at
the Old Courthouse on Friday.

ANALYSIS: Aguirre's life story mirrors that of millions who came to this country
with next to nothing, persevered through hardships and succeeded. He said his
remarks are likely to emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our
own weight."

When Eduardo Aguirre, the nation's immigration services chief, oversees the oath
of citizenship Friday for 77 St. Louis-area residents, he will do so from
experience as a naturalized citizen himself. But his earliest experiences here
were far from the American dream.

He was one of 14,000 children whose parents sent them, unaccompanied, to the
United States to flee Fidel Castro's regime in the early 1960s. Aguirre landed
in a Catholic-run orphanage near New Orleans where he witnessed sexual abuse by
his caretakers.

"I went to Hope Haven, which was an orphanage. It was a very, very bad place
that offered no hope and, worse, no haven," Aguirre said in an interview last
week in his office near Capitol Hill. "We were a group of 13 Cuban boys and so
we banded together and we protected ourselves, but we saw other children --
mainly American children -- being abused by brothers and priests."

Aguirre said he and others reported the abuse to a Catholic social worker. The
social worker's investigation confirmed that there had been abuse, Aguirre said.
He said he was moved from the orphanage, and so were the Salesian brothers, who
ran the institution.

A spokesman for the archdiocese of New Orleans confirmed that the Salesian
brothers order ran the orphanage at that time, but said they were no longer
there.

Yet Aguirre, at 15, refused to let the experience turn him against his new
country. Nor did academic failures frustrate him, as he struggled in high school
and flunked out -- twice -- from Louisiana State University because of poor
English skills. When LSU rejected his third attempt to enroll, he appealed to a
college dean, who overruled the decision.

"I had to go to college and graduate, there was never any option," said Aguirre,
who earned a degree in business administration, took an entry-level job at a
Houston bank and eventually rose to the level of president of international
private banking at Bank of America.

Aguirre met George H.W. Bush in 1977 when both worked at a Houston bank -- and
eventually became George and Barbara Bush's private banker. Aguirre met their
son, George W. Bush, when the Texas governor appointed him to the University of
Houston system Board of Regents.

At that time, in the mid-1990s, Aguirre traveled with University of Houston
athletes when they played at LSU's Tiger Stadium.

"I walked out of the visitors' locker room into Tiger Stadium, and, all of a
sudden, I just started crying," said Aguirre, who had lived in dormitories below
the stadium's stands as a student. "That was the cheapest place you could live
at LSU in those days. It came to me that I had traveled a lot in my life to get
to this point, started at a very rocky beginning. And look how well it had
turned out."

Aguirre, 57, exudes the same confidence now toward his new job, despite his
initial misgivings when President Bush asked him to take it early last year.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services was one of three former
divisions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that moved to the new
Homeland Security Department in March 2003. Members of Congress, fed up with
problems that plagued the old INS, passed a law to split up the agency's
enforcement and service duties.

In an agency whose very name seemed to favor the enforcement arms of
immigration, the services bureau's task is more about letting people in:
granting permanent residency, reuniting families and naturalizing immigrants.
But it was plagued by backlogs and post-9/11 fears that it was too welcoming of
some.

Aguirre, meanwhile, was a banker whose only experience with immigration services
was his personal one, and that of his brother and parents, who followed him to
the United States. At the time, he was serving as Bush's appointee to the
Export-Import Bank, well-tailored to his decades of banking experience.

"My main concern was that I would embarrass the president in failing to do this
job well," said Aguirre. He since changed his mind: "In retrospect, I'm perfect
for this job. I have customer service experience and we are in the service side
of the immigration. I have loan experience in risk management and certainly risk
management is part of this job -- we have to make sure that national security is
closely guarded. I have management and leadership skills that are important in
making a 15,000 (employee) team optimize their efforts. And, as an immigrant, I
have a sensitivity that perhaps others might not readily have."

Yet he still struggles with problems that have long plagued the agency,
particularly backlogs. Continued on next page

Applicants can wait years to be approved for their citizenship or permanent
residence applications. The bureau estimates 3.7 million such applications lag
behind the six-month processing time that Bush vowed as a goal in his 2000
campaign.

In mid-June, Aguirre unveiled a plan to fix that. He will send special backlog
teams in to immigration offices plagued with the largest numbers of significant
delays. He's improving technology. And increasing the number of applications
that can be filed online.

His target date to eliminate the backlog: the end of 2006.

Aguirre believes another major immigration vow of the president's will also have
to wait for a second Bush administration: the president's temporary-worker plan
that would legalize millions of undocumented workers. In an election year, it
has received a cool reception in Congress.

"I do expect that if the president is re-elected, he will continue to carry this
as one of his agenda ideas, and I do believe immigration reform for illegal
immigrants will come," Aguirre said. "If the president is not re-elected, the
question is, will a first-term president take immigration reform as a priority?
I can't imagine any first-term president, Republican or Democrat, taking
immigration as their first priority."

Yet, will Aguirre be part of that agenda if Bush is re-elected?

The man whose accent betrays far more of his Texas years than his Cuban roots
speaks wistfully of his home in Houston. He keeps a saddle in his office "just
to remind me where I came from and where I'm going to."

He'll only say: "Whatever the president wants me to do, that's what I'll do."

But for now, his task next week is clear. In special Independence Day week
ceremonies across the nation, his agency will oversee events where 16,000 people
will become U.S. citizens, and he will speak at several from El Paso, Texas, to
St. Louis to Boston. His own naturalization ceremony took place in 1970 at a
Houston courthouse, when Aguirre, almost 24, took the oath alongside his wife,
Maria Teresa. She, too, had come to the United States as an unaccompanied minor
from Cuba in what is known as Operation Pedro Pan.

He's still not quite sure what he'll say as he faces St. Louis' newest citizens
at the Old Courthouse at 1 p.m. Friday. But he says he'll likely use words that
emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our own weight."

When Aguirre's parents, Eduardo and Altagracia, joined their sons in New
Orleans, Catholic Charities asked them a favor. The agency asked the former
fabric-importer and homemaker to become full-time foster parents to other Cuban
children. They readily agreed. Then the Aguirres all moved into the house rented
by Catholic Charities -- and six children at a time moved in with them.

"My parents were doing this out of service," Aguirre said. "They did that for a
number of years: six kids at a time, they ran through 36 of them over the years.
In the end, because of the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban kids were not coming out
of Cuba anymore, and so they ended up taking in a lot of American kids. They
wanted to give something back."

Post-Dispatch Washington bureau reporter Karen Branch-Brioso covers immigration
issues.

===== Continued from previous page

"I had to go to college and graduate, there was never any option," said Aguirre,
who earned a degree in business administration, took an entry-level job at a
Houston bank and eventually rose to the level of president of international
private banking at Bank of America.

Aguirre met George H.W. Bush in 1977 when both worked at a Houston bank -- and
eventually became George and Barbara Bush's private banker. Aguirre met their
son, George W. Bush, when the Texas governor appointed him to the University of
Houston system Board of Regents.

At that time, in the mid-1990s, Aguirre traveled with University of Houston
athletes when they played at LSU's Tiger Stadium.

"I walked out of the visitors' locker room into Tiger Stadium, and, all of a
sudden, I just started crying," said Aguirre, who had lived in dormitories below
the stadium's stands as a student. "That was the cheapest place you could live
at LSU in those days. It came to me that I had traveled a lot in my life to get
to this point, started at a very rocky beginning. And look how well it had
turned out."

Aguirre, 57, exudes the same confidence now toward his new job, despite his
initial misgivings when President Bush asked him to take it early last year.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services was one of three former
divisions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that moved to the new
Homeland Security Department in March 2003. Members of Congress, fed up with
problems that plagued the old INS, passed a law to split up the agency's
enforcement and service duties.

In an agency whose very name seemed to favor the enforcement arms of
immigration, the services bureau's task is more about letting people in:
granting permanent residency, reuniting families and naturalizing immigrants.
But it was plagued by backlogs and post-9/11 fears that it was too welcoming of
some.

Aguirre, meanwhile, was a banker whose only experience with immigration services
was his personal one, and that of his brother and parents, who followed him to
the United States. At the time, he was serving as Bush's appointee to the
Export-Import Bank, well-tailored to his decades of banking experience.

"My main concern was that I would embarrass the president in failing to do this
job well," said Aguirre. He since changed his mind: "In retrospect, I'm perfect
for this job. I have customer service experience and we are in the service side
of the immigration. I have loan experience in risk management and certainly risk
management is part of this job -- we have to make sure that national security is
closely guarded. I have management and leadership skills that are important in
making a 15,000 (employee) team optimize their efforts. And, as an immigrant, I
have a sensitivity that perhaps others might not readily have."

Yet he still struggles with problems that have long plagued the agency,
particularly backlogs. Continued on next page Continued from previous page
Applicants can wait years to be approved for their citizenship or permanent
residence applications. The bureau estimates 3.7 million such applications lag
behind the six-month processing time that Bush vowed as a goal in his 2000
campaign.

In mid-June, Aguirre unveiled a plan to fix that. He will send special backlog
teams in to immigration offices plagued with the largest numbers of significant
delays. He's improving technology. And increasing the number of applications
that can be filed online.

His target date to eliminate the backlog: the end of 2006.

Aguirre believes another major immigration vow of the president's will also have
to wait for a second Bush administration: the president's temporary-worker plan
that would legalize millions of undocumented workers. In an election year, it
has received a cool reception in Congress.

"I do expect that if the president is re-elected, he will continue to carry this
as one of his agenda ideas, and I do believe immigration reform for illegal
immigrants will come," Aguirre said. "If the president is not re-elected, the
question is, will a first-term president take immigration reform as a priority?
I can't imagine any first-term president, Republican or Democrat, taking
immigration as their first priority."

Yet, will Aguirre be part of that agenda if Bush is re-elected?

The man whose accent betrays far more of his Texas years than his Cuban roots
speaks wistfully of his home in Houston. He keeps a saddle in his office "just
to remind me where I came from and where I'm going to."

He'll only say: "Whatever the president wants me to do, that's what I'll do."

But for now, his task next week is clear. In special Independence Day week
ceremonies across the nation, his agency will oversee events where 16,000 people
will become U.S. citizens, and he will speak at several from El Paso, Texas, to
St. Louis to Boston. His own naturalization ceremony took place in 1970 at a
Houston courthouse, when Aguirre, almost 24, took the oath alongside his wife,
Maria Teresa. She, too, had come to the United States as an unaccompanied minor
from Cuba in what is known as Operation Pedro Pan.

He's still not quite sure what he'll say as he faces St. Louis' newest citizens
at the Old Courthouse at 1 p.m. Friday. But he says he'll likely use words that
emphasize the "responsibility of a new citizen to pull our own weight."

When Aguirre's parents, Eduardo and Altagracia, joined their sons in New
Orleans, Catholic Charities asked them a favor. The agency asked the former
fabric-importer and homemaker to become full-time foster parents to other Cuban
children. They readily agreed. Then the Aguirres all moved into the house rented
by Catholic Charities -- and six children at a time moved in with them.

"My parents were doing this out of service," Aguirre said. "They did that for a
number of years: six kids at a time, they ran through 36 of them over the years.
In the end, because of the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban kids were not coming out
of Cuba anymore, and so they ended up taking in a lot of American kids. They
wanted to give something back."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PROFILE Eduard Aguirre Post-Dispatch Washington bureau reporter Karen
Branch-Brioso covers immigration issues.

GRAPHIC: photo; Color PHOTO headshot - (Eduardo) Aguirre Came here from Cuba in
1960s

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              226 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              June 30, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Kerry promises to ease citizenship for immigrants

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Seeking support from black and Hispanic voters, presumptive Democratic
presidential candidate John Kerry pledged Tuesday to ease citizenship for
working immigrants and improve educational opportunities for minority and
low-income students.

Kerry told the National Council of La Raza that within 100 days of being
elected, he would send legislation to Congress to change the immigration system.
He criticized President George W. Bush for failing to get behind a bill, dubbed
AgJobs, that proposes to legalize some farm laborers and make it easier for
agriculture employers to hire them.

"It's part of Cesar Chavez's vision of justice, vision of offering a piece of
the American dream to the good people who labor day after day in the hot sun so
Americans can enjoy apples and grapes that are fresh every day," Kerry said,
speaking of the late labor and civil rights leader. "This president hasn't said
if he will sign that bill. I will, in a heartbeat."

Kerry said he would help reunite immigrant families and strengthen border
security.

"Millions live in the shadows of our country, frightened and often abused,"
Kerry said. "It is time to fulfill the promise of America, so that those who
work hard and take responsibility can build a better life for themselves and
their families."

Earlier in Chicago, Kerry told the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition that he would see that
1 million more students graduate from college during his first five years in
office, with a particular emphasis on helping minorities.

"My friends, we can't rest until all Americans, and I mean all Americans, white
and black, rich and poor, people of all colors and all backgrounds, truly have
the opportunity they need to make the American dream real," Kerry told a
convention of the civil rights group.

Besides signing the AgJobs bill, Kerry said he would also support the DREAM Act,
which would allow children of undocumented immigrant parents to qualify as state
residents for in-state college tuition.

Bush campaign spokesman Steve Schmidt said Bush has not taken a position on
either bill. He said Kerry doesn't have standing to complain about them not
becoming law when he has missed more than 80 percent of Senate votes this year.

=== Get the latest political news at TLtoday.com/election2004.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Sen. Dick Durbin (left), D-Ill.,
shares a laugh with Democratic presidential candidate and Massachusetts Sen.
John Kerry after Kerry spoke to the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition Tuesday in Chicago.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              227 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 3, 2004 Saturday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Immigrants get a taste of the Fourth of July at annual barbecue

BYLINE: JOEL CURRIER Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 409 words


As the rest of the country celebrates 228 years of national independence this
weekend, Ali Karimpour marks a personal milestone.

Today, the 29-year-old Kurdish refugee celebrates settling in the United States
exactly one year ago, after escaping an oppressive Iranian regime that might
have killed him.

"We are happy to be here," said Karimpour, a gas station attendant who lives in
St. Louis. "The Fourth of July is a time when all people come together."

On Friday, he joined about 300 other refugees and immigrants for a barbecue
outside the International Institute of St. Louis. The organization, which helps
immigrants and refugees adjust to life in the United States, has hosted the
annual barbecue for about 15 years.

For most of the new arrivals from conflict-ridden countries, including Liberia,
Colombia, Iran and Afghanistan, the barbecue Friday was a first taste of a
typical American Independence Day menu.

That's true for Olga Romero and her husband, Jose Nieto, who came to St. Louis
last fall from Bogota, Colombia. Nieto sought relief after the Colombian
government threatened to take away his two children.

"The institute has helped me and my family," Nieto said. "We get protection
living here."

The barbecue Friday hummed with a medley of foreign languages as the hundreds of
new arrivals loaded paper plates with hamburgers, veggie burgers, potato chips,
bananas and apples. Most of those in the buffet line clutched small plastic
American flags donated to the institute shortly after the terrorist attacks on
9/11.

This year has brought several new experiences for Ramona Eusebio-Cuevas, 32. She
had never seen snow until she emigrated from the Dominican Republic last winter.
She married a St. Louisan soon after arriving and is taking English classes at
the institute, with the hope of using her journalism background to start her own
Latin American-interest magazine. Eusebio-Cuevas said she is excited to watch
her first July Fourth fireworks display downtown this weekend.

Faiz Ibrahim, 16, a Kurdish refugee from Iraq, said he doesn't remember how he
came to the United States seven years ago. While he enjoys the American culture
surrounding July Fourth, he said life in the United States has sometimes been
difficult, knowing the majority of his family remains in his war-ravaged
homeland.

"Over here, there's a little happiness," he said. "Over there, it's all sadness.
There's too many people dying."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: LOCAL

TYPE: REACTION

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              228 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 27, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Imam leaves jail to return to Senegal

BYLINE: AISHA SULTAN Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 405 words


Moustapha Seck's visit to the United States ended in a stint in custody after
his arrest at Lambert Field.

A West African imam who was detained in an immigration jail for six weeks left
St. Louis on Monday to head back to Senegal, federal officials said. Moustapha
Seck, a prominent religious figure in his native country, was stopped June 10 at
Lambert Field when he tried to board a flight to Rhode Island.

Seck speaks limited English and asserted later that the translator used by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement encouraged him to admit to a visa violation
that he says he didn't commit. He also alleged that federal agents had
mistreated him and pressured him into saying he had raised money at mosques -- a
charge to which he pleaded guilty in court.

He denied the fund raising but says challenging the charge would have kept him
in jail for several more months. He needed to return to Senegal to tend to his
crops, he said.

Marilu Cabrera, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
Monday that she was trying to track down the translator used by the St. Louis
special agents. Last week, Cabrera said she had no knowledge of any allegations
concerning mistreatment.

A judge granted Seck's request to voluntarily leave the country several weeks
ago, but his return had been delayed due to travel arrangements, Cabrera said.
"He was granted voluntary departure by the judge, so that was the plan for him
all along, to go back home," she said.

Seck's supporters say the government was dragging its feet and took immediate
action only after a story about Seck's treatment appeared Sunday in the
Post-Dispatch.

"I think the release of the article has been a catalyst in his release," said
Moustapha Senghor, who has known the imam for more than 35 years. Senghor speaks
Wolof, one of the native languages of Senegal, and was an interpreter for a
series of interviews conducted by the Post-Dispatch while Seck was in jail.
Senghor, who lives in New York City, said Senegalese people in America and in
Africa are pleased that Seck is on his way home. He described Seck as a humble
and unassuming man.

A federal report stated that Seck's pattern of travel and some copies of
passports and photos he had been carrying raised suspicions about him. Jim
Hacking, an attorney and the executive director of the Council on American
Islamic Relations in St. Louis, helped secure Seck's release.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILEMOUSTAPHA SECK

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 5, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

The new world

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 326 words


IMMIGRATION

ANYONE BEMOANING America's place in the world or despondent that poverty's
crushing heel has denied him a high-definition wide-screen plasma TV, should
review Post-Dispatch reporter Eun-Kyung Kim's account Tuesday of Aden Kabir's
first days in the United States. Mr. Kabir is a Somali refugee who was resettled
in St. Louis last month along with his wife and four children. Ms. Kim
accompanied him and a caseworker from the International Institute as he made his
first trip to an American supermarket, a Shop 'N Save on Gravois Avenue.

"I have to speak the truth," he told her later. "I have never seen anything as
good as that."

Twenty-four hours earlier, Mr. Kabir had left a refugee camp in Kenya where he
had lived for 11 years. As a Bantu tribesman from eastern Africa whose ancestors
had been kidnapped into Somali slavery in the 19th century, Mr. Kabir had been
an outcast in his own land.

He lost his farm and a son to the gruesome Somali civil war of the late 1980s
and early 1990s and fled hundreds of miles across the border to Kenya.

The refugee camp there was small improvement, a place where rape and other forms
of violence were common, a place where such food as there was was cooked over
open fires.

With the intervention of the U.S. government and the help of the International
Institute, the Kabir family was flown around the world and was plunked down in a
South St. Louis apartment, a place with a microwave oven and a refrigerator they
could stock with the unimaginable bounty of Shop 'N Save.

For the first time in their lives, the Kabir family had walls around them. They
had electricity and hot and cold running water, and the water was clean. They
had toilets instead of pit trenches, mattresses with sheets and blankets instead
of beds of husks and twigs.

It must have seemed like a miracle, and indeed it is. Sometimes it helps to be
reminded of the miracle that is the United States of America.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: editorial

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              230 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 15, 2004 Sunday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Immigration is topic at travel club meeting

SECTION: TRAVEL & LEISURE; Pg. T05

LENGTH: 90 words


Beth Radtke, vice president of the International Institute, will be the featured
speaker at a meeting of the International Travel Club, 2 to 4 p.m. next Saturday
at the St. Louis County Library, 1640 South Lindbergh Boulevard.

Radtke will discuss the impact of more than 8,000 immigrants and newcomers
settling in St. Louis this year. Also, travel agent Norma Johnson will lead a
discussion on riverboat cruising in Europe.

Members of the club and nonmembers are welcome. For more information, call Hal
Grady at 314-275-8445.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              231 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 24, 2004 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS LEARN TO TRAVEL A NEW ROAD

BYLINE: SHANE GRABER Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 625 words


* Driving can help immigrants feel at home in their new community. And the
International Institute is helping many of them get them behind the wheel.

Elizabeth Swen wiggled in the parking lot, waiting for her shot behind the wheel
of a four-door economy car she knew nothing about. "If I drive in this city, I
will not wreck," she promised, as she hopped in place.

Finally, her turn came. Swen, 42, a refugee from Liberia, dropped her papers and
tote bag and ran to the car. She jumped in, put both hands on the steering wheel
and turned it side to side -- even though the car was not running.

"OK, let's try the headlights," Paul Barker, a 17-year-old volunteer, said
recently at the International Institute.

Swen just smiled to her friends beside the car. She gave them a thumbs up.

"Headlights?" Barker said. "Do you know where the headlights are?"

Swen smiled and fumbled with knobs and buttons in the car. The left blinker
blinked. The right one blinked. Finally, she hit the headlights, then applauded
her own feat.

Swen still would have a lot to learn about getting a drivers license. But at
least she is learning for free.

Two or three times a year, the International Institute, which helps refugees and
immigrants adjust to American life, offers this driving course. The class
doesn't teach actual driving, but instructs students on taking a driving test,
learning controls and parts of a car and how to get a permit and car insurance.

"Many newcomers have never driven a car before coming to America," said Beth
Radtke, the institute's vice president of development and communications.
"Others may have driven in their native land, but may not be familiar with
American road signs and Missouri driving regulations. Car insurance may or may
not have been required in some countries."

Luckily, getting a license here is easier than in most other countries, she
said.

"Oftentimes a course, which can include serious book learning and more than 100
hours of supervised driving experience, is required, to say nothing of the
exorbitant cost," she said. "You can well imagine that many newcomers are amused
to learn how comparatively simple and cheap our process is."

The students meet at the International Institute, on Grand Boulevard just south
of Gravois Avenue, every Saturday for three weeks. About 400 refugees immigrate
to St. Louis a year, said Radtke, who can say "hello" and "goodbye" in about 15
languages.

The institute has offered the driving program since the mid-1990s, and about 700
students have gone through the course.

Cyrus Barley, 35, a Liberian, recently arrived in St. Louis after eight months
in Louisiana. He has never driven a car.

"But this class is good, and I learn a lot," he said after getting acquainted
with the functions on Barker's car. "I just pray to God I drive soon."

The parking lot was filled with two dozen refugees from Afghanistan, Nigeria,
Somalia, China and Syria. There were newcomers from Colombia, India, Iran,
Morocco and Mexico, among others.

After the hands-on car introduction, students headed back to the classroom.

"It's kind of a calm, cool, U.N. kind of place," Radtke said, acknowledging the
native clothing worn by many of the students.

Sarah Barnard, the class instructor, then used three toy cars to demonstrate
parallel parking. She asked a volunteer to demonstrate. Barley raised his hand
first. He walked to the front of the class.

"OK, which is my car?" he asked.

Students giggled.

It was rough going, but Barley finally parked his toy car. The students clapped,
and Radtke joined them.

"They really need to participate in the community, and driving is one of the
best ways to do that," she later said. "This is key to their being independent."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Color Photo by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - At a class for
immigrants held recently at the International Institute on South Grand
Boulevard, volunteer Paul Barker (left) helps Chinese immigrant Cong Ge learn
what it takes to get a drivers license here. Since the program began in the
mid-1990s, about 700 students have taken the course.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              232 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 24, 2004 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Edition

Immigrants learn to travel a new road

BYLINE: SHANE GRABER Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 635 words


* Many are taking advantage of a course that helps put them behind the wheel.

Elizabeth Swen wiggled in the parking lot, waiting for her shot behind the wheel
of a four-door economy car she knew nothing about. "If I drive in this city, I
will not wreck," she promised, as she hopped in place.

Finally, her turn came. Swen, 42, a refugee from Liberia, dropped her papers and
tote bag and ran to the car. She jumped in, put both hands on the steering wheel
and turned it side to side -- even though the car was not running.

"OK, let's try the headlights," Paul Barker, a 17-year-old volunteer, said
recently at the International Institute.

Swen just smiled to her friends beside the car. She gave them a thumbs up.

"Headlights?" Barker said. "Do you know where the headlights are?"

Swen smiled and fumbled with knobs and buttons in the car. The left blinker
blinked. The right one blinked. Finally, she hit the headlights, then applauded
her own feat.

Swen still would have a lot to learn about getting a drivers license. But at
least she is learning for free.

Two or three times a year, the International Institute, which helps refugees and
immigrants adjust to American life, offers this driving course. The class
doesn't teach actual driving, but instructs students on taking a driving test,
learning controls and parts of a car and how to get a permit and car insurance.

"Many newcomers have never driven a car before coming to America," said Beth
Radtke, the institute's vice president of development and communications.
"Others may have driven in their native land, but may not be familiar with
American road signs and Missouri driving regulations. Car insurance may or may
not have been required in some countries."

Luckily, getting a license here is easier than in most other countries, she
said.

"Oftentimes a course, which can include serious book learning and more than 100
hours of supervised driving experience, is required, to say nothing of the
exorbitant cost," she said. "You can well imagine that many newcomers are amused
to learn how comparatively simple and cheap our process is."

The students meet at the International Institute, just south of Grand Boulevard
and Gravois Avenue, every Saturday for three weeks. The class, like all the
programs at the institute, is funded by state and federal grants and contracts,
as well as by donations.

About 400 refugees immigrate to St. Louis a year, said Radtke, who can say
"hello" and "goodbye" in about 15 languages.

The institute has offered the driving program since the mid-1990s, and about 700
students have gone through the course.

Cyrus Barley, 35, a Liberian, recently arrived in St. Louis after eight months
in Louisiana. He has never driven a car.

"But this class is good, and I learn a lot," he said after getting acquainted
with the functions on Barker's car. "I just pray to God I drive soon."

The parking lot was filled with two dozen refugees from Afghanistan, Nigeria,
Somalia, China and Syria. There were newcomers from Colombia, India, Iran,
Morocco and Mexico, among others.

After the hands-on car introduction, students headed back to the classroom.

"It's kind of a calm, cool, U.N. kind of place," Radtke said, acknowledging the
native clothing worn by many of the students.

Sarah Barnard, the class instructor, then used three toy cars to demonstrate
parallel parking. She asked a volunteer to demonstrate. Barley raised his hand
first. He walked to the front of the class.

"OK, which is my car?" he asked.

Students giggled.

It was rough going, but Barley finally parked his toy car. The students clapped,
and Radtke joined them.

"They really need to participate in the community, and driving is one of the
best ways to do that," she later said. "This is key to their being independent."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Color Photo by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - At a class for
immigrants held recently at the International Institute on South Grand
Boulevard, volunteer Paul Barker (left) helps Chinese immigrant Cong Ge learn
what it takes to get a drivers license here. Since the program began in the
mid-1990s, about 700 students have taken the course.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              233 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 30, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Teaching immigrants about this strange U.S.

BYLINE: PATRICIA RICE Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words


Yassah Harry beamed with pride as her teacher leaned over and saw that she had
written her first name 12 times.

At 53, she wrote her name for the first time. Ever.

It was like a little miracle for Harry, a refugee from Liberia in western
Africa. She fled her war-torn country and arrived in St. Louis this summer with
a son and three grandchildren.

Seated in the pre-literate class at the International Institute of Greater St.
Louis on South Grand Boulevard near Gravois Avenue, she awkwardly grasped a
black pencil and traced the letters over the red ink lettering of her first
name.

On the fifth attempt, Harry took a leap. She wrote the six letters freehand,
without tracing. Each time afterward, her letters were clearer and firmer.
Eventually, her right thumb and her forefinger found a comfortable position to
hold the pencil.

In Liberia, only 42 percent of women older than 15 can read and write, and only
73 percent of the men over that age can do so, according to the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency's Web site.

"We come from a country area; our families were poor," said Martha Dour, a
classmate seated near Harry in the pre-literate class. They lived near each
other in the town of Tappite, Liberia, where their mothers were friends. Now the
women live near each other in St. Louis.

Since early November, more than 90 Liberian refugees have entered the United
States under the sponsorship of the institute. Most settled within walking
distance of Grand and Gravois.

The two women were among the 30 students who showed up on a recent day for the
pre-literate class. Most were Liberians, but others were Bantu Somalis,
Ethiopians, Eritreans and Vietnamese.

The class meets at 9 a.m. for three hours a day Monday through Thursday
year-round. More typically, there are about 15 to 20 students, says the teacher,
Marlene Kruse, who devised the course after teaching English to literate
refugees. Volunteers are needed to give each student individual attention.

In the 1980s, Kruse, a former St. Louis high school teacher, loved to travel and
experience different cultures. For two years, she volunteered at the institute's
English language classes. Sixteen years ago, she was hired full time, and she
eventually developed the class for newcomers who have had less than two years of
classroom experience in any language.

The majority of refugees in St. Louis go directly to English reading and writing
classes. But others need a head start. Four men were in the class.

"Some in this class have never even held a pencil before," Kruse said.

Harry, Dour and their classmates were seated around eight round tables set in
two rows in a windowless corner classroom that Kruse has colorfully decorated
with printed and handmade posters.

But no grade school reading room ever looked like this.

One sign said, "Do Not Use Cell Phones." Another showed which coins to insert in
a parking meter. A more typical poster showed the faces and names of all the
U.S. presidents, because many in the class are determined to pass the
citizenship tests.

The class subject matter is for adults. Kruse tells the students not to leave
their houses or car doors unlocked, never to leave their young children alone,
and she teaches them how to talk to clinic doctors about pain and body parts.

There is no first day of school. The class is needed immediately by newcomers,
and it runs all year. Students may start any day. In late summer, when refugee
parents and grandparents register their children in school, more show up for the
class, so the current need for volunteer classroom aids is great.

On this occasion, many arrived more than 30 minutes late. A few elderly class
members grow weary after two hours and leave early.

"I think you have to be nonjudgmental in this job," said Kruse.

Encouraging students to arrive on time is a balancing act because she does not
want to shame them so they won't come at all. "We want to encourage them to
come, not to be isolated," she said.

When one woman arrived late, she went from table to table and kissed friends
from at least three nations. Kruse had patience enough to allow about 30 seconds
for the hugfest before taking back the class's attention.

She is understanding because many of the students lived in refugee camps for
years and have not had to be anywhere on time. Others come from rural areas with
scant need to tell time, so just getting them to the classroom is part of their
cultural education.

At each class, a simple but adult story is told about American life to teach
words, grammar, punctuation, numbers and how to get along in shops, clinics and
with government officials.

On this day, she read them a story about a fictional Susanna and her 16th
birthday party at her home. Stories are told one day and reviewed the following
several days. The next day, Kruse brought a birthday cake to share.

Much of the first two hours focused on understanding the personal pronouns "she"
and "they." Kruse also tried to help them distinguish the concepts of home and
house.

As she read the story, she wrote its words on the green board. The class read it
word by word on printed sheets in front of them. Words were repeated again and
again, and they even sang "Happy Birthday."

The simple story was a lesson in Western culture, too. In many of the students'
home countries, birthdays are not celebrated. Many refugees arrive at the
institute with visa papers that give Jan. 1 as their birthday, as if anything
more specific is considered frivolous in the lands of their birth.

"This is a huge class today," said Kruse. "I like to help each one of them with
their writing."

Dour is the star of the class. Though she had never been a student in a
classroom until mid-August, her children taught her the basics of reading and
writing.

Her standard American English is good; it's one of the 20 languages used in her
home country. By month's end, Kruse will promote Dour to a beginning English
reading and writing class.

Beth Radtke, former elementary school teacher, saw Harry struggling to copy the
number 16, the age of the story's birthday girl.

Harry wrote the numeral 6 on its back, as if it were a baby. Rather than correct
her, Radtke flipped over Harry's notebook, read her name on its cover and then
in block letters wrote the name "Yassah." She quickly showed Harry how to trace.

Two days later, Radtke still was excited about the little miracle that resulted
from her easy effort.

"Even when I taught school, I never taught anyone to write their name," she
said. "Children's parents had already done that. It was one of the 10 most
incredible experiences I've ever had."

======== How you can help The International Institute needs volunteers to help
with its class for pre-literate immigrants. The class runs from 9 a.m. to noon
Mondays through Thursdays year-round. To obtain more information or to volunteer
call 314-775-9000.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; (1) Color KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Habibo Muhamud (left)
and Shamsu Mada are Somali women taking an English literacy course taught by
Marlene Kruse at the International Institute on South Grand Boulevard. (2) Photo
by KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Marlene Kruse holds a birthday cake, complete
with candles, as she instructs a group of Somalians about the American customs
concerning birthdays during a literacy course. The two women flanking her
preferred to remain unidentified.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              234 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            September 1, 2004 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Retirement center is home to many cultures

BYLINE: EUN-KYUNG KIM Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 958 words


* Crown Center in University City became popular among elderly immigrants mostly
by word of mouth.

Yu Lui Shih had no desire to follow her daughter to Seattle several years ago.
It's a beautiful city, she thought, but Shih found the independence that her
then-new home provided more appealing. She also liked the computer classes, easy
transportation to shopping and church, and, perhaps most importantly, a built-in
community of Chinese immigrants like herself.

Shih, 81, is part of a large group of international residents at the Gladys and
Henry Crown Center for Senior Living. Chinese and Russian immigrants and
refugees make up the largest portion of the global presence, each claiming about
30 of the center's 250 households. Other nationalities also are represented,
including Poles, Indians and a small bloc of Bosnians.

Shih moved to Crown Center in University City about eight years ago, after
taking turns living among several of her children, scattered throughout the
country. When her daughter moved away five years ago, she decided against moving
with her, even though it meant living in a city without any relatives.

Shih says the center, an independent living facility that provides programs and
services but no personal supervision for residents, provides her with a freedom
that she could not find living with her children in suburbia.

Many elderly immigrants, especially those who do not drive or speak English,
find it isolating to be stuck in a house alone all day while their children work
long hours.

"At home, only daughter and son. If they are not home, oh, oh. You can't do
anything," Shih said. "If I don't drive, I can't go out. Can only watch
television, read the newspaper. Here, we learn the computer, help each other out
when we're sick. Here we feel very comfortable. At home, you are very lonely."

Nikki Goldstein, Crown Center's executive director, said the facility became a
magnet for international residents by word of mouth. The center has long been
identified with the Jewish community, the major sponsors of Russian refugees who
arrived in the area nearly two decades ago. But it had only several Chinese
residents until 1995, when the center opened a new wing that allocated most of
its units for low-income residents eligible for government rent subsidies.

That opened the door to a flood of Chinese immigrants who had heard about the
center from their church friends and had waited years for a spot to open.

Today, the center's hallways are covered with pictures reflecting the different
ethnicity of the residents, including many of the African-American tenants. Just
as many of the fliers stapled on the bulletin boards are in Russian as in
English or Chinese.

The only other center with a similar international presence is Parkview Towers,
also located in University City. The facility has a number of Chinese, Russian
and Bosnian residents, according to its on-site manager. The facility's
management company refused to discuss any specifics.

Goldstein said language has been an ongoing challenge at Crown Center. The
facility has two part-time social workers -- one who speaks Chinese, the other
Russian -- who translate materials and answer tenants' questions. To help
residents deal with common household problems, the center keeps large binders
filled with pages of drawings depicting such things as leaky faucets, jammed
keyholes and overflowing toilets. Each drawing has a simple description beneath
it translated into various languages.

A second family At a recent gathering of several Russian residents, Rema
Korschunov said she and her neighbors were the subject of jealousy among their
friends who envy the friendliness of the facility's staff and the center's
programs and services, such as transportation to supermarkets, drug stores and
ethnic grocery shops.

She said her neighbors had become a second family, often looking in or cooking
meals for each other when they get sick.

Lina Melamed said she appreciated the mixture of cultures.

"People have conversations in their own country language, and when we meet
(others) in the hall or outside, only conversations in English. It's very good
practice for all of us -- Russians, Chinese, Bosnians, Americans," she said.

Arlene Citerman, the program director at Crown, said other agencies that work
with the elderly are becoming more aware of the changing client base and have
been adapting by adding bilingual employees.

Irina Bursak is the administrator for AW Health Care, a home care agency with
workers who speak Farsi, Vietnamese, Russian and several other languages. She
said cultural deference was becoming increasingly important to her clients.

"Often, they won't accept somebody if it's not from the same culture," she said.

Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute, which helps resettle
refugees and immigrants, says she can't imagine the St. Louis area soon
requiring centers that specifically cater to elderly immigrants. The region
simply lacks the population for it, unlike places such as Seattle or New York
City.

"There's also such a diversity among ethnic populations that putting them all
together in one center is just like putting them in with a bunch of Americans,"
she said. "So yes, it would be very beneficial in some ways, but there would be
all kinds of barriers, the biggest one being . . . that with most of the
population, we do not have the density of similar languages to operate such a
place."

Citerman said even though staff members joke about the three New Year
celebrations the Crown facility commemorates -- Chinese New Year, Rosh Hashanah
(the Jewish New Year) and the calendar New Year -- the center is "so much closer
to what the world is becoming."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; (1) Color PHOTO by DAVID CARSON / POST-DISPATCH - Yu Lui Shih
performs tai chi exercises Tuesday with other Chinese residents of the Gladys
and Henry Crown Center for Senior Living in University City. A group gathers
every morning for tai chi in the courtyard. The center is home to immigrants and
refugees from China Russia, Poland, India and Bosnia. (2) Photo by DAVID CARSON
/ POST-DISPATCH - Chinese residents perform tai chi Tuesday in the courtyard of
the Gladys and Henry Crown Center for Senior Living in University City. A group
gathers each morning for tai chi. Note: photo 2 appeared in the ILLINOIS FIVE
STAR LIFT Edition, page B02.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 2, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

Teaching immigrants about this strange U.S.

BYLINE: PATRICIA RICE Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NORTH POST; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 1152 words


Yassah Harry beamed with pride as her teacher leaned over and saw that she had
written her first name 12 times.

At 53, she wrote her name for the first time. Ever.

It was like a little miracle for Harry, a refugee from Liberia in western
Africa. She fled her war-torn country and arrived in St. Louis this summer with
a son and three grandchildren.

Seated in the pre-literate class at the International Institute of Greater St.
Louis on South Grand Boulevard near Gravois Avenue, she awkwardly grasped a
black pencil and traced the letters over the red ink lettering of her first
name.

On the fifth attempt, Harry took a leap. She wrote the six letters freehand,
without tracing. Each time afterward, her letters were clearer and firmer.
Eventually, her right thumb and her forefinger found a comfortable position to
hold the pencil.

In Liberia, only 42 percent of women older than 15 can read and write, and only
73 percent of the men over that age can do so, according to the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency's Web site.

"We come from a country area; our families were poor," said Martha Dour, a
classmate seated near Harry in the pre-literate class. They lived near each
other in the town of Tappite, Liberia, where their mothers were friends. Now the
women live near each other in St. Louis.

Since early November, more than 90 Liberian refugees have entered the United
States under the sponsorship of the institute. Most settled within walking
distance of Grand and Gravois.

The two women were among the 30 students who showed up on a recent day for the
pre-literate class. Most were Liberians, but others were Bantu Somalis,
Ethiopians, Eritreans and Vietnamese.

The class meets at 9 a.m. for three hours a day Monday through Thursday
year-round.

More typically, there are about 15 to 20 students, says the teacher, Marlene
Kruse, who devised the course after teaching English to literate refugees.
Volunteers are needed to give each student individual attention.

In the 1980s, Kruse, a former St. Louis high school teacher, loved to travel and
experience different cultures. For two years, she volunteered at the institute's
English language classes. Sixteen years ago, she was hired full time, and she
eventually developed the class for newcomers who have had less than two years of
classroom experience in any language.

The majority of refugees in St. Louis go directly to English reading and writing
classes. But others need a head start. Four men were in the class.

"Some in this class have never even held a pencil before," Kruse said.

Harry, Dour and their classmates were seated around eight round tables set in
two rows in a windowless corner classroom that Kruse has colorfully decorated
with printed and handmade posters.

But no grade school reading room ever looked like this.

One sign said, "Do Not Use Cell Phones." Another showed which coins to insert in
a parking meter. A more typical poster showed the faces and names of all the
U.S. presidents, because many in the class are determined to pass the
citizenship tests.

The class subject matter is for adults. Kruse tells the students not to leave
their houses or car doors unlocked, never to leave their young children alone,
and she teaches them how to talk to clinic doctors about pain and body parts.

There is no first day of school. The class is needed immediately by newcomers,
and it runs all year. Students may start any day. In late summer, when refugee
parents and grandparents register their children in school, more show up for the
class, so the current need for volunteer classroom aids is great.

On this occasion, many arrived more than 30 minutes late. A few elderly class
members weary after two hours and leave early.

"I think you have to be nonjudgmental in this job," said Kruse.

Encouraging students to arrive on time is a balancing act because she does not
want to shame them so they won't come at all. "We want to encourage them to
come, not to be isolated," she said.

When one woman arrived late, she went from table to table and kissed friends
from at least three nations. Kruse had patience enough to allow about 30 seconds
for the hugfest before taking back the class's attention.

She is understanding because many of the students lived in refugee camps for
years and have not had to be anywhere on time. Others come from rural areas with
scant need to tell time, so just getting them to the classroom is part of their
cultural education.

At each class, a simple but adult story is told about American life to teach
words, grammar, punctuation, numbers and how to get along in shops, clinics and
with government officials.

On this day, she read them a story about a fictional Susanna and her 16th
birthday party at her home. Stories are told one day and reviewed the following
several days. The next day, Kruse brought a birthday cake to share.

Much of the first two hours focused on understanding the personal pronouns "she"
and "they." Kruse also tried to help them distinguish the concepts of home and
house.

As she read the story, she wrote its words on the green board. The class read it
word by word on printed sheets in front of them. Words were repeated again and
again, and they even sang "Happy Birthday."

The simple story was a lesson in Western culture, too. In many of the students'
home countries, birthdays are not celebrated. Many refugees arrive at the
institute with visa papers that give Jan. 1 as their birthday, as if anything
more specific is considered frivolous in the lands of their birth.

"This is a huge class today," said Kruse. "I like to help each one of them with
their writing."

Dour is the star of the class. Though she had never been a student in a
classroom until mid-August, her children taught her the basics of reading and
writing.

Her standard American English is good; it's one of the 20 languages used in her
home country. By month's end, Kruse will promote Dour to a beginning English
reading and writing class.

Beth Radtke, former elementary school teacher, saw Harry struggling to copy the
number 16, the age of the story's birthday girl.

Harry wrote the numeral 6 on its back, as if it were a baby. Rather than correct
her, Radtke flipped over Harry's notebook, read her name on its cover and then
in block letters wrote the name "Yassah." She quickly showed Harry how to trace.

Two days later, Radtke still was excited about the little miracle that resulted
from her easy effort.

"Even when I taught school, I never taught anyone to write their name." she
said. "Children's parents had already done that. It was one of the 10 most
incredible experiences I've ever had."

How you can help The International Institute needs volunteers to help with its
class for pre-literate immigrants. The class runs from 9 a.m. to noon Mondays
through Thursdays year-round. To obtain more information or to volunteer call
314-775-9000.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Photos By KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Habibo Muhamud (left)
and Shamsu Mada are Somali women taking an English literacy course taught by
Marlene Kruse at the International Institute in St. Louis. (2) PHOTOS BY KEVIN
MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - Marlene Kruse holds a birthday cake, complete with
candles, as she instructs a group of Somalians about the American customs
concerning birthdays during a literacy course. The two women flanking her
preferred to remain unidentified.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              236 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 3, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

CONVENTION NOTEBOOK

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 840 words


Missouri delegates visit Ellis Island Before they left New York and the
Republican National Convention, Missouri delegates on Thursday toured the site
where millions of immigrants first arrived on American soil.

The trip to Ellis Island and the nearby Statue of Liberty was particularly
meaningful for Michelle Colbert of Steelville, Mo.

Her Polish great-grandparents were two of the 12 million American immigrants to
pass through the tiled halls and arched corridors of the storied station between
1890 and 1924.

"I tried to picture what it would have been like for them," said Colbert, a home
school mother in her town of 1,400. "It reminds me what they sacrificed to build
their lives and to build this country."

Colbert's husband, Ken, also found poignancy is his visit to the immigration
station, which closed in 1954. "A lot of pampered American children need to hear
these stories," said Ken Colbert, a dentist. "We take our economic freedom for
granted. I think that often people whose families have been here for generations
don't understand."

The delegation's vessel was escorted by a Coast Guard motorboat and patrolled by
an armed Coast Guard officer. There was also a five-member police SWAT team
dispatched to the ferry's dock upon the delegation's arrival. The officers would
not say whether the enhanced police presence was specifically for the
convention.

And while many in the Missouri delegation were making their visit Thursday
afternoon, the Illinois delegation enjoyed cocktails and a tour of the Stock
Exchange on Wall Street.

Teen works to honor injured policeman A 14-year-old Missourian has formed a
charitable fund in the name of New York police Detective William Sample Jr.-- a
plainclothes officer who was injured during a protest Monday and suffered a
broken jaw and severe bruises along his rib cage.

Stephanie Huett of Columbia, in New York with her mother, who is a delegate to
the Republican National Convention, said she felt an obligation to support
Sample, who was one of more than 12,000 New York City police officers on duty
for the GOP convention at Madison Square Garden.

"The detective was harmed protecting us," said the ninth-grader at Columbia
Independent School. "It's as simple as that."

So far, Stephanie -- whose mother, delegate Denna Huett, is a fund-raiser for
Rep. Kenny Hulshof, R-Mo. -- has been a chip off the old block, accumulating
more than $200 to donate in Sample's name to the NYPD's Widows and Children's
Fund as a gift from the Missouri delegation.

"It's really incredible that she's doing that," said Detective Rick Tirelli, the
secretary of the Detective's Endowment Association. "There really are people out
there who recognize what we do every day."

After one last appeal for contributions at Thursday night's convention
afterparty, Stephanie said she will deliver the money to the foundation this
morning.

Fund-raisers honor the Missouri master In a week when corporations and
fund-raisers sponsored exclusive parties to honor top elected leaders,
fund-raisers feted one of their own Thursday morning: Jack Oliver, who grew up
in the St. Louis area and is a presidential fund-raiser extraordinaire.

Top Republican fund-raisers from California, Florida, Kentucky, New York, New
Jersey, Texas, Washington and Missouri -- including the current ambassador to
Belgium, Steve Brauer, and Sam Fox of Clayton -- hosted the event at the
Ritz-Carlton next to Central Park.

Oliver, 35, served as President George W. Bush's finance director in his
record-breaking 2000 campaign. He now serves as deputy finance chairman for
Bush's re-election effort, which burst the record again, with $243 million
through July -- and still counting.

Guests were greeted by a poster with a caricature of Oliver, complete with his
gravity-defying shock of wavy hair parted to one side and cowboy boots. The
character stood in the middle of a map of the United States. But on this map,
all states were red (for Republican) states, except for Missouri, highlighted in
white. None were Democratic blue.

The room at the Ritz was packed. And longtime Oliver friend Annie Presley
suspects that Oliver's personal touch is why.

"He makes everybody feel comfortable about giving away their money," said
Presley, who runs The McKellar Group, a public affairs consulting company out of
Kansas City. "He's just easy and gentle and kind. That's why these people show
up to thank him for taking their money."

Among the party VIPs at the party were Bush campaign manager Ken Mehlman and
senior campaign strategist Matthew Dowd.

Oliver, long rumored to be a potential Missouri gubernatorial candidate, was
keeping his Missouri roots close by -- next to his shins, to be precise. He wore
black ostrich cowboy boots, his trademark, stamped with the Missouri state seal.

"My great-great grandmother, Marie Watkins Oliver, designed the Missouri state
flag," said Oliver, who also seemed impressed with the crowd that came out to
honor him. "I was humbled. These are my friends."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION AUGUST 30-SEPTEMBER 2, 2004 NEW YORK CITY

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              237 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 5, 2004 Sunday Three Star Edition

Mexican family gives up deportation fight

BYLINE: DAVID PITT The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Iowa


After a tearful farewell to Clarion, the town where their neighbors raised money
to fight their deportation order, Juan and Patricia Castillo and their three
children packed the family van and headed to Mexico last week.

The Castillos, who had lived as illegal immigrants in Clarion, 80 miles north of
Des Moines, for nine years, said they had no choice but to leave.

"It is sad. The kids just don't want to go," Patricia Castillo said Wednesday by
telephone as she began to cry. "I tell them I would give my life if it is
possible, and my husband will do everything he can to try to bring you back
again."

Immigration officials have considered the family fugitives since July.

The Castillos took their case to the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals as a
desperate final attempt to stay in the country.

On Tuesday, the court dismissed their case.

"They looked the case over and decided there wasn't anything these people were
eligible for," said their attorney, Joseph Lopez Wilson.

The Castillos entered the country illegally in 1995 after an economic downturn
in Mexico left Juan Castillo unemployed for several months. The family took a
bus to Clarion, where Patricia Castillo's sister lived, said friend Wendi
Harrah. The sister moved to Texas, but the Castillos stayed.

Juan Castillo, 44, worked at an agricultural sprayer manufacturing plant, and
Patricia Castillo, 39, worked at Electronic Data Systems in Clarion. Like the
parents, the children -- Santiago, 15, Veronica, 11, and Alejandra, 10 -- are
well-liked in the northern Iowa town of nearly 3,000 people.

The family bought a house and participated in community events.

Santiago Castillo, the Clarion-Goldfield junior varsity football team's
quarterback, fought back anger and frustration over the legal system that gave
his family no other choice.

"I don't want to run around like every other family, hide and not be able to do
anything," he said. "That's not the life that I want, and it's not the life my
sisters want."

The decision of immigration officials to force the Castillos to leave shocked
Clarion residents.

The community rallied in the family's defense, writing letters to politicians
and immigration officials and organizing fund-raisers to help pay legal bills.

Tim Counts, spokesman for the regional immigration office in St. Paul, Minn.,
said cases like the Castillos' are not uncommon.

"What's different in this is that there is a great level of support in the
community," he said.

The town held a picnic Sunday, and about 250 people showed up to help raise
money for the family's legal expenses.

On Tuesday evening, dozens of townspeople and the children's schoolmates visited
the family to say goodbye.

Patricia Castillo said her daughters took it hard.

"Their friends were with them, hanging around for hours, and the whole time they
were crying and crying and praying and praying. It's so emotional," she said.

Berta Alberts, an interpreter and family friend who has helped the Castillos
since they first arrived in Iowa, said the people of Clarion don't want to give
up.

They planned to drive to Reynosa, Mexico, where Patricia Castillo's mother
lives.

They had no plans beyond that.

Wilson said the family may pursue a student visa for Santiago so he could return
to school in Clarion. Santiago, who was 5 when the family left Mexico, said he's
not sure he would return if it meant leaving his parents and sisters.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: photo; Photo by CYNTHIA KANESHIRO / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Patricia
Castillo (right) talks with Doris Holmes ant her daughter, Kelli, at a
fund-raiser recently for the Castillos in Des Moines, Iowa. The townspeople of
Clarion, north of Des Moines, rallied around the family, who came to Iowa as
illegal immigrants from Mexico nine years ago.

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              238 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 27, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; World Digest; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 642 words


CHINA Nation's growth may test party's tenure

China's Communist Party called on its members Sunday to improve their ability to
run an increasingly complex nation, complaining that some of its own leaders
lack integrity and warning that the "life and death of the party" could hang in
the balance.

The appeal came in a report issued after a leadership meeting Sept. 19 and
sealed President Hu Jintao's leadership by appointing him head of China's
military, succeeding Jiang Zemin.

The report by the party Central Committee called on its members to "develop a
stronger sense of crisis" about reform, warning that communist rule "will not
remain forever if the party does nothing to safeguard it," the state-run Xinhua
News Agency reported.

Its urgent tone reflected the leadership's concern that rising anger at
corruption that has cost China billions of dollars and sparked numerous protests
could undermine public acceptance of communist rule.

SWITZERLAND Voters reject easing naturalization rules

Swiss voters rejected on Sunday two government proposals to loosen tough
naturalization rules.

Nearly 57 percent of voters in a referendum opposed granting automatic
citizenship to third-generation children born to immigrant families. Nearly 52
percent rejected easing naturalization rules for first- and second-generation
residents raised and schooled in the country.

About a fifth of the 7.2 million people living in Switzerland are not citizens,
most of them immigrants from Italy and the Balkans or their offspring. It is one
of the highest proportions in Europe.

Immigrants have to wait at least 12 years to apply for naturalization, and their
Swiss-born children and even grandchildren do not qualify automatically.

ITALY Pope praises effort to eliminate hunger

Pope John Paul II denounced on Sunday the imbalance between the world's rich and
poor and applauded efforts to eliminate hunger, like the recent U.N. plan to
increase funds for development.

The pontiff spoke at his summer palace in the hill town of Castel Gandolfo. He
said Sunday's Gospel passage about Lazarus, an impoverished man who begged to
eat the scraps from a rich man's table, was "ever more appropriate in reference
to the problem of the imbalance between the riches and poverty of the world
today."

Last week, the presidents of Brazil and France encouraged 110 countries to back
a new declaration to fight hunger and to increase funds for development.

The United States didn't join in the pledge. President George W. Bush's
administration objected to proposals for international taxes as undemocratic and
impossible to implement.

TURKEY Reforms target EU membership bid

A special session of parliament approved on Sunday legal reforms aimed at
opening the way for Turkey to begin membership talks with the European Union.
The move came after the governing party dropped a proposal to criminalize
adultery, a plan that had upset EU leaders.

The reform package, the first overhaul of the penal code in 78 years, includes
tougher measures against rape, pedophilia and torture and improves human rights
standards.

President Ahmet Necdet Sezer must approve the changes before they take effect.
The criminal code reforms follow changes that broadened freedom of expression,
granted greater rights to minority Kurds and trimmed the role of the military in
politics.

SPAIN In thick fog, cruise ship bumps tanker

A cruise ship carrying about 500 people collided Sunday with an oil tanker in
thick fog off southern Spain, causing damage to both vessels but no injuries or
environmental damage, officials said.

The cruise ship Van Gogh, registered in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, had left
from Gibraltar on Spain's southern coast and was headed for Tangiers, Morocco,
when it ran into the starboard side of the double-hulled Greek tanker Spetses.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              239 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 8, 2004 Monday Five Star Late Lift Edition

HISPANICS ARE THE FOCUS OF MEETING HERE/ SEMINARS WILL EXPLORE HOW GROWTH IS
AFFECTING SCHOOLS, WORKPLACES

BYLINE: Eun-Kyung Kim/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 394 words


Missouri's rapidly growing Hispanic population, the nation's largest ethnic
minority, will be the focus of a three-day conference this week, addressing how
that growth is affecting local economies, schools, health care and civil rights.

Cambio de Colores (Change of Colors) 2004 also will deal with how local
government agencies are dealing with the immigration of undocumented workers.

"The main theme of these conferences has always been understanding the
demographic changes in the state and then talking together about what that means
and how we can best respond," said Kay Gasen, co-chairwoman of the annual event.

The 2000 Census counted about 40,000 Latinos in the St. Louis metropolitan area,
but local activists suggest adding 15 percent to that f igure to include
undocumented workers living in the region.

In Missouri, the number of Hispanics nearly doubled in the last census, although
the group accounts for about 2 percent of the state's total population. Still,
the growth rate has already had an impact in area schools and in the work force,
and St. Louis must make plans to handle more growth, said Sergio Munoz, who will
be a moderator at the conference.

"If this is the largest minority class in the United States, and St. Louis is
perceived to be a comfortable community, a safe community to move to and to
raise a family, then you'll soon see them coming this way," he said. "Whenever
the job market fills up in Chicago, whenever the construction boom in Colorado
comes to an end, and then they start looking for places to settle, they're going
to see St. Louis as a viable opportunity."

About one out of every four Hispanics in Missouri lives in the St. Louis region,
which lacks Latino "barrios," or neighborhoods, common in other metro areas such
as Kansas City or Chicago. Instead, there are pockets of Hispanic neighborhoods
throughout the area - in St. Ann, St. Charles and Fairmont City.

"It's a culture that is integrating into Americana to a greater degree and
quicker degree than any other," said St. Charles Mayor Patti York.

York said the conference would help promote open discussion between social
services, government agencies, education officials and community activists.

Cambio de Colores will be held Wednesday through Friday at UMSL. For more
information or to register, go to www.cambiodecolores.org.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2/ Reporter Eun-Kyung Kim/ E-mail: ekim@post-dispatch.com/
Phone: 314-340-8116

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              240 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

           February 17, 2004 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

GOP SENATE HOPEFULS TALK TOUGHER IN DEBATE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


In a radio debate Monday night, Republicans running for an open U.S. Senate seat
took each other to task on experience, immigration reform and gay marriage.

Six of the eight GOP candidates competing in the primary March 16 participated
in the debate, showing more willingness to go after each other than they have in
past matchups.

Retired Air Force Maj. Gen. John Borling called dairy owner Jim Oberweis'
opposition to a guest worker program for illegal immigrants - a cornerstone of
Oberweis' campaign - "carnival barkering."

State Sen. Steve Rauschenberger told voters they should beware of novices in the
race, a dig at the wealthy businessmen without legislative experience who make
up most of the field.

And businessman Andy McKenna accused investment banker-turned-teacher Jack Ryan
of changing his position "three times in six months" on whether states or the
federal government should make decisions about gay marriage.

The debate opened with a question about whether a candidate's personal life
should be fair game for opponents hoping to win a campaign.

Ryan said, "I think a lot of us are getting turned off by politics because we
view it as, 'How do we best demonize our opponent?'" He noted that the Senate
race so far had been "very positive."

Rauschenberger said everything becomes fair game in a general election, and he
said he was the only candidate who had been vetted in multiple elections.

"In a field where you have a lot of novices, we have to be careful who we
nominate," Rauschenberger said.

Borling suggested earlier that Oberweis was posturing with his strong stand
against President George W. Bush's guest worker plan for illegal immigrants.

Oberweis said that the plan eventually could allow blanket amnesty for millions
of illegal immigrants and that voters expected straight talk from him.

Businessman Chirinjeev Kathuria, the only immigrant in the race, also said he
would be wary of a plan that could lead to amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Former state Rep. Jonathan Wright and retiree Norm Hill did not participate in
the debate, sponsored by Illinois Radio Network and WBBM-AM.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              241 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 17, 2004 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Edition

GOP SENATE HOPEFULS TALK TOUGHER IN DEBATE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


In a radio debate Monday night, Republicans running for an open U.S. Senate seat
took each other to task on experience, immigration reform and gay marriage.

Six of the eight GOP candidates competing in the March 16 primary participated
in the debate, showing more willingness to go after each other than they have in
past matchups.

Retired Air Force Maj. Gen. John Borling called dairy owner Jim Oberweis'
opposition to a guest worker program for illegal immigrants - a cornerstone of
his campaign - "carnival barkering." State Sen. Steve Rauschenberger told voters
they should beware of novices in the race, a dig at the wealthy businessmen
without legislative experience who make up most of the field.

And businessman Andy McKenna accused investment banker-turned-teacher Jack Ryan
of changing his position "three times in six months" on whether states or the
federal government should make decisions about gay marriage.

The debate opened with a question about whether a candidate's personal life
should be fair game for opponents hoping to win a campaign.

Ryan said, "I think a lot of us are getting turned off by politics because we
view it as, 'How do we best demonize our opponent?'" He noted that the Senate
race so far had been "very positive."

Rauschenberger said everything becomes fair game in a general election, and he
said he was the only candidate who had been vetted in multiple elections.

"In a field where you have a lot of novices, we have to be careful who we
nominate," Rauschenberger said.

The candidates generally agreed on issues including cutting taxes and amending
the U.S. Constitution to define marriage as an institution between one man and
one woman.

But McKenna said Ryan, who previously said the issue should be left to the
states, seemed to be unable to make up his mind. Ryan said he changed his view
after the Massachusetts Supreme Court ordered the state to allow gay marriages,
realizing that the federal government had to take charge.

Former state Rep. Jonathan Wright and retiree Norm Hill did not participate in
the debate, sponsored by Illinois Radio Network and WBBM-AM.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              242 of 242 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 27, 2004 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

MCNARY RUNS FOR TOP COUNTY JOB AGAIN/ HE WAS PREVIOUSLY COUNTY EXECUTIVE FOR 4
TERMS, STARTING IN '74

BYLINE: Martin Van Der Werf/ Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 249 words


A lucrative law practice and 10 years lived mostly out of the spotlight were not
enough for Gene McNary, one of the most familiar names in St. Louis politics.

He announced Thursday that he will run to regain his old office: St. Louis
County executive.

"I like politics, I like people, I like the campaign, it's in my blood," said
McNary, who has run 10 times before for local, state and federal offices.

He will be one of at least four candidates in the Republican primary, joining
County Council member Kurt Odenwald, Fenton Mayor Dennis Hancock and civic
activist Ed Golterman. The field may grow; the filing deadline is March 30.

McNary has started fund raising, and will be hitting up the business and
political leaders he has known for years in St. Louis, said his campaign
chairman, Hugh Scott, the former mayor of Clayton. McNary hopes to raise $2
million for the primary and general elections.

Entering the race is a return to his roots for McNary. He was elected the
county's prosecuting attorney in 1966, at age 31. He held two terms as
prosecuting attorney then was elected in 1974 to the first of four terms as
county executive. He left that post in 1989 to head up the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

McNary, 68, practices immigration law in Clayton. But he said he liked "being
part of local leadership for 15 years, and I want to get into that role again."

He had not considered another run for office until George R. "Buzz" Westfall
died in October.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: METRO PAGE 2/ Reporter Martin Van Der Werf/ E-mail:
mvanderwerf@post-dispatch.com/ Phone: 314-727-6234

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Gene) McNary, Campaign is "in my blood"

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
