
                               1 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: 0


Arizona backs off on adding to anti-immigration laws

Arizona established itself over the past year as the most aggressive state in
cracking down on illegal immigrants, gaining so much momentum that several other
states have vowed to follow suit. But now the realities of economics have
intruded, and Arizona may be looking to shed the image of hard-line
anti-immigration pioneer.

In an abrupt change of course, Arizona lawmakers rejected new anti-immigration
measures, in what was widely seen as capitulation to pressure from business
executives and an admission that the state's tough stance had resulted in a
chilling of the normally robust tourism and convention industry. The state
Senate voted down five bills Thursday that, among other things, sought to
require hospitals to inform law enforcement officials when treating patients
suspected of being in the country illegally and to prod the Supreme Court to
rule against automatic citizenship for U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

FDA considering menthol cigarette ban - A federal advisory panel Friday said
removing menthol cigarettes from the market would benefit public health in the
United States but did not make any specific recommendation for action by the
Food and Drug Administration. The FDA will review the findings of its Tobacco
Products Scientific Advisory Committee and perform its own research and policy
study, said Lawrence Deyton, director of the FDA Center for Tobacco Products.

4 censured over Navy video - The Secretary of the Navy issued censure letters
Friday to four high-ranking officers over a series of raunchy videos shown to
thousands of sailors aboard the aircraft carrier Enterprise, including the
captain who produced and starred in many of them. A letter of censure does not
end a military officer's career, but it makes it unlikely that the officer will
be promoted. Capt. Owen P. Honors Jr., who was the aircraft carrier's No. 2
officer when he helped produce and appeared in the series of videos that aired
on the ship's closed-circuit TV station, Rear Adms. Ron Horton and Larry Rice,
both former commanders of the Enterprise, and Capt. John Dixon, received the
censure letters.

Jailhouse tapes allowed - A judge has rejected defense efforts Friday to toss
taped jailhouse conversations between family members and a Florida mom accused
of killing her daughter. Casey Anthony is charged with first-degree murder in
the death of her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee. She has pleaded not guilty and
says Caylee was kidnapped by a baby sitter. Her trial is set to begin in May.

Obama trip set - President Barack Obama will begin travel today on a
long-planned trip to Brazil, Chile and El Salvador, intended to focus on the
economy. The White House said the Latin American trip is important despite
growing problems in other parts of the world because it affects the U.S. economy
and the region's future.

Sexual side effect noted in men - Hair-loss products that contain the drug
finasteride and are sold under the brand names Propecia and Proscar are known to
cause sexual side effects in some men. A new study suggests that the sexual
dysfunction can last for several months after stopping the medications.

Deal reached on gray wolves - Facing mounting pressure from lawmakers over gray
wolves, wildlife advocates reached an agreement with the federal government
Friday to lift protections for the species in Montana and Idaho and to allow
hunting.

- Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Digest

BYLINE: Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: 0


Arizona backs off on adding to anti-immigration laws

Arizona established itself over the past year as the most aggressive state in
cracking down on illegal immigrants, gaining so much momentum that several other
states have vowed to follow suit. But now the realities of economics have
intruded, and Arizona may be looking to shed the image of hard-line
anti-immigration pioneer.

In an abrupt change of course, Arizona lawmakers rejected new anti-immigration
measures, in what was widely seen as capitulation to pressure from business
executives and an admission that the state's tough stance had resulted in a
chilling of the normally robust tourism and convention industry. The state
Senate voted down five bills Thursday that, among other things, sought to
require hospitals to inform law enforcement officials when treating patients
suspected of being in the country illegally and to prod the Supreme Court to
rule against automatic citizenship for U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

FDA considering menthol cigarette ban - A federal advisory panel Friday said
removing menthol cigarettes from the market would benefit public health in the
United States but did not make any specific recommendation for action by the
Food and Drug Administration. The FDA will review the findings of its Tobacco
Products Scientific Advisory Committee and perform its own research and policy
study, said Lawrence Deyton, director of the FDA Center for Tobacco Products.

4 censured over Navy video - The Secretary of the Navy issued censure letters
Friday to four high-ranking officers over a series of raunchy videos shown to
thousands of sailors aboard the aircraft carrier Enterprise, including the
captain who produced and starred in many of them. A letter of censure does not
end a military officer's career, but it makes it unlikely that the officer will
be promoted. Capt. Owen P. Honors Jr., who was the aircraft carrier's No. 2
officer when he helped produce and appeared in the series of videos that aired
on the ship's closed-circuit TV station, Rear Adms. Ron Horton and Larry Rice,
both former commanders of the Enterprise, and Capt. John Dixon, received the
censure letters.

Jailhouse tapes allowed - A judge has rejected defense efforts Friday to toss
taped jailhouse conversations between family members and a Florida mom accused
of killing her daughter. Casey Anthony is charged with first-degree murder in
the death of her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee. She has pleaded not guilty and
says Caylee was kidnapped by a baby sitter. Her trial is set to begin in May.

Obama trip set - President Barack Obama will begin travel today on a
long-planned trip to Brazil, Chile and El Salvador, intended to focus on the
economy. The White House said the Latin American trip is important despite
growing problems in other parts of the world because it affects the U.S. economy
and the region's future.

Sexual side effect noted in men - Hair-loss products that contain the drug
finasteride and are sold under the brand names Propecia and Proscar are known to
cause sexual side effects in some men. A new study suggests that the sexual
dysfunction can last for several months after stopping the medications.

Deal reached on gray wolves - Facing mounting pressure from lawmakers over gray
wolves, wildlife advocates reached an agreement with the federal government
Friday to lift protections for the species in Montana and Idaho and to allow
hunting.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Justices go deeper in politics Supreme Court will hear challenge to Arizona
immigration law.

BYLINE: By MARK SHERMAN o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 964 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court stepped into the fight Monday over a tough
Arizona law that requires local police to help enforce federal immigration laws
- pushing the court deeper into hot, partisan issues of the 2012 election
campaign.

The court's election year docket now contains three politically charged
disputes; the others are President Barack Obama's health care overhaul and Texas
redistricting.

The debate over immigration already is shaping presidential politics, and now
the court is undertaking a review of an Arizona law that has spawned a host of
copycat state laws targeting illegal immigrants.

The court will review a federal appeals court ruling that blocked several
provisions in the Arizona law. One of those requires that police, while
enforcing other laws, question a person's immigration status if officers suspect
he or she is in the country illegally.

The case is the court's biggest foray into immigration law in decades, said
Temple University law professor Peter Spiro, an expert in that area.

The White House challenged the Arizona law by arguing that regulating
immigration is the job of the federal government, not that of states. Similar
laws in Alabama, South Carolina and Utah also are facing administration
lawsuits. Private groups are suing over immigration measures adopted in Georgia
and Indiana.

"This case is not just about Arizona. It's about every state grappling with the
costs of illegal immigration," Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, said after
the court's announcement Monday.

Fifty-nine Republicans in Congress, including presidential contender Michele
Bachmann, filed a brief with the court backing the Arizona law.

The immigration case, like the challenge to Obama's health care overhaul, pits
Republican-led states against the Democratic administration in an argument about
the reach of federal power. The redistricting case has a similarly partisan
tinge to it, with Republicans who control the state government in Texas facing
off against Democrats and minority groups that tend to vote Democratic.

In the immigration arena, the states say that the federal government isn't doing
enough to address a major problem and that border states are suffering
disproportionately.

The issue has been widely discussed by the Republican presidential hopefuls.
They have mostly embraced a hard line to avoid accusations that they support any
kind of "amnesty" for the some 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be
living in the U.S.

Newt Gingrich was most recently criticized by his opponents for saying he would
grant legal status to some with long-standing family and community ties, and
Gingrich has since endorsed the South Carolina law that allows police to demand
a person's immigration status. That law is among the four state laws that have
been challenged by the White House.

Brewer signed the Arizona immigration measure into law in April 2010. The
administration sued three months later to block it from taking effect.

In April, a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco upheld a federal judge's ruling halting enforcement of several
provisions of the law. Among the blocked provisions: requiring all immigrants to
obtain or carry immigration registration papers; making it a state criminal
offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job; and allowing police
to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.

In October, the federal appeals court in Atlanta blocked parts of the Alabama
law that forced public schools to check the immigration status of students and
allowed police to file criminal charges against people who were unable to prove
their citizenship.

Lawsuits in South Carolina and Utah are not as far along.

The administration argued that the justices should have waited to see how other
courts ruled on the challenges to other laws before getting involved. Still,
after the court's announcement Monday, White House spokesman Jay Carney said,
"We look forward to arguing our point of view in that case when the time comes."

Spiro, the Temple University immigration expert, said the court easily could
have passed on the Arizona case for now. "They could have waited for the more
extreme case to come from Alabama, which really outflanked the Arizona law,"
Spiro said.

He predicted the court would uphold the police check of immigration status but
perhaps not the measure making it a crime to be without immigration documents.

Arguments probably will take place in late April, which would give the court
roughly two months to decide the case

Justice Elena Kagan will not take part in the case, presumably because of her
work on the issue when she served in the Justice Department.

The case is Arizona v. U.S., 11-182.

Hot topics on 2012 docket

The court's election-year docket now contains three politically charged
disputes:

Arizona immigration law - The state now requires that police, while enforcing
other laws, question a person's immigration status if officers suspect he or she
is in the country illegally. The White House argues that regulating immigration
is the job of the federal government, not that of states. Arguments will
probably take place in late April.

Texas redistricting - Texas and other Southern states have elections scheduled
under redistricting plans that have not been approved under the Voting Rights
Act. At the center of the dispute is federal protection for minorities' voting
rights. Arguments have been scheduled for Jan. 9.

Health care overhaul - The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act aims to
provide health insurance to more than 30 million previously uninsured Americans.
But Republicans have branded the law unconstitutional, largely because of its
mandate for individuals to buy coverage. The court's ruling is expected before
July 4.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Arizona immigration law largely rejected SUPREME COURT RULINGS

BYLINE: Associated Press Bill Lambrecht and Elizabeth Crisp of the Post-Dispatch
contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1449 words

DATELINE: 0


THE ISSUE - The Arizona case focused on whether states can adopt their own
measures to deal with illegal immigration amid federal inaction, or whether the
federal government has almost exclusive authority in that area. The court ruled
that regulating immigration is a federal responsibility.

UPHELD - The court unanimously said Arizona's police can check the immigration
status of people they have stopped for other reasons if police believe they
might be illegal immigrants. But the court said the federal government has the
ultimate authority to decide who will be held on immigration charges and
deported.

REJECTED - In split decisions, the court struck down major provisions: o
Requiring all immigrants to obtain or carry immigration registration papers. o
Making it a state criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold
a job. o Allowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without
warrants.

---

WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court threw out key provisions of Arizona's crackdown
on illegal immigrants Monday but said a much-debated portion could go forward -
that police must check the status of people stopped for various reasons who
might appear to be in the U.S. illegally.

The court struck down these three major provisions: requiring all immigrants to
obtain or carry immigration registration papers, making it a state criminal
offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job and allowing police
to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.

The court upheld the "show me your papers" requirement, but even there the
justices said the provision could be subject to additional legal challenges. And
they removed some teeth by prohibiting officers from arresting people on
immigration charges.

The administration of President Barack Obama had assailed the Arizona law as an
unconstitutional intrusion into an area under Washington's control, and the
court struck down provisions that would have made state crimes out of federal
immigration violations.

The Arizona case focused on whether states can adopt their own measures to deal
with an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the face of federal inaction
on comprehensive reform, or whether the federal government has almost exclusive
authority in that area.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, joined in his majority opinion by conservative Chief
Justice John Roberts as well as three liberal justices - Stephen Breyer, Ruth
Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor - said the impasse in Washington over
immigration reform did not justify state intrusion.

"Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the problems caused by
illegal immigration while that process continues, but the state may not pursue
policies that undermine federal law," Kennedy said.

Several lawmakers and civil rights groups said the part of the law left in place
by the high court was an invitation to racial profiling.

Members of Congress from the St. Louis region cast an eye to the future when
reacting to the ruling.

Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., said he had "great concerns" with the decision and blamed
the federal government for failing to secure the border. "This impacts our
nation's economy, schools, hospitals, criminal justice system and communities
across America, and it's why Arizona had to take these steps in the first place.
We need a long-term solution," he said.

Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, said he was encouraged by a ruling that
"confirms the urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform that is honest,
compassionate and enforceable across the country. "

Clay added that he was troubled that the court upheld the provision enabling
police to check a person's immigration status. That provision, he asserted,
"could result in racial profiling by law enforcement agencies. ... Law
enforcement agencies in Arizona and elsewhere must not take this ruling as a
license to judge individuals solely by what they look like."

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., observed that the court had signaled that it would be
open to challenges of that part of the law. "I am confident that this provision,
which will encourage racial profiling and ultimately harm law enforcement, will
eventually be struck down," he said, adding that the overall ruling "makes it
clear that it's up to Congress to take reasonable steps to address illegal
immigration."

A spokesman for Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said that she was reviewing the
ruling, "but, as a former prosecutor, she supports looking for common sense
solutions that balance enforcement of our laws while also protecting the rights
of individuals who are U.S. citizens or legal immigrants."

Contenders for Missouri's GOP Senate nomination spoke of the need to protect
states' rights. John Brunner said it was "absolutely critical that our states
have the authority and ability to enforce immigration law to ensure the safety
of our citizens and maintain the rule of law, especially when the federal
government fails to do its job."

Sarah Steelman, like Brunner, said she was thankful that the court upheld the
provision enabling police to run checks on a person's immigration status if
reasonable suspicion exists that immigration laws were violated.

U.S. Rep. Todd Akin called the decision "a mixed bag."

"Illegal immigration hurts our country in numerous ways, and it is sad that
states are doing more to enforce our immigration laws than the federal
government," he said.

Meanwhile, Missouri state Sen. Will Kraus, a Republican from Lee's Summit who
sponsored multiple immigration bills the past legislative session in Jefferson
City, said he thought the court ruling could make a strong case for future
reform at the Capitol.

None of Kraus' immigration bills made it to the Senate floor this session.
Critics of the bills argued that the state should wait until the court decided
the constitutionality of Arizona's law before moving forward.

Joan Suarez, chair of Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates, said she hoped
lawmakers wouldn't use the court case as a crutch to pass immigration laws in
the same vein as Arizona's.

"I would hate to see the Arizonification of Missouri," she said.

The court announced that Thursday would be the last day of rulings this term,
which means the decision on Obama's landmark health care overhaul probably will
come that day.

The Arizona decision landed in the middle of a presidential campaign in which
Obama has been heavily courting Latino voters and Republican challenger Mitt
Romney has been struggling to win Latino support. During a drawn-out primary
campaign, Romney and the other GOP candidates mostly embraced a hard line on
illegal immigrants, though Romney has lately taken a softer tone.

Obama said he was pleased that the court struck down key parts of Arizona's law
but concerned about what the high court left intact.

"No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what
they look like," the president said in a written statement.

Romney did not immediately comment on the court decision Monday but said, "I
believe that each state has the duty - and the right - to secure our borders and
preserve the rule of law, particularly when the federal government has failed to
meet its responsibilities."

In Monday's decision, the court was unanimous on allowing the immigration status
check to go forward. The justices were divided on striking down the other
portions.

Justice Kennedy said the law could - and suggested it should - be read to avoid
concerns that status checks could lead to prolonged detention.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said the ruling marked a victory for people who believe
in the responsibility of states to defend their residents. The case, she said,
"has always been about our support for the rule of law. That means every law,
including those against both illegal immigration and racial profiling. Law
enforcement will be held accountable should this statute be misused in a fashion
that violates an individual's civil rights."

Civil rights groups that separately challenged the law over concerns that it
would lead to rights abuses said their lawsuit would go on.

Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas would have allowed all the
challenged provisions to take effect. Justice Samuel Alito would have allowed
police to arrest undocumented immigrants who seek work, and also make arrests
without warrants.

Justice Elena Kagan sat out the case because of her work in the Obama
administration.

The case is Arizona v. U.S., 11-182.

---

"Today is a day when the key components of our efforts to protect the citizens
of Arizona - to take up the fight against illegal immigration in a balanced and
constitutional way - has unanimously been vindicated by the highest court in the
land."

- Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Supreme court rulings

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Associated Press Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer  Photo by Ross D.
Franklin o Associated Press Members of Promise Arizona, an organization that
advocates for immigrants, mark the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling Monday on the
state's immigration law.  Photo by Ross D. Franklin o Associated Press People at
the Arizona Capitol mark the U.S. Supreme Court ruling on the state's
immigration law. After the ruling, the Department of Homeland Security canceled
agreements with seven Arizona police departments that deputized officers to make
immigration violation arrests while on patrol.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Razing Arizona Our view o Supreme Court knocks down extreme immigration law.
OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: 0


The most important sentence in Monday's ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court to
declare unconstitutional most parts of a draconian illegal immigration law in
Arizona offers a history lesson about what the word "illegal" actually means on
an issue that has divided America.

"Removal is a civil matter," the court held, "and one of its principal features
is the broad discretion exercised by immigration officials, who must decide
whether to pursue removal at all."

In other words, being an undocumented worker - or being the child of parents who
crossed the border between Mexico and America without proper authorization, or
being a Canadian or Bosnian who overstayed the parameters of a work visa - isn't
necessarily a crime.

Put it this way: If you have received a parking ticket but never have been
arrested for any other crime, can you answer "no" when asked on a job
application whether you have an arrest record?

Of course you can. So can most so-called illegal immigrants.

The court, in saying that Arizona - and many other states - had gone too far in
trying to give local police broad immigration enforcement powers, put the debate
back squarely where it should be: on the federal government's shoulders.

And while Justice Anthony Kennedy might not have been thinking about President
Barack Obama's recent executive order that delayed the deportation proceedings
for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants who haven't otherwise broken the
law, his opinion, joined by four other justices, supports it in theory as part
of the federal government's "broad discretion."

At issue in Arizona were four sections of the state law. The most onerous
provision allowed police to detain any person suspected of being in the country
illegally. That raised the very real specter of rogue law enforcement agents
harassing Hispanic immigrants, no matter their legal status.

That provision, combined with ones that would have created a new state
misdemeanor for an undocumented immigrant failing to register with the federal
government or attempting to seek employment, would have served notice to
immigrants all over the world: Don't come to Arizona.

The court ruled that all three of those provisions were in conflict with federal
law, making them null and void. The court allowed one provision to stand; it
permits police officers to check the immigration status of people arrested on
other offenses. But the court made it clear that even that provision was ripe
for a constitutional challenge in the state courts should it be applied
unfairly.

Missouri law has a similar provision, enacted in 2008, that requires arresting
agencies to check the immigration status of those who have been "charged and
confined."

Key to Missouri's law, and Arizona's, is that the provision doesn't give local
authorities the right to detain individuals based on immigration status alone.
Authorities merely are obliged to report them to federal authorities.

The court's ruling, which probably would have been 6-3 had Justice Elena Kagan
not recused herself, sends about as clear a message as the divided court has
issued this year: State legislatures dabbling mostly for political purposes in
extreme anti-immigration policies should cease and desist.

Arizona acted - and overreacted - because Congress couldn't summon the courage
for immigration reform. Now Congress must do its job by passing a new blueprint
for welcoming the next generation of huddled masses yearning to breathe free.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Ross D. Franklin o AP Rosa Maria Soto (right) and Maria
Durand, both from Arizona, cheer as they react to the Supreme Court's decision
regarding Arizona's immigration law.  Graphic by R.J. Matson o Post-Dispatch
Matson's View - U.S. Immigration Policy - Supreme Court Ruling on Arizona Law

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration ruling worries group here Court decision in Arizona case may prompt
more racial profiling, refugee advocates say.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE o dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - The Supreme Court decision this week to leave standing a key
provision of Arizona's illegal immigration law has local advocates concerned
that it could open the door to broader racial profiling laws around the country,
including Missouri.

A coalition of agencies led by Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates held a
news conference Wednesday on the steps of the Thomas F. Eagleton U.S. Courthouse
to respond to the high court's decision.

"We're pleased as punch" that almost all the law was thrown out, said Joan
Suarez, chairman of MIRA, "but saddened they didn't take it one step further."

The provision the Supreme Court let stand says Arizona police must check the
immigration status of those stopped for various reasons who might appear to be
in the U.S. illegally.

Suarez said leaving that part of the law intact could lead to a great deal of
racial profiling and "copycatting in a lot of states, including Missouri."

St. Louis County Police Chief Tim Fitch said the Arizona law doesn't clearly
define what "reasonable suspicion" is for thinking someone might be in the
country illegally.

"Is it dark skin? Is it an accent?" he said. "The court did not lay that out for
law enforcement."

Fitch agrees that illegal immigration issues should be left to federal
authorities.

"We don't want to take officers off the street to handle federal law," Fitch
said. "Clearly, we already have our hands full."

Immigration has become a high profile issue in the past few weeks, nationally
and locally.

On June 15, President Barack Obama, through an executive order, announced that
illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children will be able to apply for
work permits and avoid deportation. On Monday, the Supreme Court struck down
most of the Arizona immigration law, including requiring all immigrants to carry
immigration registration papers; making it a state criminal offense for an
illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job; and allowing police to arrest
suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.

Locally, a study released last week by economic development officials in St.
Louis and St. Louis County revealed that one reason the region's growth has
fallen behind many other big cities is the low rate of immigration here.

About 126,000 St. Louisans, less than 5 percent of the region's population, were
born overseas. That rate is four or five times less than most of the rest of the
nation's 20 biggest metro areas, the study found.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration law is upheld Companies that repeatedly hire illegal workers may be
punished by states, Supreme Court rules.

BYLINE: BY DAVID G. SAVAGE o Tribune Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Thursday gave Arizona and other states more
authority to take action against illegal immigrants and the companies that hire
them, ruling that employers who knowingly hire illegal workers can lose their
license to do business.

Missouri has enacted a similar law, as has Colorado, Mississippi, Pennsylvania,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.

The 5-3 decision upholds the Legal Arizona Workers Act of 2007 and its so-called
business death penalty for employers who are caught repeatedly hiring illegal
immigrants. The state law also requires employers to check the federal E-Verify
system before hiring new workers, a provision that was also upheld Thursday.

The court's decision did not deal with the more controversial Arizona law passed
last year that gave police more authority to stop and question those who are
suspected of being in the state illegally. But the ruling is likely to encourage
the state and its supporters because the court majority said states remained
free to take action involving immigrants.

Thursday's decision is a defeat for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, several civil
rights groups and the Obama administration, all of whom opposed the Arizona law
and its sanctions on employers. They argued that federal law said states may not
impose "civil or criminal sanctions" on employers.

But Chief Justice John Roberts said another portion of the same law made clear
that states were free to use their "licensing" laws to punish employers.
Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito
formed the majority in Chamber of Commerce vs. Whiting.

The Arizona law upheld Thursday was signed into law by then-Gov. Janet
Napolitano, who now serves as secretary of homeland security for President
Barack Obama.

In dissent were Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia
Sotomayor. They said federal law prohibited states from imposing their own
immigration-related rules on employers. Justice Elena Kagan sat out the case.

Soon after the Arizona employment law took effect, lawyers for the chamber and
civil rights group sued, contending it was pre-empted or trumped by federal
immigration laws. But a federal judge and the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
upheld the Arizona measure. The Supreme Court affirmed those decisions Thursday.

The other Arizona law involving police enforcement has been challenged -
successfully, so far - by the Obama administration and civil rights groups. They
say enforcement of laws against illegal immigration is exclusively in the hands
of federal authorities. A federal judge and the 9th U.S. Court of Appeals have
put that Arizona law on hold. Gov. Jan Brewer said she planned to appeal the
issue to the Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Sharp drop seen in illegal Mexicans Poor U.S. economy, violence along border are
seen as factors in decline.

BYLINE: By HOPE YEN o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - The number of Mexican immigrants living illegally in the U.S. has
dropped significantly for the first time in decades, a dramatic shift as many
illegal workers, already in the U.S. and seeing few job opportunities, return to
Mexico.

An analysis of census data from the U.S. and Mexican governments details the
movement to and from Mexico, a nation accounting for nearly 60 percent of the
illegal immigrants in the U.S. It comes amid renewed debate over U.S.
immigration policy as the Supreme Court hears arguments this week on Arizona's
tough immigration law.

Roughly 6.1 million unauthorized Mexican immigrants were living in the U.S. last
year, down from a peak of nearly 7 million in 2007, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center study released Monday. It was the biggest sustained drop in
modern history, believed to be surpassed in scale only by losses in the
Mexican-born U.S. population during the Great Depression.

Much of the drop in illegal immigration is due to the persistently weak U.S.
economy, which has shrunk construction and service sector jobs attractive to
Mexican workers after the housing bust. But increased deportations, heightened
U.S. patrols and violence along the border also have played a role, as well as
demographic changes, such as Mexico's declining birth rate.

In all, the Mexican-born population in the U.S. last year - legal and illegal -
fell to 12 million, marking an end to an immigration boom dating to the 1970s,
when foreign-born residents from Mexico stood at 760,000. The 2007 peak was 12.6
million.

Christian Ballesteros, who has been at a shelter for immigrants in Matamoros,
Mexico, across the border from Brownsville, Texas, pointed to stiffer U.S.
penalties for repeat offenders as well as brutal criminal groups that control
the Mexican side of the border as reasons for the immigration decline.
Ballesteros, who has been deported four times, was recently caught after hopping
the border fence near Nogales, Ariz.

"The Mexican cartels are taking over, are actually being like the border patrols
on this side," Ballesteros said. "They threaten them, 'If you don't pay, what
we're going to do is we're going to cut your head off.'"

After his last apprehension by U.S. authorities, Ballesteros was sent to a
detention center in Las Vegas for 2 1/2 months. He fears it could be six months
if he's caught again. "You can lose money, but if you lose time, there's no way
you can recover that time," Ballesteros said, noting that many immigrants have
families to support.

Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at Pew who co-wrote the analysis, said
Mexican immigration may never return to its height during the mid-decade housing
and construction boom, even with the U.S. economy recovering. He cited
longer-term factors such as a shrinking Mexican workforce.

He noted that government data now show a clear shift among Mexican workers
already in the U.S. who are returning home. He said that data are a sign that
many immigrants are giving up on life in the U.S., feeling squeezed by
increasing enforcement and limited opportunities that they don't see improving
anytime soon.

About 1.4 million Mexicans left the U.S. between 2005 and 2010, double the
number who did so a decade earlier. Meanwhile, the number of Mexicans who
entered the U.S. fell sharply to about 1.4 million, putting net migration from
Mexico at a standstill. More recent data suggest that most of the movement is
now heading back to Mexico, accounting for fewer illegal immigrants.

During the same period, the population of authorized Mexican immigrants edged
higher, from 5.6 million to 5.8 million.

Among Mexican immigrants who leave the U.S., an estimated 5 percent to 35
percent are deported while the rest go back voluntarily, often taking U.S.-born
children with them. Those who were in the U.S. illegally and returned to Mexico
also are increasingly saying they will not try to return - about 20 percent,
compared with 7 percent in 2005.

The Pew estimates come amid heightened attention on immigration in an election
year where the fast-growing Hispanic population, now roughly 16 percent of the
U.S. population, could play a key role. Arizona's law, being challenged by the
federal government in the Supreme Court, seeks to expand the authority of police
to ask about the immigration status of anybody they stop on the rationale that
federal enforcement has largely failed.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ANALYSIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

5 accused in novel human smuggling scheme

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: 0


LOS ANGELES - Five people have been indicted in connection with an alleged human
smuggling ring that used non-Spanish-speaking, African-American drivers to
shuttle illegal immigrants from the border in a bid to elude detection,
authorities said.

Maria Lopez-Diaz, 60, of Compton, Calif., and three others were arrested
Thursday on counts related to the transportation of illegal immigrants in
special compartments and the trunks of cars, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
said.

The ring coordinated with international smugglers to pick up illegal immigrants
once they crossed the border and transport them to Los Angeles, officials said.

Lopez-Diaz recruited poor black drivers from south Los Angeles hoping they would
not arouse the suspicion of authorities near the border. The drivers' inability
to communicate with the immigrants also meant they had limited information about
the broader smuggling scheme, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo from ASSOCIATED PRESS This undated image provided by the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shows an individual smuggled inside an
engine compartment discovered at the U.S. border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hear it. Reject it. Our view o Justices should make short work of Arizona
immigration law.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: 0


The U.S. Supreme Court has saved one of its highest-profile cases for the last
scheduled public hearing of the 2011-2012 term. It was scheduled to hear oral
arguments today in Arizona v. United States, a dispute over the controversial
state immigration law Arizona enacted in 2010.

Lower courts ordered Arizona not to enforce four key provisions of the law,
ruling that they essentially set up a separate state-level system of immigration
law and enforcement. That conflicts with the national system devised by the
executive branch with the authority of Congress and the Constitution. In such
situations, federal law preempts and invalidates state law.

The Supreme Court should affirm the findings of the lower courts.

Arizona's Senate Bill 1070 became controversial for the likelihood of
encouraging racial and ethnic profiling and harassing people solely on the basis
of their appearance, their accents, their apparent economic status or various
combinations of all three. But possible breaches of civil rights and due process
are not before the Supreme Court.

Instead, the Justice Department has challenged four provisions that most clearly
illustrate the conflict between Arizona's alternative immigration scheme and the
federal system.

One provision, for example, requires state and local law enforcement officers to
detain anyone they suspect of having entered the country illegally and keep them
in custody until their status is determined to be valid. A second authorizes law
enforcement officers to conduct warrantless searches based on a suspicion that
someone may have committed a crime that would be grounds for deportation.

The third provision being challenged makes it a state crime for a person to be
without proof of citizenship, government-issued identification or documents
affirming authorized immigrant status. The fourth makes it a state crime for
immigrants to apply for work, accept work or even make themselves available for
work if their presence in the United States is unauthorized.

On one hand, Arizona argues in its brief to the Supreme Court that its law
simply establishes "parallel" state efforts to enforce federal law and enhances
cooperation and communication between state and federal authorities. Yet in
other sections of the brief, Arizona invokes unrestricted state police power to
maintain law and order.

Arizona can't have it both ways. Contrary to SB 1070, federal law does not
criminalize work. An immigrant who lacks official authorization to be in the
United States is not guilty of a federal crime, but he would be guilty of a
state criminal offense under SB 1070.

More than anything else, the federal system allows for discretion in adopting
strategies and setting enforcement priorities in response to changing
circumstances. The Arizona system rejects that federal approach entirely and
tried to eliminate discretion.

America's immigration system has many serious problems and long has needed new
federal legislation to address them. But the system hardly is non-functional. A
Congressional Research Service report released in January offers a detailed
overview.

The ugly truth is that the Republican majority of elected Arizona state
officials in 2010 decided they didn't like the federal immigration system and
decided to create their own. They have every right to not like the federal
system and to work to change it; they have no right to concoct one of their own
to supplant it.

The Supreme Court should reject Arizona's disingenuous arguments.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: 0


Arizona immigration law's most contentious provision is upheld

Arizona authorities can enforce the most contentious section of the state's
heavily debated immigration law, according to a federal judge's ruling Wednesday
regarding a section of the statute that critics have dubbed the "show me your
papers" provision.

The ruling by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton clears the way for police to
carry out the requirement that officers, while enforcing other laws, question
the immigration status of those they suspect are in the country illegally.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer hailed the ruling on what she called "the most critical
section" of the state's immigration law.

Critics have assailed the provision as un-American, saying it paves the way for
ethnic discrimination and racial profiling.

Reported theft of Romney tax records probed - The Secret Service said Wednesday
it is investigating the reported theft of copies of Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney's federal tax records during a break-in at an accounting
office in Franklin. Someone claiming responsibility demanded $1 million not to
make them public.

An anonymous letter sent to Romney's accounting firm and political offices in
Tennessee and published online sought $1 million in hard-to-trace Internet
currency to prevent the disclosure of his tax filings, which have emerged as a
key focus during the 2012 presidential race. Romney released his 2010 tax
returns and a 2011 estimate in January, but he has refused to disclose his
returns from earlier years.

Romney's accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, said there was no evidence any
Romney tax files were stolen.

Indian tribe to increase criminal penalties - The Hopi will be one of the
earliest tribes to increase criminal sentences under a landmark federal law
meant to improve public safety on American Indian reservations - where a
historic gap in the U.S. justice system has left tribes with little authority
over offenders on their lands.

The Hopi tribe recently updated its criminal code for the first time since 1972
with changes that comply with provisions of the Tribal Law and Order Act passed
two years ago. Regardless of whether the crime was murder or something far less
severe, all were considered misdemeanors with a maximum punishment in tribal
court of a year in jail.

The changes that go into effect this month create a class of felonies that could
send convicted offenders to jail for up to three years for a single crime or
nine years with stacked sentences for multiple offenses.

50,000 drug samples linked to suspect chemist - The chemist at the center of a
scandal that shut down a Massachusetts state crime lab last week was involved in
testing more than 50,000 drug samples.

State police say they don't know how many of the cases might be affected by the
chemist's alleged failure to follow protocols. But the high number of samples
involved raises the possibility of an enormous number of legal challenges from
people convicted or awaiting trial.

Booby trap suspect pleads guilty - One of the two young men accused of setting
potentially deadly booby traps along a popular hiking trail in Utah has pleaded
guilty to reckless endangerment.

Court records show Benjamin Rutkowski, 20, entered his plea Wednesday in Provo's
4th District Court. Rutkowski faces no more than a year in jail at his Oct. 17
sentencing on the misdemeanor charge. The second defendant, Kai Christensen, 21,
has yet to enter a plea and has an Oct. 3 court date.

One trap was rigged to send a 20-pound, spiked boulder swinging at head level.
The other was designed to trip a passer-by into a bed of sharpened wooden
stakes.

BP says Isaac exposed oil from 2010 spill - BP says Hurricane Isaac's scouring
waves exposed deposits of buried tar on the Louisiana coast that were left over
from its massive oil spill in 2010. Louisiana officials closed a stretch of
beach near Fourchon on Tuesday after scouts said they found large tar mats. BP
acknowledged Wednesday that the oil was from its spill.

Ray Melick, a BP PLC spokesman, said in an email that "as this area has
undergone severe coastal erosion by Hurricane Isaac, much of the oil has now
been exposed."

Sex researcher's son accused of exposing himself - The son of sex research
pioneer Dr. William H. Masters has been charged with exposing himself to a
sheriff's deputy and another woman who were posing as recreational kayakers as
part of a sting operation on a Michigan river. Huron County Sheriff Kelly Hanson
says a completely nude William H. Masters III yelled for the women's attention
Saturday, then made obscene gestures.

Hansen says deputies requested backup from a Michigan conservation officer who
nabbed Masters, 60, a Southampton, N.Y., resident who owns property nearby.

He is charged with aggravated indecent exposure, punishable by up to two years
in jail. Masters was arrested in New York's Central Park in May after an officer
reported seeing him masturbating.

- Read more national news at stltoday.com/nation.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Digest

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Model failure Our view o Anti-immigrant legislation gets sidetracked in Arizona.
OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: 0


Some political candidates campaigned last fall with a promise to "Take Back Our
Country" and urged states to follow Arizona's lead in enacting state immigration
laws that would fill the void left by a neglectful federal government.

The fervor grew intense as they whipped up a lather of fear. Arizona Gov. Jan
Brewer talked about headless bodies being dumped near the border with Mexico
(which she later retracted), and Sen. John McCain, once a leading voice for
national immigration reform, flopped and ran TV ads of his furrowed brow near
the border walls.

The claim was that America was under siege, and emboldened states were bound to
do something about it. That was less than a year ago.

Since then, the immigration bloom has dried out in the desert because of federal
court rulings, political fatigue, a choppy economy and more urgent needs in a
shrinking pool of government funds.

The fever in Arizona, a political hothouse for anti-immigrant sentiments, has
chilled.

- On Monday, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld a ruling by
U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton that blocked key provisions of Arizona Senate
Bill 1070, which included measures for police to question people "of reasonable
suspicion" about their immigration status. The U.S. Justice Department
challenged the law in court, calling it an unconstitutional intrusion into the
federal province of immigration enforcement. The U.S. Supreme Court eventually
will resolve the matter.

- In late March, the Arizona Senate killed Senate Bills 1308 and 1309, which
would have created a second tier of birth certificates for people born in the
United States to an undocumented immigrant or legalized resident and which would
have severed 14th Amendment rights that grant automatic citizenship to people
born in the United States.

Who derailed the Arizona birthright legislation, which would have blatantly
flouted the U.S. Constitution? Senate Republicans, who were reacting to pleas
from 60 CEOS in Arizona and the Greater Phoenix Chamber of Commerce, who asked
them to tone down the anti-immigrant rhetoric because it's bad for business and
tourism.

- Maricopa County audits this week show that Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the firebrand
crusader against illegal immigration in the Phoenix area, inappropriately spent
$99 million from two county jail funds over eight years to bankroll immigration
raids and other non-jail related expenses.

So much for the anti-tax, anti-government platform in a Republican-laden state
with a devastated economy and a budget that is being shredded.

Arizona's laws and tactics were touted as a national model. Arizona-style
immigration laws were introduced into at least 20 state legislatures, including
Missouri, Illinois, Tennessee, Georgia and Oklahoma.

Now, bad state immigration laws appear to be wilting under their own political
weight. But it is a temporary lapse that will end during next year's
presidential and congressional elections.

Shelving unconstitutional state laws deflects some short-term misery, but it
does nothing to address the monumental issue of federal immigration reform,
which neither Democrats nor Republicans will dare to address before the 2012
elections.

So the plight of some of the 38 million foreign-born people in the United
States, more than two-thirds of whom have legal residence, remains in limbo as
they seek to unite their families and legally find work in tough times.

One day, U.S. employers' need for legal immigrant workers - both highly skilled
and lesser skilled - should be elevated as a vital economic necessity.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: 0


Georgia to enact immigration law

Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal said on Friday that he will sign a tough immigration
law passed late Thursday by the Legislature, joining Arizona in the fight to
determine how much control states have in curbing illegal immigration. Lawmakers
modified the Georgia bill slightly from Arizona's and softened requirements
surrounding use of the federal E-Verify program, which helps employers confirm
online whether potential employees can legally work in the United States. Both
states empowered local and state police to demand documentation of residency and
to detain people they reasonably suspect are in the country illegally.

Hydrofracking questioned - The natural gas drilling technique known as
hydrofracking drives global warming as much as emissions from coal - or even
more, according to a study from Cornell University. The peer-reviewed study, to
be published this week in the journal Climatic Change, found that hydrofracking,
which relies on a high-pressure mix of chemicals, water and sand to free gas
trapped in deep underground rock formations, also releases into the atmosphere
large quantities of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.

Congressmen challenge Lejeune handling - Five members of Congress called the
Department of the Navy to task - again - for what they say is an apparent
resistance to keeping veterans informed about past water contamination at Camp
Lejeune in North Carolina. In a tartly worded letter to the Navy, Sen. Bill
Nelson of Florida, Sens. Kay Hagan and Richard Burr and Rep. Brad Miller of
North Carolina, and Rep. John Dingell of Michigan said the military continues to
mislead the public about the contamination. They said the Navy hasn't yet agreed
to a deal that would allow federal scientists to review its public relations
material.

Space pilots sought - The Antelope Valley Press in California says the spaceline
founded by Sir Richard Branson has put out a call for pilots to operate its
SpaceShipTwo spacecraft and WhiteKnightTwo mother ship. Those selected would fly
during development testing currently under way and commercial operations at some
point in the future.

Bacteria identified - Health officials identified legionella bacteria in a
whirlpool spa at the Playboy Mansion in Los Angeles during an investigation in
February that began when people were sickened after attending a fundraiser. A
number of people came down with a respiratory illness after DomainFest's Feb.
1-3 conference, which culminated in a fundraiser at the Playboy Mansion in the
Holmby Hills area of Los Angeles. Officials investigated to see if legionellosis
was at fault; the more severe version of that illness is known as Legionnaires'
disease, while a milder version is called Pontiac fever. Out of 439 people
contacted by Los Angeles County public health officials, 123 fell sick with
fever and at least one other symptom, such as headache, cough, shortness of
breath, or aches. Sixty-nine people got sick on the same day, Feb. 5.

Wrong place, wrong time - Manuel Albert Soares was pulled over for driving in a
carpool lane of the New Jersey Turnpike with fewer than the requisite three
passengers. A routine license check uncovered that the man had fled from
Portugal after being convicted in 2008 of trying to hire hit men to kill his
ex-wife. He is back in jail.

- Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 7, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Arizona immigration rule gets set to take effect after ruling Activists intend
to look for civil rights violations because Supreme Court left door open to such
arguments about the law.

BYLINE: BY JACQUES BILLEAUD AND NICHOLAS RICCARDI o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - More than two years after it was signed into law, the most contentious
part of Arizona's landmark immigration legislation is expected to take effect
following a federal court ruling issued late Wednesday.

But the U.S. Supreme Court laid a legal minefield that Arizona now must navigate
when the critical provision takes effect. The clause, one of the few significant
ones that the high court left standing in a June ruling, requires all Arizona
police officers to check the immigration status of people they stop while
enforcing other laws and suspect are in the country illegally.

While preserving that requirement, however, the Supreme Court explicitly left
the door open to arguments that the law leads to civil rights violations.
Attorneys would need actual victims to make that case.

Civil rights activists are preparing to scour the state for such victims. Lydia
Guzman, who runs Respect/Respeto, a Phoenix group that tracks racial profiling,
said volunteers at the organization's call center have already been told to
listen for new complaints when the requirement goes into effect.

"We're watching and we're looking for cases," she said.

Barring a successful, emergency challenge of Wednesday's ruling to an appeals
court - an outcome that legal observers believe is unlikely - the requirement is
expected to go into effect in the next several days. U.S. District Judge Susan
Bolton rejected arguments by civil rights attorneys that she should prevent the
requirement from kicking in, noting that the Supreme Court had specifically
found that the provision should be allowed to become law.

Arizona police were formally trained on how to implement the law shortly after
Gov. Jan Brewer signed it in 2010.

The heads of some of the state's biggest law enforcement agencies - the Phoenix
and Tucson police departments and the Pima County sheriff's office - were
critical of it but ultimately said they would obey whatever parts the courts
found to be constitutional.

"We enforce laws passed by our legislators," Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a Phoenix
police spokesman, said Wednesday night, noting the requirement still has not
gone into effect.

Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who has been the most publicly aggressive in
pursuing illegal immigrants, said in an interview Wednesday that his deputies
already check the immigration status of people they encounter.

Arpaio, a supporter of the law, said he expects no differences other than an
increased number of lawsuits.

The law's author, former state Sen. Russell Pearce, said he does not expect
sweeping changes in the way local police conduct themselves once the requirement
kicks in.

"I'm not asking for roundups, I'm not asking for anything but paying attention
and doing your job," he said. "It's not that we want people in jail. We want
compliance."

Peter Spiro, a Temple University law professor who has followed the two-year
legal battle, said Arizona remains in a difficult legal spot.

"If the state's savvy at all, it's going to be very cautious" about how it
implements the requirement, he said. "To the extent that it's not, it's going to
be very vulnerable on this.

"Further litigation is imminent."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Alabama law on illegals blocked Judge will review proposed immigration
crackdown, decide whether it's constitutional.

BYLINE: By JAY REEVES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: 0


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - A federal judge temporarily blocked enforcement of Alabama's
new law cracking down on illegal immigration, ruling Monday that she needed more
time to decide whether the law - opposed by the administration of President
Barack Obama, church leaders and immigrant rights groups - is constitutional.

The brief order by U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn means the law, which
opponents and supporters alike have called the toughest in the nation, won't
take effect as scheduled on Thursday. The ruling was cheered both by Republican
leaders who were pleased the judge didn't gut the law, and by opponents who
compare it to old Jim Crow-era statutes against racial integration.

Blackburn didn't address whether the law is constitutional, and she could still
let all or parts of the law take effect later. Instead, she said she needed more
time to consider lawsuits filed by the Justice Department, private groups and
individuals that claim the state is overstepping its bounds.

The judge said she would issue a longer ruling by Sept. 28, and her temporary
order will remain in effect until the day after. She heard arguments from the
Justice Department and others during a daylong hearing last week.

Similar laws have been passed in Arizona, Utah, Indiana and Georgia. Federal
judges already have blocked all or parts of the laws in those states.

Among other things, the law would require schools to verify the citizenship
status of students, but it wouldn't prevent illegal immigrants from attending
public schools.

The law also would make it a crime to knowingly assist an illegal immigrant by
providing him or her with a ride, a job, a place to live or almost anything else
- a section that church leaders fear would hamper public assistance ministries.
It also would allow police to jail suspected illegal immigrants during traffic
stops.

Finding a way to curtail public spending that benefits illegal immigrants has
been a pet project of Alabama conservatives for years. Census figures released
earlier this year show the state's Hispanic population more than doubled over a
decade to 185,602 last year, and supporters of the law contend many of them are
in the country illegally.

Isabel Rubio, executive director of the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama,
which is among the groups that sued over the law, hopes Blackburn will block it
entirely but was happy with the temporary reprieve.

"We are pleased that Judge Blackburn is taking more time to study the case," she
said.

Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, said he would continue to defend the law, and
GOP leaders in the Alabama House and Senate praised Blackburn - a Republican
appointee - for taking time to fully consider the law.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration dogs GOP candidates But voters care more about economic issues,
polls show.

BYLINE: By THOMAS BEAUMONT and STEVE PEOPLES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: 0


AMHERST, N.H. - The Republican presidential contenders are tying themselves in
knots over immigration.

Newt Gingrich is endorsing a South Carolina law that allows police to demand a
person's immigration status - a week after taking heat for advocating a "humane"
approach.

Rick Perry, though defending Texas' in-state tuition for some illegal
immigrants' children, spent Tuesday campaigning with a hard-line Arizona sheriff
in New Hampshire.

And Mitt Romney is talking tough on immigration in his second White House
campaign, though he previously supported the idea of allowing some illegal
immigrants to stay in the U.S.

Meanwhile, many voters say immigration won't determine which candidate they'll
back for the GOP nomination. Instead, they say they're focused squarely on the
economy and jobs.

"In light of the economy, questions about immigration policy are less
egregious," said Loras Schulte, an evangelical conservative from northeast Iowa.

So what gives?

The contortions by the Republican candidates illustrate the straddle they're
attempting on a complex issue. To win the Republican nomination, they must court
a GOP electorate that is largely against anything that could be called "amnesty"
for illegal immigrants.

But they can't come off as anti-immigrant, a stance that could alienate the
independents and moderates - not to mention Hispanics - they'd need to attract
in a general election should they win the party's nod to challenge President
Barack Obama.

This year, many Republican voters are focused on an unemployment rate that's
been stuck at about 9 percent nationally and is even higher in some states. A
poll by the Des Moines Register taken last month showed economic and financial
concerns topping immigration.

But immigration as an important issue has hardly gone away. Gingrich is the
latest to wrestle with it.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Vermont bucks trend on immigration policy

BYLINE: LISA RATHKE o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: 0


MONTPELIER, Vt. - The two Mexican farmworkers were nervous. Seated in a pickup
whose driver had been stopped for speeding on a Vermont highway, they didn't
know what to expect from the state trooper.

They'd heard of other farmworkers being detained or deported in the largely
white state, whose $560 million dairy industry relies on Mexican farmhands such
as them. But one of the men also had been in a similar stop in New York and
didn't get bothered.

They had no idea their detention by police and Border Patrol would prompt a
protest by activists at the State Police barracks, or the outpouring of support
they've gotten with people offering them housing and help. The stop would lead
Vermont Gov. Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, to change the State Police policy on
dealing with suspected illegal immigrants, making it one of the most restrictive
on police in the nation, according to one policy expert who supports tougher
immigration laws.

The combination of more illegal immigrants moving beyond the border states to
follow jobs and a lack of federal immigration reform has some states and
communities coming up with their own enforcement policies - written or not.

They range from crackdowns to a hands-off approach where police are prohibited
from asking about immigration status.

"Almost every community is like a border state because illegal immigrants are so
much more mobile than they used to be. They go where the jobs are. They spread
out across the country," said Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies for
the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for tougher
immigration laws.

Under policy revisions made since the arrest, the Vermont State Police will not
ask an individual about his or her immigration status when investigating a civil
violation - mainly a traffic stop - but can ask about it in investigations of
criminal offenses or suspicious activity in certain cases.

Troopers cannot launch a criminal investigation only because they suspect a
person is in the country illegally. On the other hand, if troopers were looking
into a case of human trafficking in which immigration is relevant, they could
ask about immigration status, a police spokeswoman said.

The Massachusetts State Police have a similar policy, while Arizona and Alabama
are taking immigration enforcement into their own hands, with new laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Couple win right to adopt 5-year-old Illegal immigrant abandoned boy, judge
rules in case that drew international scrutiny.

BYLINE: BY NANCY CAMBRIA Nancy.Cambria@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8238 The
Associated Press and Marlon A. Walker of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this
report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: 0


A Greene County juvenile court ruled Wednesday in favor of a Missouri couple
seeking to adopt the child of a Guatemalan woman who had been arrested and
detained for working in the country illegally.

The decision culminates a lengthy international custody dispute over the child
that put American immigration policies under scrutiny and drew outrage from a
Guatemalan diplomat and others fighting for immigrant rights.

Judge David Jones ruled in a closed Springfield, Mo., courtroom that the
5-year-old boy's birth mother, Encarnacion Bail Romero, had abandoned the child.
The ruling terminated the birth mother's parental rights and paved the way for
Seth and Melinda Moser of Carthage, Mo., to formally adopt the child.

The couple have raised the boy since he was an infant. The boy, Carlos Jamison
Moser, who goes by the name Jamison, just completed preschool, said the family's
attorney, Joe Hensley.

"The Mosers are very happy," Hensley said. "This is something that's been
hanging over their heads for years. They're ready to close that chapter of their
lives and move on."

Romero, who has been allowed to remain in the country awaiting the outcome of
the dispute, was present in the courtroom. Neither she nor her attorney could be
reached for comment.

Those working for immigration rights who had watched the case closely said they
were disappointed.

"Cases like these are the byproducts of fundamental gaps in the immigration and
child welfare systems that make it all but impossible for parents in immigration
detention to participate in proceedings affecting custody of their children,"
said Emily Butera of the Women's Refugee Commission's detention and asylum
program.

The case garnered international attention in 2008 after Romero challenged the
Mosers' adoption of the child. At the time of the adoption, Romero was in
detention awaiting potential deportation to Guatemala after being arrested in
May 2007 during a raid on illegal workers at a poultry plant in Barry County.

While Romero was in custody, her child, an infant at the time, was passed around
among family members before eventually being adopted privately by the Mosers.
That adoption was overturned in the appellate court.

The decision Wednesday follows the January 2011 Missouri Supreme Court ruling
that sent the case back to the circuit courts after finding that the mother's
rights had not been upheld in a Jasper County court.

During that Supreme Court hearing, the Mosers argued that even if their adoption
wasn't proper - which was key to Romero's case - it wouldn't be in the best
interest of the child to take him away from the parents he knows now and send
him to another country.

The boy, who is a citizen of both the U.S. and Guatemala, speaks only English.

Attorneys for Romero, who does not speak English, said she was not given proper
legal counsel or proper communication with the court, nor did she fully
understand her rights and the proceedings of the juvenile courts and the
adoption process.

They further argued that she served two years in prison away from her child for
violating a law that was determined unconstitutional by the Supreme Court
shortly after she was incarcerated.

At the time of the Supreme Court arguments, the situation drew criticism from
Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States Francisco Villagran de Leon, who said
children of undocumented immigrants should not be given up for adoption just
because they are here illegally.

Although justices on the Supreme Court unanimously agreed that Romero's legal
rights as a parent were unfairly terminated when the Jasper County court failed
to take proper legal steps, the court split 4-3 on how to resolve who should get
custody of the boy and when. The majority ordered the case back to the lower
courts.

One justice cast the case in biblical terms, referencing the story of Solomon
who was called upon to resolve a child custody dispute.

"At least Solomon had the option to decree that the child be cut in half, "
Justice Michael Wolff wrote in a separate opinion. "All we lesser judges have is
the law, and it is our duty to make sure that the law is obeyed."

Romero's attorney, Curtis Woods, said that his client was "very upset" and that
he planned to appeal Wednesday's ruling..

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Missouri News Horizon Melinda and Seth Moser of Carthage,
Mo., will be allowed to formally adopt their son, born to an illegal immigrant
from Guatemala, after a judge ruled Wednesday that his birth mother had
abandoned him. The case put U.S. immigration policies under scrutiny and stirred
outrage.  Photo - Romero

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday
                                 ONLINE EDITION

New laws address gays, children, immigration

BYLINE: By ANDREW WELSH-HUGGINS Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 635 words


Measures on gay rights and child safety are among the top state laws taking
effect at the start of 2013, along with attempts to prevent identity theft and
perennial efforts to restrict abortion and illegal immigration.

In many states, new laws take effect on Jan. 1, while in others they do so 90
days after a governor's signature.

Voter-approved laws allowing same-sex couples to marry take effect in Maryland
in January and in Maine on Saturday. California also approved a law exempting
clergy members opposed to gay marriage from performing same-sex marriage
ceremonies.

In California, a first-of-its-kind law bans a form of psychotherapy aimed at
making gay teenagers straight but is on hold during a court challenge. The law
would ban what is known as reparative or conversion therapy for minors; such
therapies are widely discredited by medical professionals.

A number of laws seek to protect children from bullying and abuse. Pennsylvania
school employees in contact with children, who already must report suspected
abuse, must now be trained to recognize the warning signs, their legal
obligations and what are considered appropriate relationships with children.

That law was being debated and voted on in June as a jury was finding former
Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky guilty of 45 counts for
sexually abusing 10 boys over 15 years.

California coaches and administrators in K-12 schools, as well as higher
education employees who have regular contact with children, will be required to
report suspected child sexual abuse. Oregon will require schools to adopt a
policy on teen dating violence, a law that follows state legislation earlier
this year requiring school employees to report acts of bullying, harassment and
online bullying.

In Florida, the Safe Harbor Act includes provisions that require police to turn
over to the Department of Children and Families any children who are alleged to
be sexually exploited or dependent for assessment and possible shelter.

States continue to wrestle with illegal immigration. Pennsylvania will include a
requirement that contractors on public works projects make sure through the
federal E-Verify system that their employees are legal U.S. residents, while a
Montana ballot measure taking effect denies illegal immigrants access to state
services.

Also in Montana, voters overwhelmingly passed a measure requiring parental
notification for minors' abortions, while in Georgia a new law will prohibit
doctors from performing an abortion 20 weeks after an egg is fertilized unless a
pregnancy is determined to be medically futile, meaning it would result in the
birth of a child unlikely to survive because of a serious defect. Georgia became
the seventh state in the country to approve the so-called fetal pain act.

New Hampshire enacts a ban on a type of late-term abortion procedure sometimes
called "partial birth abortion" after lawmakers overrode the veto of Gov. John
Lynch, who said the measure was unnecessary because federal law already
prohibits such procedures. Supporters of the ban say they don't trust the
government to prosecute the law.

Among other new laws:

o Alabama begins cracking down on the state's 900,000 uninsured drivers with a
new system that allows instant checks by police, license plate offices and the
state Revenue Department.

o A pair of laws in Georgia and Pennsylvania address the shortfalls faced by
some states from the cost of unemployment benefits by raising employers'
contributions to unemployment compensation trust funds.

o In Florida, it will no longer be illegal to flash your headlights to warn
oncoming drivers that police are lurking on the roadside ahead. The legislation
was introduced after drivers were ticketed for warning other motorists that
officers may be trying to catch speeders on the highway.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. agent fatally shot near Mexican border

BYLINE: Associated PRess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: 0


NOGALES, Ariz. - A Border Patrol agent was fatally shot near the Mexican border
amid a shootout with bandits known for targeting illegal immigrants along a
violent smuggling corridor in the Arizona desert, a union leader said Wednesday.

Agent Brian Terry, 40, was waiting with three other agents in a remote area
north of Nogales late Tuesday when a gunbattle with the bandits began, said
National Border Patrol Council President T.J. Bonner.

No other agents were injured, but one of the suspects was wounded in the
shootout. The Border Patrol declined to reveal the country of origin of the
suspects.

The FBI is investigating the shooting. Border Patrol spokesman Eric Cantu and
FBI spokeswoman Brenda Lee Nath declined to confirm Bonner's account but said
authorities have four suspects in custody and are searching for a fifth.

The shooting followed months of heated political rhetoric on the immigration
issue in Arizona as lawmakers passed a sweeping crackdown on illegal immigrants.
Politicians pushing for immigration reform cite violence like the Border Patrol
shooting as proof that the state and federal governments need to better secure
the border.

Terry was part of an elite squad similar to a police SWAT team.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration tenor changes with House turnover Republicans taking tougher stance
still need to curry favor with Latino voters. WASHINGTON

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - The end of the year means a turnover of House control from
Democratic to Republican and, with it, Congress' approach to immigration.

In a matter of weeks, Congress will go from trying to help young illegal
immigrants become legal to debating whether children born to parents who are in
the country illegally should continue to enjoy automatic U.S. citizenship.

Such a hardened approach - and the rhetoric certain to accompany it - should
resonate with the GOP faithful who helped swing the House in Republicans' favor.
But it also could further hurt the GOP in its endeavor to grab a large enough
share of the Latino vote to win the White House and Senate majority in 2012.

Legislation to test interpretations of the 14th Amendment as granting
citizenship to children of illegal immigrants will emerge early next session.
That is likely to be followed by attempts to force employers to use a
still-developing Web system, dubbed E-Verify, to check that all of their
employees are in the U.S. legally.

There could be proposed curbs on federal spending in cities that don't do enough
to identify people who are in the country illegally and attempts to reduce the
numbers of legal immigrants. Democrats ended the year failing for a second time
to win passage of the Dream Act, which would have given hundreds of thousands of
young illegal immigrants a chance at legal status.

House Republicans will try to fill the immigration reform vacuum left by
Democrats with legislation designed to send illegal immigrants packing and deter
others from trying to come to the U.S.

Democrats, who will still control the Senate, will be playing defense against
harsh immigration enforcement measures, mindful of their need to keep on good
footing with Hispanic voters. But a slimmer majority and an eye on 2012 may
prevent Senate Democrats from bringing to the floor any sweeping immigration
bill or even a limited one that hints at providing legal status to people in the
country illegally.

President Barack Obama could be a wild card.

He'll have at his disposal his veto power should a bill denying citizenship to
children of illegal immigrants make it to his desk. But Obama also has made
cracking down on employers a key part of his administration's immigration
enforcement tactics.

Hispanic voters and their allies will look for Obama to broker a deal on
immigration as he did on tax cuts and health care. After the Dream Act failed in
the Senate this month, Obama said his administration would not give up on the
measure.

The president has taken heavy hits in ethnic media for failing to keep his
promise to address immigration promptly and taking it off the agenda last
summer. His administration's continued deportations of immigrants - a record
393,000 in the 2010 fiscal year - have also made tenuous his relationship with
Hispanic voters.

John Morton, who oversees Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a recent
conference call that there are no plans to change the agency's enforcement
tactics, which are focused on immigrants who commit crimes but also have led to
detaining and deporting many immigrants who have not committed crimes.

The agency also will continue to expand Secure Communities, the program that
allows immigration officials to check fingerprints of all people booked into
jail to see if they are in the country illegally. Both illegal immigrants and
residents can be deported under the program, which the Homeland Security
Department hopes to expand nationwide by 2013.

Many of those attending a recent gathering of conservative Hispanics in
Washington warned that another round of tough laws surrounded by ugly
anti-immigrant discussions could doom the GOP's 2012 chances.

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a potential 2012 candidate, cited Meg
Whitman's failed gubernatorial bid in California despite her high spending. When
22 percent of the electorate is Latino, candidates can't win without a vigorous
presence in the Hispanic community and a "message that is understandable and
involves respect," Gingrich said. Even so, Gingrich was unwilling to call on his
fellow Republican senators to drop their opposition to the Dream Act, saying the
legislation should not have been considered without giving lawmakers a chance to
amend it.

The next Congress will be populated with many newcomers elected on a platform of
tougher immigration enforcement. They'll have ready ears in Republican Rep.
Lamar Smith of Texas, who will chair the House Judiciary Committee, and Rep.
Steve King of Iowa, who is expected to chair the committee's immigration
subcommittee.

That's a recipe for more measures aimed at immigration enforcement. Changes to
immigration law contained in appropriations and authorization bills, where
immigration enforcement hawks are likely to tuck some measures, would also be
tough to reject.

But more controversial measures such as attempts to deny citizenship to children
of people who are in the U.S. without permission could be tempered by GOP
leaders aware of the need to curry more favor with Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Effort targets kids of illegals Conservative state lawmakers aim to cancel
citizenship.

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Conservative lawmakers from five state legislatures launched a
joint campaign Wednesday afternoon to try to cancel automatic U.S. citizenship
for the American-born children of illegal immigrants.

It is part of the conservative Republicans' promised attack on "anchor babies"
that included U.S. Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, marking his first day Wednesday
night as chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration by
introducing a bill to eliminate birthright citizenship for children of illegal
immigrants. "This isn't what our Founding Fathers intended," he told
politico.com.

The state legislators used a news conference in Washington to unveil two model
measures they said would be introduced in at least 14 states. One was a bill
clarifying the terms of citizenship in those states to exclude babies born in
the United States of illegal immigrant parents. The second was a compact among
states to adopt common positions on the issue.

The lawmakers acknowledged that the state bills were not likely to have a
practical impact anytime soon because they would be quickly challenged as
unconstitutional. But the legislators - from Arizona, Georgia, Oklahoma,
Pennsylvania and South Carolina - said they chose the inaugural day of a new,
Republican-controlled House of Representatives to open the first round of
litigation they hope will lead to the Supreme Court and also spur action by
lawmakers in Washington.

"We are here to send a very public message to Congress," said Daryl Metcalfe, a
Republican state representative from Pennsylvania. "We want to bring an end to
the illegal alien invasion that is having such a negative impact on our states."

The state lawmakers' initiative put the highly emotional issue of birthright
citizenship, which had long been marginal in the immigration debate, at the
front of the Republicans' immigration agenda as the new Congress gets under way.
A study released in August by the Pew Hispanic Center found that about 340,000
children were born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008 and became
instant citizens.

The right to U.S. citizenship for everyone born on American soil is described in
the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. The state legislators argued that
certain phrases in the amendment signal that it was not intended to apply to
children of immigrants who do not have lawful status.

Opponents of changing the status quo argue that determining American citizenship
is clearly a federal matter in which states have no legal role.

Because the federal government decides who is to be deemed a citizen, the state
lawmakers are considering instead a move to create two kinds of birth
certificates in their states, one for the children of citizens and another for
the children of illegal immigrants. The theory is that this could spark a flurry
of lawsuits that might resolve the legal conflict in their favor.

Most scholars of the Constitution consider the states' effort to restrict birth
certificates patently unconstitutional.

"This is political theater, not a serious effort to create a legal test," said
Gabriel J. Chin, a law professor at the University of Arizona whose grandfather
immigrated to the United States from China at a time when ethnic Chinese were
excluded from the country. He called the effort "unconstitutional."

But conservatives contend that the issue is unsettled. Kris Kobach, the incoming
secretary of state in Kansas and a law professor at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City who has helped draft many of the tough immigration
regulations across the country, argued that the approach the states were
planning would hold up to scrutiny.

"I can't really say much more without showing my hand," Kobach said. "But, yes,
I am confident that the law will stand up in court."

The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, was a repudiation of the Supreme Court's
1857 ruling, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, that people of African descent could
never be American citizens. The amendment said citizenship applied to "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof."

In 1898, the Supreme Court, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, interpreted the
citizenship provision as applying to a child born in the United States to a
Chinese immigrant couple.

In April, U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., one of those pushing for
congressional action on the issue, stirred controversy when he suggested that
children born in the United States to illegal immigrants should be deported with
their parents until the birthright citizenship policy was changed.

"And we're not being mean," Hunter told a Tea Party rally in Southern
California. "We're just saying it takes more than walking across the border to
become an American citizen."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: 0


Illegal immigrant numbers unchanged

After two years of declines, the number of illegal immigrants living in the
United States was virtually unchanged last year, according to a report released
Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center.

The annual report, relied upon by both sides in the contentious immigration
debate, found 11.2 million illegal immigrants living in the U.S., statistically
identical to the 11.1 million estimated in 2009. The number peaked in 2007 at 12
million and dropped steadily as the economy collapsed.

Northern border unwatched - Americans face a high risk of terrorist activity
along the U.S.-Canadian border, where less than 1 percent of the 4,000-mile
stretch is adequately protected, according to a government report released
Tuesday.

The GAO report says Customs and Border Protection believes it can detect illegal
entries, respond and deal with them on only about 32 miles of the northern
border. It says the Border Patrol was aware of all illegal border crossings on
only 25 percent of the border, or 1,007 out of 4,000 miles.

More-modest body scan tested - The Transportation Security Administration has
tested a new, more modest body scanning system at McCarran International Airport
in Las Vegas. The TSA is trying to determine whether it can improve privacy
protections and maintain the same security levels.

Energy corridor rejected - A federal court rebuffed on Tuesday the U.S.
Department of Energy's attempt to establish national energy corridors for new
high-voltage electric transmission lines that would cover 100 million acres in
10 states, including state and national parks in the Mojave Desert.

The three-judge panel from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 2 to 1
that the energy agency failed to adequately consult affected states or conduct
federally mandated environmental reviews.

'Worst-case housing' increases - Rising rents and high unemployment caused more
than 7 million U.S. households to either live in substandard dwellings or pay
more than half of their monthly income for rent in 2009, according to a new
federal report. These low-income households with "worst-case housing needs"
increased 20 percent from 2007.

'Jihad Jane' pleads guilty - A woman from Pennsylvania who called herself "Jihad
Jane" online pleaded guilty to her role in a plot to kill a Swedish cartoonist
who had offended Muslims. Colleen LaRose, 47, helped foreign terrorism suspects
intent on starting a holy war in Europe and South Asia, prosecutors said.

Shrimping reopening in gulf - A 4,200-square-mile area of the Gulf of Mexico
near BP's blown-out well will reopen to deep-water shrimping after federal
scientists found the fishing grounds free of oil. The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration says it will reopen the area in federal waters off
Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama today.

Bush daughter backs gay marriage - Former President George W. Bush's daughter
Barbara has announced her support for gay marriage, breaking with her father on
a key social issue but joining her mother and other prominent Republicans who
back same-sex unions.

The Human Rights Campaign, a national gay rights organization, released a video
Tuesday featuring the 29-year old Bush, a New York resident who runs Global
Health Corps, a nonprofit public health organization.

Suspected Nazi dies - A man from Bellevue, Wash., who was facing potential
deportation and loss of his U.S. citizenship because he was allegedly a member
of a Nazi death squad in World War II has died. Peter Egner, 88, died Jan. 19 of
natural causes, officials said.

Senate race set in Montana - U.S. Rep. Denny Rehberg will announce on Saturday
his plans to run against Montana Sen. Jon Tester in 2012, setting up a match-up
between the Republican congressman and first-term Democrat that is likely to be
one of the most hotly contested Senate races of 2012, a source said. Bozeman
businessman Steve Daines will announce Thursday that he will drop out of the
Republican primary for Senate and instead run for the House seat to be vacated
by Rehberg.

Ensign faces third investigation - The Senate Ethics Committee announced that it
has named a special counsel to help determine whether to bring formal charges
against Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev., who has been accused of using his political
influence to help cover up an affair he had with the wife of a former top aide.

Ensign, who is up for re-election in 2012, has been cleared by investigators at
the Department of Justice and the Federal Election Commission.

- These stories and the latest national and international news can be found at
stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Darron Cummings o Associated Press The Rev. John Hollowell
comforts Sgt. Jo Moore as they look over memorials to Moore's son, Indianapolis
police Officer David Moore, at his funeral service Tuesday in Indianapolis.
David Moore, 29, was fatally shot on Jan. 23 during a traffic stop.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

GOP targets welfare to cut Illinois budget gap Proposals include drug tests for
recipients, kicking children of illegal immigrants off Medicaid.

BYLINE: BY HANNAH HESS hhess@post-dispatch.com > 217-782-4912

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: 0


SPRINGFIELD, ILL. - Some Illinois lawmakers believe they have found the key to
solving the state's massive budget crisis: squeezing savings from the safety net
supporting the state's 1.6 million welfare recipients.

Republican lawmakers recently proposed a new package of reforms - forcing drug
testing for welfare recipients, sending debt collectors after those improperly
receiving benefits and booting the children of illegal immigrants from the
state's Medicaid rolls - aimed at cracking down on abuse within the system.

Rep. Bill Mitchell, R-Forsyth, who has proposed three bills this session
relating to welfare reform, thinks the state's push to trim the budget and turn
the economy around could bring welfare reform to the forefront.

Speaking about his proposal to stop providing health care for undocumented
immigrant children, Mitchell said: "We're subsidizing, in effect, illegal
behaviors. Illinois puts a welcome mat out, and I, quite frankly, think that's
wrong."

But the idea of taking money from programs that provide income, medical and
nutrition assistance to Illinois' poorest residents was attacked by advocates
for the poor.

"It's hard economic times, so they are looking for a scapegoat and people to
blame," said Dan Lesser, senior attorney for the Sargent Shriver National Center
on Poverty Law. "I was a little surprised to see how many bills like this were
out there. I thought the focus this year was going to be on jobs and the
economy."

Human services spending eats up over 45 percent of the state's budget - $23.9
billion of the $52.7 billion budget, according to Kelly Kraft, a spokeswoman for
the governor's budget office. A report released in 2010 by the state's auditor
general revealed that the state spent almost $55 million providing health care
to children classified as illegal immigrants.

Rep. Chapin Rose, R-Mahomet, has proposed five bills relating to welfare reform,
all based, he said, on conversations with his constituents.

"I walked into a coffee shop in my district, and somebody says to me, 'You know
I was standing in line at the grocery store, and somebody used their LINK card
to buy Mountain Dew and cigarettes,'" Rose said, referring to the card that the
state uses to distribute food stamp money and other assistance. He has proposed
banning the use of food stamp benefits on junk food purchases.

Another bill would require LINK cardholders to have their photos printed on the
benefit cards.

Rose said people in his district frequently complain of seeing LINK cardholders
exchange their cards for cash to buy drugs.

"People who work the checkout line at Walmart call me and say, 'Thank you, we
see this every day,'" Rose said.

Drug testing for welfare benefits is another popular concept proposed in both
chambers of the Legislature by multiple senators and representatives.

"We don't want to punish people, we simply want to ensure that drug users do not
just automatically receive welfare from tax money," said Rep. Jim Sacia,
R-Freeport, who has sponsored similar legislation multiple times throughout his
eight-year career in Illinois politics.

That angle could help attract support for the measures, said Christoper Mooney,
a political scientist at the University of Illinois at Springfield. A common
attitude in politics is, "We don't like people on welfare, and we do all sorts
of things to them to make them feel guilty about being poor," he said.

Sacia is applying another approach that often makes for successful lawmaking -
following the lead of other states. The Republican is interested in working with
Missouri legislators, who recently passed measures requiring welfare recipients
to undergo drug screenings to prove eligibility for benefits.

One aspect that welfare reform supporters seem to be overlooking is the cost of
starting new programs. Paying to test welfare recipients for drugs, then sending
them to state-funded substance abuse treatment centers, as Sacia proposed, would
cost taxpayers. Photographing LINK cardholders, printing the images on new cards
and issuing them throughout the state could also have significant financial
implications.

"Literally you have to take 850,000 photos," Lesser said. "The cost of that is
staggering."

In effect, cracking down on fraud could be a costly endeavor, which is why
Mooney believes that the bills are unlikely to make it out of committee,
especially in a Democratic-controlled Legislature.

"It's partisan, and the minority is the one who wants it," he said. "Odds are,
they won't bring it to the floor."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation Digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: 0


Alabama approves toughest bill in nation on illegal immigration

Alabama has passed a sweeping bill to crack down on illegal immigrants that both
supporters and opponents call the toughest of its kind in the country, going
well beyond a law Arizona passed last year that caused a furor there.

3 shot, 1 fatally, by driver in Hawaii - Authorities in Hawaii say a 28-year-old
man shot at two cars stopped in traffic, then drove across Honolulu firing at
random and wounding three people, including one fatally, before he was taken
into custody.

Obesity drug work stopped - Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. said that U.S. regulators
are making "unprecedented" demands about safety trials for its obesity drug
candidate Contrave, and it is putting on hold further work on securing approval
in that market.

Yale killer draws 44 years - A former animal research technician was sentenced
to 44 years in prison for killing a Yale University graduate student days before
her wedding in 2009. Raymond Clark III, 26, apologized in New Haven Superior
Court for strangling Annie Le, 24, of Placerville, Calif.

Oil drilling process streamlined - Federal regulators launched a streamlined
process for vetting applications for offshore drilling permits in response to
complaints from oil and gas companies that the government's previous system was
unwieldy.

Suits against Chiquita stand - A federal judge in Miami refused to dismiss
lawsuits filed by thousands of Colombians against produce seller Chiquita Brands
International over its payments to a right-wing paramilitary group responsible
for killing and terrorizing civilians during Colombia's long civil conflict.

No slowdown evidence found - New York City's anti-corruption agency said its
five-month probe found no evidence supporting the claim that city workers
deliberately went slow while clearing a blizzard in December. City Councilman
Daniel Halloran became a national news celebrity after saying five workers told
him of the plot. But he declined to provide their names to the probers.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

S. Baptists tackle immigration issue In heated meeting this week in Arizona,
they support path to citizenship but not 'amnesty.'

BYLINE: ADELLE M. BANKS o Religion News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - Southern Baptists adopted a resolution this week that supports a path
to citizenship for undocumented immigrants but clearly states they reject
"amnesty."

After heated debate at their annual meeting in Phoenix, the Baptists approved a
statement that called for secure borders and "a just and compassionate path to
legal status, with appropriate restitutionary measures" for illegal immigrants
already in the U.S.

Some delegates said the language on "legal status" was tantamount to amnesty,
prompting an almost equally divided vote over whether to remove it. In response,
officials added language that said: "This resolution is not to be construed as
support for amnesty for any undocumented immigrant."

After Tuesday's election that put an African-American pastor in the
denomination's No. 2 leadership position, and plans to increase ethnic
diversity, the resolution emphasized the church should minister regardless of a
person's immigration status or country of origin.

"The intention ... is to point us all toward thinking about those who have come
into the United States from other nations," said Paul Jimenez, a South Carolina
pastor and chairman of the resolutions committee.

"To ask the question first, not 'What is your legal status?', but 'What is your
gospel status?"'

In a separate and unexpected vote, delegates expressed "profound disappointment"
with the 2011 translation of the popular New International Version of the Bible,
saying its use of gender-neutral language has made it an "inaccurate translation
of God's inspired Scripture."

The meeting was attended by 4,814 registrants, the lowest number since 1944.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 26, 2011 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Rallying cry: 'Undocumented, unafraid' Many illegal immigrant high school youths
are publicly announcing their status as they seek reform. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BY KATE BRUMBACK o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: 0


ATLANTA - Eighteen-year-old Dulce Guerrero kept quiet about being an illegal
immigrant until earlier this year, when she became upset after a traffic stop
that landed her mother in jail for two nights. The arrest came as Georgia
lawmakers were crafting what would become one of the nation's toughest
immigration crackdowns, and Guerrero feared her mother would be deported.

"I feel like that was my breaking point, when my mom was in jail," said
Guerrero, who came to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 2. "I felt like, well,
that's it, it can't get any worse than this."

Guerrero first publicly announced her immigration status at a protest in March,
and now she's organizing a rally under the tutelage of more experienced
activists who are themselves only a few years older. The high-stakes movement of
young illegal immigrants declaring that they're "undocumented and unafraid" got
a boost last week when a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist revealed he's been
living in the country illegally.

Guerrero is the chief organizer of a rally set for Tuesday at the Georgia State
Capitol for high school-age illegal immigrants to tell their stories. The recent
high school graduate and others hope to draw attention to the plight of the
hundreds of thousands of young people who were brought to the U.S. illegally by
their parents.

Already around the country, efforts by young activists have ranged from rallies
and letter-writing to sit-ins and civil disobedience, drawing inspiration from
civil rights demonstrations decades ago, with the aim of forcing the federal
government to reform rules for immigrants in their situation.

In one of the most high-profile declarations yet, former Washington Post
reporter Jose Antonio Vargas used an ABC News interview and a New York Times
Magazine article to announce Wednesday that he is an illegal immigrant from the
Philippines.

"It's very exciting," said Mohammad Abdollahi, 25, a veteran protester who's
helping Guerrero. Vargas' revelation "shows that we exist in all walks of life.
Folks don't realize how American we are," he said.

Some in the community fear Vargas' admission that he used false documents to get
a drivers license and a job could invite backlash, but it illustrates the
difficult reality for illegal immigrants seeking to pursue their goals,
Abdollahi said.

Guerrero's been working to attract participants for this week's rally by telling
friends how relieved she felt after speaking out. But she never tries to push
people to reveal they're in the U.S. illegally unless they're ready and
understand the potential consequences.

She's taking advice from Abdollahi and Georgina Perez, 22, who have both helped
organize other protests and share similar backgrounds. Abdollahi was brought to
the U.S. from Iran when he was 3 and was raised in Michigan; Perez arrived with
her mother from Mexico at age 2, living first in Los Angeles and then near
Atlanta.

They offer Guerrero the perspective of activists willing to risk arrest - and
the threat of deportation - for their beliefs. Abdollahi, who's been organizing
protests since 2009, was held briefly with three others after they staged a
sit-in at Arizona Sen. John McCain's office last year. Perez was arrested after
she and six other young immigrants sat in a downtown Atlanta intersection and
blocked traffic.

Deportation proceedings were begun against Abdollahi but haven't progressed past
the initial stages, while immigration authorities took no action against Perez.

The administration of President Barack Obama hasn't promised not to deport young
people in their situation, but Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano has made it clear that they are not a priority.

Still, the threat of being forced out of the country weighs heavily on those who
announce their illegal status.

"I was super nervous," Perez said, adding: "I had to do it because in order for
students to come out, they need to see something; someone needs to set the
example."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by David Goldman  Associated Press Photo -   Dulce Guerrero of
Atlanta helps plan a rally where illegal immigrant high school students plan to
tell their stories and "come out of the shadows." She and others hope to
escalate their efforts to push for change.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Perry wants $350 million for Texas

BYLINE: BY APRIL CASTRO o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: 0


AUSTIN, TEXAS - Texas Gov. Rick Perry has asked the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security for nearly $350 million to cover the costs of detaining illegal
immigrants in state prisons and county jails.

In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Perry alleged that
the federal government hadn't been doing enough to secure the border with
Mexico, thereby allowing illegal immigrants to enter the U.S. and use
taxpayer-funded resources, including prisons and jails. It's a claim the
governor, a Republican, has made many times before.

The letter was dated Aug. 10, three days before Perry formally announced he was
running for president.

DHS spokesman Matthew Chandler said he wasn't in position to comment and said he
could not confirm that the DHS had even received the letter.

Perry has been criticized by some fellow conservatives as being too lenient on
illegal immigration issues. Unlike fellow GOP presidential hopeful Rep. Michele
Bachmann, Perry doesn't think the U.S. should build a wall along the entire
Mexican border. Perry also has supported discounted tuition for the children of
illegal immigrants at Texas universities, and he has said Arizona's
tough-on-immigration law wouldn't be right for Texas.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Perry wants $350 million for Texas

BYLINE: BY APRIL CASTRO o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: 0


AUSTIN, Texas - Texas Gov. Rick Perry has asked the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security for nearly $350 million to cover the costs of detaining illegal
immigrants in state prisons and county jails.

In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Perry alleged that
the federal government hadn't been doing enough to secure the border with
Mexico, thereby allowing illegal immigrants to enter the U.S. and use
taxpayer-funded resources, including prisons and jails. It's a claim the
governor, a Republican, has made many times before.

The letter was dated Aug. 10, three days before Perry formally announced he was
running for president.

DHS spokesman Matthew Chandler said he wasn't in position to comment and said he
could not confirm that the DHS had even received the letter.

Perry has been criticized by some fellow conservatives as being too lenient on
illegal immigration issues. Unlike fellow GOP presidential hopeful Rep. Michele
Bachmann, Perry doesn't think the U.S. should build a wall along the entire
Mexican border. Perry also has supported discounted tuition for the children of
illegal immigrants at Texas universities, and he has said Arizona's
tough-on-immigration law wouldn't be right for Texas.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Obama pushes jobs bill as benefiting Hispanics GOP candidates taking hard
stances on immigration. WASHINGTON

BYLINE: By KEN THOMAS and CRISTINA SILVA o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: 0


LAS VEGAS - A year before the 2012 presidential election, Hispanic voters are
facing a choice.

They can continue to support President Barack Obama despite being hurt
disproportionately by the economic downturn, or turn to Republicans at a time
when many GOP presidential hopefuls have taken a hard line on immigration.

Obama kicks off a three-day trip to Western states with a stop today in Las
Vegas, where he wants to rally support for his jobs agenda in Congress. Nevada
has the nation's highest unemployment rate, 13.4 percent.

Obama has said his jobs agenda would help Hispanics in the construction industry
and provide tax breaks for small businesses.

The trip comes as Republican candidates have taken a more strident tone on
immigration.

Businessman Herman Cain recently suggested electrifying a fence along the U.S.
border with Mexico to kill illegal immigrants; he later called the remark a joke
and apologized. Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann has raised the issue of "anchor
babies," or U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants; it's a term that some
people find offensive.

Texas Gov. Rick Perry has been criticized by opponents for signing a law
allowing some illegal immigrants to get in-state college tuition. Former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney said most of the jobs created under Perry's watch
went to illegal immigrants. Perry lashed into Romney during last week's GOP
debate in Las Vegas for hiring a lawn care company that employed illegal
immigrants.

Obama won 67 percent of Hispanic voters in 2008 but many of those voters have
become disillusioned during the past three years. Unemployment among Hispanics
tops 11 percent.

"I am willing to support him, but I would like him to keep his word on all the
promises he made," said Marcos Mata, 17, a Las Vegas high school senior who will
vote for the first time next year. "Not just on immigration. But I don't know if
I see any improvement. The jobs act, it's a good idea but he should have been
doing that a long time ago."

On immigration, Obama has targeted violent criminals for deportation and urged
Congress to create a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants. Recent
Gallup polling showed Obama with a 49 percent job approval rating among
Hispanics, compared with about 60 percent in the beginning of 2011.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: - Read the latest national news at stltoday.com/news/national

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: 0


U.S. changes definition of rape

President Barack Obama's administration expanded the FBI definition of rape that
has been in place for more than eight decades, for the first time counting men
and dropping the longtime requirement that victims must have physically resisted
their attackers. The expansion is important because policymakers and lawmakers
use crime statistics to allocate resources for prevention and victim assistance.

Obama changes immigration rule - President Barack Obama moved to repair
relations with a crucial voting bloc by easing rules on the politically volatile
issue of illegal immigration. The new proposal likely will affect more than
100,000 illegal residents. It would end a requirement that undocumented
immigrants with parents or spouses in the United States leave the country first
if they wish to file paperwork that would forestall deportation on the grounds
of family hardship. The existing rule often means that people seeking waivers
must separate from their families for months or in some cases years while their
applications are processed.

Cardinal apologizes - Chicago's Cardinal Francis George is apologizing for
remarks comparing an annual gay rights parade to a Ku Klux Klan rally. In a
Chicago Tribune interview, George said he is "truly sorry for the hurt my
remarks have caused." George said he has gay and lesbian family members, and his
remarks "evidently wounded a good number of people. I am sorry for the hurt."

Loughner trial put off - The mentally ill man charged in the Tucson, Ariz.,
shooting rampage that killed six people and wounded Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and
12 others isn't expected to go to trial this year as he continues to be forcibly
medicated to make him psychologically fit to stand trial. The case was put on
hold indefinitely when psychologists diagnosed suspect Jared Lee Loughner with
schizophrenia and a federal judge ruled the 23-year-old wasn't fit to stand
trial in the shooting that occurred a year ago Sunday. Loughner is being treated
at a Springfield, Mo., prison facility, where he has been forcibly medicated
with psychotropic drugs for more than five months.

3 freight trains derail - Three freight trains derailed in northwest Indiana on
Friday, leaving several mangled train cars on their sides along the tracks and
forcing nearby residents to leave their homes as smoke billowed from the
wreckage. Two of six crew members from the trains were taken to the hospital
after the accident that happened shortly after 2 p.m. in an area of rural
farmland northeast of Valparaiso, Porter County Sheriff's Sgt. Larry LaFlower
said. He said their injuries were not considered life-threatening.

No new lawyer - A federal judge in Detroit refused Friday to appoint a new
lawyer for convicted underwear bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmjutallab, who says his
standby lawyer has been ignoring him. "You are representing yourself," U.S.
District Judge Nancy Edmunds told Abdulmutallab during a hearing in U.S.
District Court in Detroit. "So, you're not even legally entitled to standby
counsel. ... I would say Mr. Chambers and his staff have done an extraordinary
job in advancing your representation in this matter - far more than what standby
counsel usually does and I see no reason to replace standby counsel."

Supreme Court to rule on use of dogs - The Supreme Court has agreed to decide
whether police can use drug-sniffing dogs to search for drugs near a house and
without a search warrant. In the past, the court has given the police permission
to use drug-sniffing dogs on the highways to check stopped cars for drugs. But
the law has often set a strict barrier against searches at homes, and on that
basis, the Florida Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional the use of dogs to sniff
out marijuana from the front of a house. But the high court announced Friday
that it will hear the appeal from Florida prosecutors and decide whether the
Constitution puts any limits on the searches conducted by sniffing dogs.

Raise proposed - An official of President Barack Obama's administration says the
White House is proposing a 0.5 percent raise for civilian federal employees in
its 2013 budget. If Congress approves the measure, it would mark the first pay
increase for federal workers since the two-year freeze Obama ordered in 2010.
Republican lawmakers have suggested extending the freeze for federal workers as
one way to pay for a full-year extension of payroll tax cuts. A short-term,
two-month extension of the tax cut is due to expire at the end of February.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Revenue office worker charged in fraud Woman, 3 others accused of helping
undocumented immigrants get drivers licenses.

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PATRICK o rpatrick@post-dispatch.com > 314-621-5154

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - An employee of a privately run Missouri drivers license office in
St. Louis County is among four people charged with helping undocumented aliens
improperly obtain licenses or state identifications, officials said Tuesday.

An indictment unsealed in federal court Friday in St. Louis does not specify how
the worker, Yvette Roberson, 59, of St. Louis County, or others benefited. She
was arrested Monday.

The others indicted are Ricardo Ortiz, 31, of Montgomery City; Jorge Fabian
Pequeda Perez, 35, of St. Peters; and Elizabeth Cervantes, 27, of St. Peters.
Ortiz is also known as Jose Ramos Jr.

Ortiz and Roberson are charged with conspiracy and production of false
identifications; Perez with conspiracy and illegal possession of 15 or more
access devices; and Cervantes with possession of false identification documents.

Roberson's lawyer, Lenny Kagan, declined to comment, saying, "It's too
premature." Lawyers for the others could not be reached.

Roberson was hired at a privately run revenue office in St. Louis County in
2007, the indictment says. From March 2010 through Jan. 31, 2012, Ortiz and
Perez allegedly provided undocumented immigrants with stolen or bogus
identification documents, and they gave them to Roberson. She then issued
drivers licenses without a test, or nondriver IDs, the indictment says.

Roberson's office location and the number of people receiving IDs were not
specified, but Perez was accused of having more than 20 Social Security numbers
belonging to others.

Roberson was fired from the Creve Coeur drivers license fee office in 2007 after
making "excessive errors," the manager, Lisa Ottenberg, said Tuesday. She said
the "final straw" was a verbal confrontation with a customer.

Roberson then moved to the Bridgeton office, Ottenberg said. No one answered
repeated calls to that office Tuesday. The president of the company that holds
its license, Mark S. Miles, referred a reporter to the Missouri Department of
Revenue.

Ted Farnen, spokesman for that agency, said Roberson was fired last week. He
said the department was "heavily involved in this investigation," but he
declined to comment on how many licenses might be involved.

Last month, a federal grand jury in Kansas City indicted 14, alleging that a
conspiracy in a fee license office in St. Joseph, Mo., provided more than 3,500
fraudulent identity papers to undocumented immigrants across the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2012 Saturday



CORRECTION: Yvette Roberson was fired from the drivers license fee office in
Creve Coeur in 2010. A story in Wednesday's editions about charges that she
illicitly helped undocumented aliens receive licenses gave the wrong year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Romney talks jobs with Latino business leaders

BYLINE: By KASIE HUNT o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: 0


TEMPE, Ariz. - Republican Mitt Romney turned his focus to the Hispanic vote
Friday as he gathered Latino business leaders to discuss the issues he talks
about with every other constituency: the economy and jobs.

Romney met with nine Phoenix-area Hispanic business and community leaders and
asked them for their views on immigration law, education and the economy -
underscoring the importance the nation's fastest-growing minority group is
playing in the general election, particularly in the swing-voting states that
are expected to be competitive right up until Election Day.

Romney, who came to the Arizona Historical Society Museum on a 100-degree
afternoon, didn't have much to say about border fences, illegal immigration or
his promise to veto the so-called DREAM Act, which would allow some illegal
immigrants a path to legal residency. He didn't say much about other issues that
dominated the vitriolic and drawn-out Republican primary.

Former University of Arizona President Manuel Pacheco asked Romney to give a
"nod" and "some signal for a glimmer of hope" to the students who could
potentially gain a change in status if Congress passes legislation helping those
who finish college to become citizens. Romney said only: "Thank you. Appreciate
it, thank you."

Other participants appealed to Romney for basic "fairness" in the immigration
system, and one mentioned a Republican alternative to the DREAM Act proposed by
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla. Romney stuck to asking questions of the participants,
not offering extended opening remarks or making statements after participants
spoke, as he often has at previous roundtable events.

Romney's refocusing comes the same week Obama has launched an advertising effort
targeting Hispanics in key swing states in an attempt to keep these
Democratic-leaning voters in his own fold.

Obama's campaign is spending about $145,000 this week on broadcast advertising
aimed at Hispanics in Florida, Colorado and Nevada, according to data from the
media tracking firm SMG Delta.

Obama's campaign accused Romney of lying to Hispanics about the president's
record. "President Obama believes we should grow our economy and create jobs
that reward hard work and responsibility, and we are seeing results," Gabriela
Domenzain, Obama's director for Hispanic press, said in a statement.

Hispanic voters overwhelmingly supported Obama in the 2008 election.

Romney was also in Arizona to address state Republican leaders. He spoke as the
presumptive nominee and rattled off the names of his primary challengers and
thanked them, saying they "fought hard and well."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Rioting erupts at private prison for illegal immigrants; guard killed

BYLINE: By HOLBROOK MOHR o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: 0


JACKSON, MISS. - As many as 300 inmates, some of them armed with makeshift
weapons such as broomsticks, rioted at a privately run prison for illegal
immigrants, beating a guard to death and injuring 19 people, a sheriff said
Monday.

More than two dozen officers were held hostage at some point during the
hours-long spate of violence Sunday, including a group of 15 who had to be
rescued by special response teams, Adams County Sheriff Chuck Mayfield said. A
gang fight set off the violence, the sheriff said. The guard was killed on the
roof of one of the prison buildings.

Sixteen prison employees were treated for various injuries and released from a
hospital. Three inmates were hurt, officials said.

The Adams County Correctional Facility holds nearly 2,500 illegal immigrants,
with most serving time for coming back to the United States after being
deported, said Emilee Beach, a prison spokeswoman. Some of the inmates also have
been convicted of other crimes.

The guard killed was identified as Catlin Carithers, who joined Corrections
Corporation of America in 2009 and was a senior correctional officer, the
Nashville, Tenn.-based company said on its website.

CCA is one of the largest private prison companies in the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants on bubble breathe sigh of relief Change in policy regarding young
illegal residents removes fear of deportation.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE o dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125 and associated
press Kevin McDermott of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1263 words

DATELINE: 0


A major shift in immigration policy by President Barack Obama's administration
offered relief Friday for some living here illegally, lessening worries they
could be deported from a country they consider their homeland.

"I can't believe it finally happened," said Olga Cenobio, 21, who graduated from
Southwestern Illinois College in Belleville last month. "It's like a small
thing, but the beginning of a big thing for me."

That big thing was Obama's announcement Friday that illegal immigrants who came
to the U.S. as children will be able to apply for work permits and avoid
deportation.

For Cenobio, it means continuing her education and applying for jobs without
fear of someone finding out she is here illegally and reporting her.

Cenobio, who lives in Freeburg, came to the U.S. from Mexico with her mother and
older brother when she was 11. Cenobio's mother wanted a better life for her
children, and Cenobio is sure she has that here.

"This is my friends, my family, my everything," Cenebio said.

The president's election-year policy change, which could affect as many as
800,000 people, brought immediate broad support from Hispanics and
pro-immigration groups but was criticized by Republican leaders who said it
circumvents the legislative process and is not a long-term fix to a complex
problem.

Obama made it clear in his White House Rose Garden announcement that the
executive order was not the permanent solution to immigration. Rather, this
immediate change, he said, will "lift the shadow of deportation from these young
people."

The policy achieves some of the goals of the long-debated DREAM Act but stops
short of the key measure: Paving the way to becoming a citizen.

"Let's be clear, this is not amnesty, this is not immunity, this is not a path
to citizenship, this is not a permanent fix," Obama said. "This is the right
thing to do."

Others here illegally see the move as a sign of hope tempered with trepidation
because it's not a law. Future administrations could reverse the policy change.

"I'm still not a citizen. I still can't vote, I still can't travel outside the
United States," said Tania Unzueta, 28, of Chicago, whose parents brought her
from Mexico at age 10. "I don't think we can underestimate the value of having a
job permit. That's a big deal. But the reality is that this is something
temporary."

St. Louis immigration attorney James Hacking III said the announcement is
Obama's attempt to make him look softer on immigration and appease Hispanic
voters whose enthusiasm for the president has dropped, in part, because of his
inability to win congressional support for a broad overhaul of immigration law.
They also are critical of the Obama administration's aggressive deportation
policy. In 2011, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported a record 396,906
people and is expected to deport about 400,000 this year.

"It really doesn't change the lives of many people," Hacking said. "When you
read all the hurdles that are in place, that really helps a minuscule number of
people. And it is only good for as long as he's in office. The next president
could revoke it."

Under the administration's plan, illegal immigrants will be immune from
deportation if they were brought to the United States before they turned 16 and
are younger than 30, have been in the country for at least five continuous
years, have no criminal history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a
GED, or served in the military. They can apply for a work permit that will be
good for two years with no limits on how many times it can be renewed. The exact
details of how the program will work, including how much immigrants will have to
pay to apply and what proof they will need, still are being worked out.

The step, to be carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, comes one
week before Obama plans to address the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials' annual conference in Orlando, Fla. Republican
presidential challenger Mitt Romney is to speak to the group on Thursday.

Republicans, including Romney, say they want tighter border security measures
before they will consider changes in immigration law. Romney opposes offering
legal status to illegal immigrants who attend college but has said he would do
so for those who serve in the armed forces.

The new Obama policy resembles an alternative to the Dream Act proposed by
Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, a potential vice presidential running
mate for Mitt Romney.

Rubio criticized Obama's move.

"Today's announcement will be welcome news for many of these kids desperate for
an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a long-term problem," Rubio said in
a statement.

Sarah Steelman, one of the Missouri Republicans hoping to replace Democratic
Sen. Claire McCaskill, said the president's action was "appalling."

"It is noteworthy that he must rely on executive power because the duly elected
representatives of the American people oppose such a move," Steelman said.

Added U.S. Rep. Todd Akin, a Republican also vying for McCaskill's job: "Now,
illegal immigrants who enter America at any time can declare that they came as
children, and because we have no way to verify their claim, they are allowed to
stay. Obama's election pandering has created a powerful incentive for people to
immigrate illegally to America."

But Democratic Party leaders were quick to praise Obama's efforts, including
Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois. He called the decision "an historic humanitarian
moment" and compared it with the decision two decades ago to give political
asylum to Cuban refugees fleeing the Communist island. "This is at least a
reflection of that moment in history." Vanessa Crawford Aragon, executive
director of Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates called the policy "a huge
immediate relief" for those who were brought here as children.

"There are all kinds of young people that have been undocumented in this country
through no action of their own and been faced with the possibility of being
returned to their country of origin where they do not know the language, or have
any family or friends," Aragon said. "This is a really big deal for thousands of
families staring down the specter of (deportation)."

Obama in his speech referred to young immigrants who are American in "every way
except on paper." That might describe Kuwait native Alaa Mukahhal, 25, of
Chicago, whose parents brought her here at age 6 from Jordan, after fleeing
Kuwait during the first Iraq War.

She was raised here and earned an architecture degree at the University of
Illinois at Champaign-Urbana.

She nonetheless has been facing deportation proceedings, which she hopes will be
ended by Obama's announcement. The prospect of never facing that danger again,
she said, is "very exciting."

The administration announcement comes ahead of an expected Supreme Court
decision on Arizona's tough 2010 immigration law that, among other things,
requires police to ask for immigration papers from anyone they stop or arrest
and suspect is in the country illegally. The Obama administration has challenged
the law.

---

"It makes no sense to expel talented young people who are for all intents and
purposes, Americans. - President Barack Obama

---

Key timing

Obama's move may appease Hispanic voters as he prepares to address Latino
leaders.

GOP response Republicans say circumventing Congress will make a long-term answer
harder to find.

Part of a DREAM Policy change partially meets "DREAM Act" goals but is not a
path to citizenship.

Potential reversal Future administrations could reverse the president's
decision.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Associated Press At the University of Texas-Pan American,
Maria Ibarra, 19, and Candido Renteria, 24, hug with joy Friday after President
Barack Obama announced he would ease enforcement of immigration laws. Both
students are originally from Mexico.  Photo by Johnny Andrews o
jandrews@post-dispatch.com  Olga Cenobio (right) visits with a family friend,
Lanie Heidenreich, on Friday in Freeburg. "I can't believe it finally happened."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigrants on bubble receive relief Change in Obama administration policy
regarding young illegal residents removes fear of deportation.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE o dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125 and associated
press Kevin McDermott of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: 0


A major shift in immigration policy by President Barack Obama's administration
offered relief Friday for some living here illegally, lessening worries they
could be deported from a country they consider their homeland.

"I can't believe it finally happened," said Olga Cenobio, 21, who graduated from
Southwestern Illinois College in Belleville last month. "It's like a small
thing, but the beginning of a big thing for me."

That big thing was Obama's announcement Friday that illegal immigrants who came
to the U.S. as children will be able to apply for work permits and avoid
deportation.

For Cenobio, it means continuing her education and applying for jobs without
fear of someone finding out she is here illegally and reporting her.

Cenobio, who lives in Freeburg, came to the U.S. from Mexico with her mother and
older brother when she was 11. Cenobio's mother wanted a better life for her
children, and Cenobio is sure she has that here.

"This is my friends, my family, my everything," Cenebio said.

The president's election-year policy change, which could affect as many as
800,000 people, brought immediate broad support from Hispanics and
pro-immigration groups but was criticized by Republican leaders who said it
circumvents the legislative process and is not a long-term fix to a complex
problem.

Obama made it clear in his White House Rose Garden announcement that the
executive order was not the permanent solution to immigration. Rather, this
immediate change, he said, will "lift the shadow of deportation from these young
people."

The policy achieves some of the goals of the long-debated DREAM Act but stops
short of the key measure: Paving the way to becoming a citizen.

"Let's be clear, this is not amnesty, this is not immunity, this is not a path
to citizenship, this is not a permanent fix," Obama said. "This is the right
thing to do."

Others here illegally see the move as a sign of hope tempered with trepidation
because it's not a law. Future administrations could reverse the policy change.

"I'm still not a citizen. I still can't vote, I still can't travel outside the
United States," said Tania Unzueta, 28, of Chicago, whose parents brought her
from Mexico at age 10. "I don't think we can underestimate the value of having a
job permit. That's a big deal. But the reality is that this is something
temporary."

St. Louis immigration attorney James Hacking III said the announcement is
Obama's attempt to make him look softer on immigration and appease Hispanic
voters whose enthusiasm for the president has dropped, in part, because of his
inability to win congressional support for a broad overhaul of immigration law.
They also are critical of the Obama administration's aggressive deportation
policy. In 2011, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported a record 396,906
people and is expected to deport about 400,000 this year.

"It really doesn't change the lives of many people," Hacking said. "When you
read all the hurdles that are in place, that really helps a minuscule number of
people. And it is only good for as long as he's in office. The next president
could revoke it."

Under the administration's plan, illegal immigrants will be immune from
deportation if they were brought to the United States before they turned 16 and
are younger than 30, have been in the country for at least five continuous
years, have no criminal history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a
GED, or served in the military. They can apply for a work permit that will be
good for two years with no limits on how many times it can be renewed. The exact
details of how the program will work, including how much immigrants will have to
pay to apply and what proof they will need, still are being worked out.

The step, to be carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, comes one
week before Obama plans to address the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials' annual conference in Orlando, Fla. Republican
presidential challenger Mitt Romney is to speak to the group on Thursday.

Republicans, including Romney, say they want tighter border security measures
before they will consider changes in immigration law. Romney opposes offering
legal status to illegal immigrants who attend college but has said he would do
so for those who serve in the armed forces.

The new Obama policy resembles an alternative to the Dream Act proposed by
Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, a potential vice presidential running
mate for Mitt Romney.

Rubio criticized Obama's move.

"Today's announcement will be welcome news for many of these kids desperate for
an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a long-term problem," Rubio said in
a statement.

Sarah Steelman, one of the Missouri Republicans hoping to replace Democratic
Sen. Claire McCaskill, said the president's action was "appalling."

"It is noteworthy that he must rely on executive power because the duly elected
representatives of the American people oppose such a move," Steelman said.

Added U.S. Rep. Todd Akin, a Republican also vying for McCaskill's job: "Now,
illegal immigrants who enter America at any time can declare that they came as
children, and because we have no way to verify their claim, they are allowed to
stay. Obama's election pandering has created a powerful incentive for people to
immigrate illegally to America."

But Democratic Party leaders were quick to praise Obama's efforts, including
Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois. He called the decision "an historic humanitarian
moment" and compared it with the decision two decades ago to give political
asylum to Cuban refugees fleeing the Communist island. "This is at least a
reflection of that moment in history." Vanessa Crawford Aragon, executive
director of Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates called the policy "a huge
immediate relief" for those who were brought here as children.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Johnny Andrews o jandrews@post-dispatch.com  Johnny Andrews o
jandrews@post-dispatch.com  Olga Cenobio (right) visits with a family friend,
Lanie Heidenreich, on Friday in Freeburg. "I can't believe it finally happened."
Cenobio, a native of Mexico, has resided in the country since she was 9 years
old.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Challenges are likely elsewhere SUPREME COURT RULINGS

BYLINE: By JAY REEVES Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: 0


BIRMINGHAM, ALA. - Monday's Supreme Court ruling overturning key provisions of
Arizona's law on illegal immigration opens the door for courts to strike down
similar measures in states that have tried to make it a crime for illegal
immigrants to live and work in the U.S.

The high court struck down Arizona's requirement that all immigrants obtain or
carry immigration registration papers; a provision making it a crime for an
illegal immigrant to seek or hold a job; and a provision allowing police to
arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.

In the majority opinion written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, the court ruled that
those provisions conflicted with federal law.

Laws passed in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Indiana and Utah were modeled
at least in part on the one passed by Arizona in 2010. Now that the Supreme
Court has weighed in on the issue, challenges to the laws in those states are
now likely to move forward.

Both supporters and detractors of the crackdowns describe Alabama's law as the
toughest in the nation. It adopted much of the Arizona law and incorporated
other provisions, including a requirement that public schools verify the
citizenship status of new students.

Also, Alabama is the only state where courts allowed a provision to take effect
that requires officers to make a "reasonable attempt" during any traffic stop or
other police encounter to determine the immigration status of a person if there
is suspicion of someone being an illegal immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Door opens for some immigrants Illegals brought to U.S. as kids relish chance to
get documents, stay.

BYLINE: BY MARLON A. WALKER mwalker@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8104 Doug Moore
of the Post-Dispatch, along with The Associated Press, contributed to this
report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: 0


Juan Carlos Hernandez came to St. Louis from Mexico with his family when he was
6. He likened the experience to moving "from the country to the big city."

It wasn't until Wednesday, however, that he had the hope of getting a drivers
license, a Social Security number and the chance to stay in the U.S.
permanently.

"This is like a small light at the end of the tunnel," he said.

Hernandez, an undocumented immigrant, plans to apply for the newly created
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The program could push off for two years
any deportation actions against undocumented immigrants brought to the United
States as children. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a branch of the
Department of Homeland Security, began taking applications Wednesday.

The administration of President Barack Obama two months ago announced the
program, which represented a major shift in immigration policy. It promised
relief for potentially hundreds of thousands of people here illegally, lessening
worries they could be deported from a country they consider their homeland. It
granted many undocumented immigrants the ability to apply for work permits and
documents such as Social Security cards.

Hernandez is filing his application with the help of local immigration attorney
Kenneth K. Schmitt, who said he has had more than 125 meetings in his office and
dozens more phone calls from people inquiring about the process.

Hernandez said he knew at a young age that his residency status was different
from his friends, but it didn't become a problem until he got old enough to
drive. He is now 18 and enrolled at St. Louis University. He proudly showed off
his student identification card on Wednesday and said he looks forward to
becoming a pediatrician.

And he looks forward to the day when undocumented residents have a chance to
become permanent legal residents.

"They're perfectly capable of being able to be productive members of society,"
he said. "But they can't."

Hernandez is one of possibly 1.7 million undocumented immigrants who could
qualify for the new program, according to figures from the Pew Hispanic Center.
Federal officials, however, have said repeatedly they don't have an estimate of
how many people will apply.

Those with a chance to get approved must be younger than 31 as of June 15, 2012;
have arrived in the country before turning 16; have lived here at least five
years; and have no felony convictions, among other requirements. Those approved
cannot be deported for two years and can apply for employment authorization. The
deferment also can be renewed.

Applicants must pay a $465 fee and provide proof of identity and eligibility,
which can include a passport, birth certificate, school transcript, medical
records or financial records. It may take several months for an application to
be reviewed.

The program has drawn its share of critics.

Obama has come under fire from Hispanic voters and others who say he has fallen
well short of promises to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

Republican lawmakers, meanwhile, have accused Obama of circumventing Congress
with the new program in an effort to boost his political standing and of
favoring illegal immigrants over unemployed U.S. citizens.

But on Wednesday, there was plenty of excitement among young undocumented
immigrants. St. Louis immigration attorney Evita Tolu said the deferment offers
more than a chance to continue living in the country.

"It'll allow them to get Social Security numbers, to be able to drive, to open a
bank account," Tolu said. "It's just so many things. We've all been waiting for
this day."

Tolu said she has been fielding calls since May, when the program began to look
like a reality.

Still, she is cautioning undocumented residents that their legal status is not a
done deal.

"We've had a lot of promises in the past with immigration reform," she said.

Another local immigration attorney, David Cox, said Wednesday he had taken fewer
calls than he expected about the program, but he attributed that partly to the
ease of the process, with many people realizing they can apply on their own.

"Most people are generally positive about the program," he said.

"None of them are thinking it's a trick, which could be easy to think since you
are giving the government all of your information."

Candy Rodriguez, of Maplewood, remembers asking her mother about getting a
drivers license as she was about to turn 16. But she but could never get a
straight answer. Instead, Rodriguez went to get one on her own but was denied
for not having proper documentation. That's when she had a conversation with her
mother about not being a documented citizen.

"I found out I couldn't do the normal things other kids were doing," said
Rodriguez, now 23. "It was depressing. I didn't even want to go to school or
anything anymore."

She remembers coming to the St. Louis area from Mexico when she was 13 and
having a hard time with the language barrier. Today, she wants to study to be a
veterinarian, though she's limited to working for her mother's cleaning business
for now.

On Wednesday, she met with Schmitt, the attorney, to prepare her application for
deferment under the new federal program.

"This means everything to me," she said. "I can't describe it any other way."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Agents sue over Obama immigration strategy Romney adviser represents plaintiffs
in lawsuit.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - An adviser to Republican Mitt Romney is representing U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement employees suing the Obama administration
over its plan to stop deporting many young illegal immigrants and grant them
work permits.

Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state, filed the lawsuit on behalf of 10
ICE employees Thursday in federal court in Dallas. The 22-page filing contends
that the Obama administration's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals plan
violates federal law and forces ICE employees to break the law by not arresting
certain illegal immigrants. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and ICE
Director John Morton are named as defendants.

"It places ICE agents in an untenable position where their political superiors
are ordering them to violate federal law," Kobach said. "If they follow federal
law, they will be disciplined by their superiors."

Kobach, who also advised Arizona lawmakers on the state's controversial
immigration bill, said he is representing the employees as a private lawyer and
not in his capacity as a Kansas state official. He wrote in the lawsuit that ICE
agents have been ordered not to arrest illegal immigrants who claim to be
eligible for the administration's new deportation policy.

The Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to a request for
comment. Napolitano has previously defended the plan.

In June, Napolitano and President Barack Obama said some illegal immigrants
could avoid deportation and be granted a work permit for up to two years. Under
the program, immigrants have to prove they arrived in the United States before
they turned 16, have been in the country for at least five years, are 30 or
younger, are in school or have graduated or have served in the military. They
cannot have a criminal record or otherwise be considered a threat to public
safety or national security.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services started accepting applications for the
program on Aug. 15. Immigrants have to pay a $465 paperwork fee for the program.

DHS officials have not said how many people might be eligible under the program,
though the Pew Hispanic Center and others have estimated that about 1.7 million
people could be covered.

An internal DHS document obtained by The Associated Press shows the government
estimated receiving about 1.04 million applications in the program's first year,
with about 890,000 being immediately eligible. The document estimated that the
program could cost between $467.7 million and $585.4 million. The department
anticipated collecting about $484.2 million in fees.

RNC TAKES HARD LINE

Drafters of the Republican National Committee platform are taking a hard line on
immigration, calling for an end to so-called sanctuary cities and in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants at public universities.

Republicans meeting in Tampa, Fla., this week have adopted a series of
amendments to the party's platform that also call for the federal government to
complete a fence along the border with Mexico and require all U.S. businesses to
use the government's E-Verify program to ensure that no illegal immigrants are
hired. Kobach proposed the amendments.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Agents sue over Obama immigration strategy Romney adviser represents plaintiffs
in lawsuit.

BYLINE: Associated press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - An adviser to Republican Mitt Romney is representing U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement employees suing the Obama administration
over its plan to stop deporting many young illegal immigrants and grant them
work permits.

Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state, filed the lawsuit on behalf of 10
ICE employees Thursday in federal court in Dallas. The 22-page filing contends
that the Obama administration's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals plan
violates federal law and forces ICE employees to break the law by not arresting
certain illegal immigrants. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and ICE
Director John Morton are named as defendants.

"It places ICE agents in an untenable position where their political superiors
are ordering them to violate federal law," Kobach said. "If they follow federal
law, they will be disciplined by their superiors."

Kobach, who also advised Arizona lawmakers on the state's controversial
immigration bill, said he is representing the employees as a private lawyer and
not in his capacity as a Kansas state official. He wrote in the lawsuit that ICE
agents have been ordered not to arrest illegal immigrants who claim to be
eligible for the administration's new deportation policy.

The Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to a request for
comment. Napolitano has previously defended the plan.

In June, Napolitano and President Barack Obama said some illegal immigrants
could avoid deportation and be granted a work permit for up to two years. Under
the program, immigrants have to prove they arrived in the United States before
they turned 16, have been in the country for at least five years, are 30 or
younger, are in school or have graduated or have served in the military. They
cannot have a criminal record or otherwise be considered a threat to public
safety or national security.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services started accepting applications for the
program on Aug. 15. Immigrants have to pay a $465 paperwork fee for the program.

DHS officials have not said how many people might be eligible under the program,
though the Pew Hispanic Center and others have estimated that about 1.7 million
people could be covered.

An internal DHS document obtained by The Associated Press shows the government
estimated receiving about 1.04 million applications in the program's first year,
with about 890,000 being immediately eligible. The document estimated that the
program could cost between $467.7 million and $585.4 million. The department
anticipated collecting about $484.2 million in fees.

RNC takes hard line

Drafters of the Republican National Committee platform are taking a hard line on
immigration, calling for an end to so-called sanctuary cities and in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants at public universities.

Republicans meeting in Tampa, Fla., this week have adopted a series of
amendments to the party's platform that also call for the federal government to
complete a fence along the border with Mexico and require all U.S. businesses to
use the government's E-Verify program to ensure that no illegal immigrants are
hired. Kobach proposed the amendments.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 19, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LAW & ORDER PUBLIC SAFETY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS > Worker at license office admits fraud - A former employee of a
drivers license fee office pleaded guilty to federal charges Tuesday and
admitted providing Missouri drivers licenses to illegal immigrants. As part of
her plea, Yvette Roberson, 59, of St. Louis, admitted providing either the
licenses or a nondriver ID to four illegal immigrants who provided false or
stolen identification documents. They weren't required to pass a test or prove
their lawful residency.

At the time, Roberson worked at a revenue office in Bridgeton. Co-defendants
Ricardo Ortiz, 31, of Pacific, and Jorge Fabian Pesqueda Perez, 35, of St.
Peters, provided the illegal aliens with the documents, and sent those aliens to
Roberson, prosecutors say. They have already pleaded guilty and await
sentencing, as has Elizabeth Cervantes, 27, of St. Peters.

ST. LOUIS > Man who shot officer gets prison term - A St. Louis man accused of
stabbing one man, shooting a police officer who responded and escaping from the
St. Louis Justice Center after his arrest was sentenced in federal court here
Tuesday to 19 years, seven months in prison. U.S. District Judge Carol Jackson
sentenced Vernon Collins, 36, on just a single charge - being a felon in
possession of a handgun on March 1, 2011, because he was caught with the pistol
belonging to the officer he shot.

But he received a longer sentence because of a variety of factors, including the
shooting and his classification as an armed career criminal thanks to multiple
convictions on burglary and stealing charges, court records show.

Prosecutors say that Officer Jacob Brictson, 30, was responding to reports of a
prowler when he arrived in the 5200 block of St. Louis Avenue at 1 a.m. to see a
52-year-old man who had been stabbed several times. The victim said that his
attacker was still inside the house, and Collins then emerged. As Brictson tried
to arrest him, they fell to the ground, Collins grabbed the officer's 9mm
Beretta and fired once, striking Brictson's gun belt and grazing his stomach.

Two other officers arrived, heard the shot and ran to Brictson. Officer Ryan
Murphy later found Collins lying on his stomach by some bushes, with Brictson's
gun in his waistband, Murphy testified Tuesday. The gun was jammed by a spent
cartridge that had not been ejected from the semiautomatic pistol.

EAST ST. LOUIS > Doctor sentenced for fraud - A St. Louis area doctor who fled
federal charges in 1999 and was caught more than 12 years later in his native
Peru, pleaded guilty Tuesday to failure to appear, health care fraud and three
counts of mail fraud.

Dr. Juan M. Rios, 65, who lived in Florissant but practiced in Collinsville and
Bethalto and fled shortly after his indictment in December 1999, admitted
defrauding insurance companies out of more than $400,000, prosecutors said.

Rios admitted billing insurance companies from 1995 to 1999 for physical therapy
that his receptionist or unqualified personnel did, falsifying patient records
to cover up his crimes. He also defrauded his personal insurance company in the
mid-1990s by falsely claiming to be injured and unable to work for more than a
few hours a month, prosecutors said.

He could face 37 to 46 months in prison under federal sentencing guidelines when
sentenced Jan. 4.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  law & order

GRAPHIC:  Photo - Collins

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The way forward

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer o letters@charleskrauthammer.com Copyright the
Washington Post

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 807 words


They lose and immediately the chorus begins. Republicans must change or die. A
rump party of white America, it must adapt to evolving demographics or forever
be the minority.

The only part of this that is even partially true regards Hispanics. They should
be a natural Republican constituency: striving immigrant community, religious,
Catholic, family-oriented and socially conservative (on abortion, for example).

The principal reason they go Democratic is the issue of illegal immigrants. In
securing the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney made the strategic error of
(unnecessarily) going to the right of Rick Perry. Romney could never
successfully tack back.

For the party in general, however, the problem is hardly structural. It requires
but a single policy change: Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty. Use the
word. Shock and awe - full legal normalization (just short of citizenship) in
return for full border enforcement.

I've always been of the "enforcement first" school, with the subsequent promise
of legalization. I still think it's the better policy. But many Hispanics fear
that there will be nothing beyond enforcement. So, promise amnesty right up
front. Secure the border with guaranteed legalization to follow on the day the
four border-state governors affirm that illegal immigration has slowed to a
trickle.

Imagine Marco Rubio advancing such a policy on the road to 2016. It would
transform the landscape. He'd win the Hispanic vote. Yes, win it. A problem
fixable with a single policy initiative is not structural. It is solvable.

The other part of the current lament is that the Republican Party consistently
trails among blacks, young people and (unmarried) women. (Republicans are plus-7
among married women.) But this is not for reasons of culture, identity or even
affinity. It is because these constituencies tend to be more politically liberal
- and Republicans are the conservative party.

The country doesn't need two liberal parties. Yes, Republicans need to weed out
candidates who talk like morons about rape. But this doesn't mean the country
needs two pro-choice parties either. In fact, more women are pro-life than are
pro-choice. The problem here for Republicans is not policy but delicacy -
speaking about culturally sensitive and philosophically complex issues with
reflection and prudence.

Additionally, warn the doomsayers, Republicans must change not just ethnically
but ideologically. Back to the center. Moderation above all!

More nonsense. Tuesday's exit polls showed that by an eight-point margin
(51-43), Americans believe that government does too much. And Republicans are
the party of smaller government. Moreover, onrushing economic exigencies -
crushing debt, unsustainable entitlements - will make the argument for smaller
government increasingly unassailable.

So, why give it up? Republicans lost the election not because they advanced a
bad argument but because they advanced a good argument not well enough. Romney
ran a solid campaign, but he is by nature a Northeastern moderate. He sincerely
adopted the new conservatism but still spoke it as a second language.

More Ford '76 than Reagan '80, Romney is a transitional figure, both
generationally and ideologically. Behind him, the party has an extraordinarily
strong bench. In Congress - Paul Ryan, Marco Rubio, Kelly Ayotte, (the incoming)
Ted Cruz and others. And the governors - Bobby Jindal, Scott Walker, Nikki
Haley, plus former governor Jeb Bush and the soon retiring Mitch Daniels. (Chris
Christie is currently in rehab.)

They were all either a little too young or just not personally prepared to run
in 2012. No longer. There may not be a Reagan among them, but this generation of
rising leaders is philosophically rooted and politically fluent in the new
constitutional conservatism.

Ignore the trimmers. There's no need for radical change. The other party thinks
it owns the demographic future - counter that in one stroke by fixing the Latino
problem. Do not, however, abandon the party's philosophical anchor. In a world
where European social democracy is imploding before our eyes, the party of
smaller, more modernized government owns the ideological future.

Romney is a good man who made the best argument he could, and nearly won. He
would have made a superb chief executive, but he (like the Clinton machine)
could not match Barack Obama in the darker arts of public persuasion.

The answer to Romney's failure is not retreat, not aping the Democrats'
patchwork pandering. It is to make the case for restrained, rationalized and
reformed government in stark contradistinction to Obama's increasingly
unsustainable big-spending, big-government paternalism.

Republicans: No whimpering. No whining. No reinvention when none is needed. Do
conservatism, but do it better. There's a whole generation of leaders ready to
do just that.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Associated Press  Sen. Marco Rubio

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 25, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Audits of businesses for illegal immigrants are rising BUSINESS

BYLINE: By MANUEL VALDES Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 400 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement reached its highest number yet of
companies audited for illegal immigrants on their payrolls this past fiscal
year.

Audits of employer I-9 forms increased from 250 in fiscal 2007 to more than
3,000 in 2012. From fiscal 2009 to 2012, the total amount of fines grew to
nearly $13 million from $1 million. The number of company managers arrested has
increased to 238, according to data provided by ICE.

"The majority of the companies we do audits on end up with no fines at all, but
again it's part of the deterrence method," said Brad Bench, special agent in
charge at ICE's Seattle office. "If companies know we're out there, looking
across the board, they're more likely to bring themselves into compliance."

While the administration has used those numbers to bolster their record on
immigration enforcement, advocates say the audits have pushed workers further
underground by causing mass layoffs and disrupted business practices.

When the ICE audit letter arrived at Belco Forest Products, management wasn't
entirely surprised. Two nearby businesses in Shelton, a small timber town on a
bay off Washington state's Puget Sound, had already been investigated.

But the 2010 inquiry became a months-long process that cost the timber company
experienced workers and money. It was fined $17,700 for technicalities on their
record keeping.

"What I don't like is the roll of the dice," said Belco's Chief Financial
Officer Tom Behrens. "Why do some companies get audited and some don't? Either
everyone gets audited or nobody does. Level the playing field."

Belco was one of 339 companies fined in fiscal 2011 and one of thousands audited
that year.

Employers are required to have their workers fill out an I-9 form that declares
them authorized to work in the country. Currently, an employer needs only to
verify that identifying documents look real.

An AP review of audits that resulted in fines in fiscal year 2011 shows that the
federal government is fining industries across the country reliant on manual
labor and that historically have hired immigrants. The data provide a glimpse
into the results of a process affecting thousands of companies and thousands of
workers nationwide.

Many employers also wonder how ICE picks the companies it probes.

"Geography is not a factor. The size of the company is not a factor. And the
industry it's in is not a factor," Bench said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: - Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: 0


France, Italy want borders closed

Facing a surge in undocumented migrants from North Africa, the leaders of France
and Italy called Tuesday for changes in the Schengen Treaty, which grants free
passage across national frontiers in most of Western Europe. The appeal, in a
joint letter to the president of the European Commission, represented a
remarkable request to change a pact that has become one of the European Union's
hallmark agreements.

Iraq admits it may need help - Iraq's prime minister said Tuesday that his
country does not need U.S. forces to protect its internal security but
acknowledged that the country still does not have the money or training to
protect its borders. Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's comments come as the
country is struggling to decide whether to ask American troops to stay past
their expected departure date on Dec. 31.

Americans due in Iranian court - Two U.S. citizens who have spent 19 months in
detention in Iran, accused of espionage and illegal entry, will appear in court
for a third time next month, according to their lawyer. Joshua Fattal and Shane
Bauer, both 28, will attend a court session on May 11.

4 killed in Pakistan - Two bombs exploded next to two buses transporting
employees of the Pakistani navy in the southern port city of Karachi, killing at
least four people, a senior naval official said. At least 56 other people were
wounded.

Al-Qaidi leader is killed - U.S.-led NATO forces in Afghanistan killed a top
al-Qaida member, Abu Hafs al-Najdi, also known as Abdul Ghani, in an airstrike
April 13 in the eastern province of Kunar, according to a statement the
International Security Assistance Force issued. Abdul Ghani was killed with
another al-Qaida leader named Waqas, who was working with him to coordinate
attacks on Afghan and coalition forces, the statement said.

Journalist is killed - In El Salvador, three suspected gang members climbed
aboard a bus and shot a television cameraman to death as he rode to work, police
said. A police report said the gunmen approached Alfredo Hurtado, 41, directly
and shot him several times Monday.

'God particle' remains elusive - The world's biggest particle physics lab played
down claims of a major discovery Tuesday, after a leaked memo hinting that the
elusive Higgs boson - or 'God particle' - may have been found ricocheted around
science websites. A spokesman for CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear
Research, said the memo wasn't intended for publication and the claims likely
wouldn't withstand closer scrutiny. If proved to exist, the Higgs particle could
explain why matter has mass, an enormous scientific breakthrough.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Reporter reveals he is illegal immigrant ENTERTAINMENT

BYLINE: By BRETT ZONGKER o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who covered the Virginia Tech
massacre for the Washington Post went public Wednesday with a secret he has been
keeping for nearly two decades: He is an illegal immigrant.

Jose Antonio Vargas, whose mother sent him from the Philippines to live with his
grandparents in California when he was 12, says he wants to push Congress to
pass a bill called the DREAM Act that would allow people like him to become
citizens if they go to college or serve in the military.

"I'm done running. I'm exhausted," Vargas wrote in a New York Times Magazine
essay posted online Wednesday. "I don't want that life anymore."

Vargas referred a request for comment from the Associated Press to his public
relations team, which did not immediately make him available Wednesday. He also
spoke to ABC News in interviews that will air today and Friday.

He says he didn't know about his citizenship status until four years after he
arrived in the U.S., when he applied for a drivers permit and handed a clerk his
green card.

"This is fake," a Department of Motor Vehicles clerk said, according to Vargas'
account. "Don't come back here again."

Vargas confronted his grandfather, who acknowledged he purchased the green card
and other fake documents.

He convinced himself that if he worked hard enough and achieved enough, he would
be rewarded with citizenship, Vargas wrote in the magazine piece.

The Post originally planned to publish Vargas' story but decided not to. A
spokesman would not say why.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration measures await court ruling on Arizona's law

BYLINE: By Meghan McCarthy o Cronkite News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 235 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - No matter how it rules, the Supreme Court's consideration of
Arizona's SB1070 immigration law has already had one effect.

The number of immigration bills and resolutions proposed in state capitals fell
sharply in the first quarter of this year, and analysts point to uncertainty
over the Supreme Court's decision as one potential reason.

"Many states are waiting on the Supreme Court ruling on the Arizona law," said
Michele Waslin, a senior policy analyst at the Immigration Policy Center. "It
determines, to some extent, what states will do and what they can and can't do."

Until then, state lawmakers appear to have been holding their fire.

A recent report by the National Conference of State Legislatures said there was
a 44 percent drop in immigration-related state proposals this year, the first
decline since the numbers began a steady climb in 2005.

Immigration experts attributed the decrease to two major factors: Worry over the
Supreme Court decision, which could come down this week, and the increasingly
controversial nature of the bills.

The conference's report said 865 bills and resolutions relating to immigrants
and refugees were introduced into 45 state legislatures and the District of
Columbia through March 31, down from 1,538 in the same period in 2011.

Arizona, for instance, introduced 57 immigration bills in the first quarter of
last year, but just 33 this year, according to NCSL.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 20, 2010 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration activists regroup after setback Young Latinos fighting for legal
status face tougher foes in next Congress.

BYLINE: By AMY TAXIN o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: 0


LOS ANGELES - Emboldened by months of phone calls to lawmakers, hunger strikes
and sit-ins, a group of college students and graduates in Los Angeles say they
plan to take their fight for immigrant rights to the states and the 2012
election after Senate Republicans blocked a key piece of legislation.

But it won't be easy.

The Senate vote Saturday to toss the proposal that would have granted young
illegal immigrants a route to legal status dealt a harsh blow to student
activists who will face an even steeper uphill battle in the next Congress.

Immigrants see rough times ahead in the next two years, with many Republicans
vowing to push for tougher immigration enforcement, but they also say Latino
voters are getting fed up with lawmakers at a time when they are accruing
greater political clout.

"This is a movement," said Nancy Meza, 23, an illegal immigrant and college
graduate. "We don't have lobbyists and paid staff. It's a movement by students."

In the hours after the vote, Meza and about 50 other student activists who had
gathered at the UCLA Downtown Labor Center said they would remind Latinos who
stood by them in the next election cycle. They will push for access to financial
aid and drivers licenses in states more friendly to immigrants, such as
California.

Few said the legislation had a chance in the next two years with Republicans
taking control of the House of Representatives and a shrinking Democratic
majority in the Senate. But they said that wouldn't derail the networks they had
set up across the country to support illegal immigrant students and help them
reveal their status.

Some at the UCLA center, including university student Leslie Perez, 22, wept as
they watched the vote on a big screen.

Minutes after it was over, many took to the streets of Los Angeles, chanting
"undocumented and unafraid."

Republicans might consider some kind of measure to help the students, but it
would probably be much narrower, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates stricter limits on immigration.

"This has a real demoralizing effect," Krikorian said of the student activists.
"There's only so long you can keep up these hunger strikes and all this
political theater they've been engaging in, especially if there's no specific
target."

Another challenge is students could wind up feeling excluded when they can't
work after graduation, despite their political activism.

"It may alienate the group we most want to incorporate," said Louis DeSipio, a
professor of political science at the University of California-Irvine.

Immigrant rights groups said they planned to turn up the pressure on President
Barack Obama's administration to slow deportations, end local police enforcement
of immigration laws and look out for the students, many of whom publicly
revealed their immigration status over the last few months.

Students also said they planned to fight for immigrant benefits locally as they
have seen anti-illegal immigration activists do to pass tougher enforcement
measures in states such as Arizona.

The legislation would have provided a route to legal status for immigrants who
were brought to the United States before age 16, have lived in the country for
five years, graduated from high school or gained an equivalency degree and who
joined the military or attend college.

It targeted the most sympathetic of the 10 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants living in the United States - those brought to the country as
children.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Associated Press                      Associated Press College
students (from left) Martha Vasquez, Jessica Ortiz and Miriam Vasquez follow the
Senate vote on television Saturday. The three women are illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 20, 2011 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: 0


Arizona backs off on adding to anti-immigration laws

As the realities of economics have intruded, Arizona may be looking to shed the
image of hard-line anti-immigration pioneer. On Thursday, Arizona lawmakers
rejected new anti-immigration measures, in what was widely seen as capitulation
to pressure from business executives and an admission that the state's tough
stance had resulted in a chilling of the normally robust tourism and convention
industry. The state Senate voted down five bills that, among other things,
sought to require hospitals to inform law enforcement officials when treating
patients suspected of being in the country illegally and to prod the Supreme
Court to rule against automatic citizenship for U.S.-born children of illegal
immigrants.

Aristide returns to Haiti - Former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
returned home from seven years in exile to a celebrity welcome Friday and
immediately took a swipe at the decision to bar his political party from the
country's presidential election. Aristide, addressing reporters and a Haitian
public that clustered around TVs and radios throughout the country, said the
decision not to allow his Lavalas Family party disenfranchised the majority in a
sharply divided nation. "Excluding Lavalas, you cut the branches that link the
people," he said. "The solution is inclusion of all Haitians as human beings."

4 censured over Navy video - The Secretary of the Navy issued censure letters
Friday to four high-ranking officers over a series of raunchy videos shown to
thousands of sailors aboard the aircraft carrier Enterprise, including the
captain who produced and starred in many of them. A letter of censure does not
end a military officer's career, but it makes it unlikely that the officer will
be promoted. Capt. Owen P. Honors Jr., who was the aircraft carrier's No. 2
officer when he helped produce and appeared in the series of videos that aired
on the ship's closed-circuit TV station, Rear Adms. Ron Horton and Larry Rice,
both former commanders of the Enterprise, and Capt. John Dixon, received the
censure letters.

Pakistan pulls out of talks - Pakistan pulled out of upcoming talks with the
U.S. on the war in Afghanistan, a move meant to convey Islamabad's anger over an
American drone missile strike that it claims killed a gathering of civilians
along the Afghan border. The U.S. and Pakistan disagree on who was killed in the
attack Thursday in North Waziristan, a volatile tribal region that serves as a
stronghold for an array of militant groups, including al-Qaida, the Pakistani
Taliban and the Haqqani network, a wing of the Afghan Taliban that regularly
carries out attacks against U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan.

14 dead in Mexico - Mexican authorities say six gunmen were shot to death during
a gunfight with security forces in the northern city of Monterrey while eight
alleged kidnappers were killed in the Gulf of Mexico state of Veracruz. An
American was killed by gunmen while visiting relatives in the border city of
Ciudad Juarez.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illinois officials rethink immigration program Under proposal, counties could
opt out of enforcement, as many offenders are arrested on only minor violations.
LOCAL

BYLINE: BY HANNAH HESS o hhess@post-dispatch.com > 217-782-4912

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: 0


SPRINGFIELD, Ill. - A federal immigration enforcement program designed to secure
communities from the "worst of the worst" offenders also is snaring those
arrested for minor crimes, prompting some Illinois officials to rethink the
state's involvement.

In the Metro East, as well as Chicago, anyone who enters a county jail is
fingerprinted, then the person's records are cross-checked for immigration
status. Under the program, local jails hold those who are illegal immigrants
until they are taken into federal custody.

"We just process them through the local charge, then (U.S. marshals) pick them
up," said Madison County Sheriff Bob Hertz. "They'll be headed some place on a
federal charge at that point."

The immigrants taken into federal custody could be violent offenders, but
immigrant rights groups decry the fact that 32 percent of the people put into
deportation proceedings in Illinois - including all eight of the individuals
booked in the Metro East - had no prior criminal record, here or abroad.

Opponents of the program claim that under harsh enforcement, a minor traffic
violation could send an illegal immigrant into deportation proceedings.

"That person wasn't sent out of this country because they robbed a bank, or
because they dealt drugs, or because they were a weapons runner," said Kane
County Sheriff Pat Perez. "They were sent out of this country because they
didn't have a valid drivers license and they were here illegally."

Perez is asking the Legislature to grant Kane County permission to opt out of
the federal program.

Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn's office has expressed support for a proposal that
would give all 26 counties currently sharing information with immigration
enforcement officials the option to back out of their commitment.

Democratic members of an Illinois House committee approved the measure last
week, but it will likely face strong opposition from the state's GOP.

"The fact is, these individuals have still broken the law as it pertains to the
state of Illinois," said state Rep. Dan Brady, R-Bloomington, during a heated
committee debate that centered on racial profiling and immigration reform.

Metro East law enforcement officials said the program, which began in 2009, has
been an effective tool for getting dangerous criminals off the streets and out
of the country.

Capt. Steve Johnson, a 22-year veteran of the St. Clair County Sheriff's
Department, said Secure Communities has opened up a line of communication with
the federal government that was previously out of the county's reach.

"We weren't connected to the computers and we didn't have the communication,"
said Johnson. "We literally were just blinded to whether this person was a
terrorist, or whether they were someone who's hiding out in this country who
doesn't belong here."

Madison County authorities are also pleased to be sharing fingerprints with the
federal government, Hertz said.

This week, he estimated that a dozen of the 273 people in his jail, roughly 5
percent, had been detained by immigration officials.

"My personal belief is that people that aren't United States citizens should be
dealt with," Hertz said. "We don't go out there and try to figure out who's not
a United States citizen."

Racial profiling is not the goal of the program, Hertz said. Instead, he added,
it establishes a secure process for checking the immigration status of every
person arrested.

State Rep. Mike Bost, R-Murphysboro, who voted no on the legislation in
committee said that sheriffs statewide have the responsibility to uphold federal
commitments, regardless of their personal beliefs about immigration policy.

"When our sheriffs take an oath of office, they take an oath to uphold the laws
of the state of Illinois, the federal Constitution and the Constitution of the
state of Illinois," Bost said. "They don't get to select whether it's civil or
criminal - it's the law. Based on that, they should stay in the program and
fulfill the requirements of the program."

The bill is HB929.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LOCAL DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: 0


SPRINGFIELD, ILL. > Madison County sheriff to continue sharing immigration
records - The sheriff of Madison County intends to keep sharing arrest records
with federal immigration authorities through the Secure Communities program,
despite Gov. Pat Quinn's decision to formally sever all lines of communication.

"The bottom line is, I don't work for the governor of Illinois," said Sheriff
Bob Hertz. He said the Madison County Jail would continue offering fingerprints
and arrest records for federal authorities to cross-check with immigration
records, as long as they are interested.

The governor announced Wednesday that he was pulling Illinois out of the federal
deportation program designed to root out the "worst of the worst," because the
program had swept up many illegal immigrants who had never been convicted of any
crime. He requested that the partnerships between Metro East and Chicago county
jails be terminated.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement are looking for a way to keep lines of
information open, though Quinn's order will make it harder to share. He
suspended the role of the Illinois State Police, who act as a conduit between
county authorities and federal officials.

Illinois is the first of the 42 states involved to withdraw from the program,
but criticism of Secure Communities has made headlines nationwide. ICE wants to
discuss concerns, and agency director John Morton traveled to Illinois Friday to
meet with officials and discuss their complaints.

Meanwhile, Springfield lawmakers are moving forward with legislation that places
statutory limits on how much information is shared. Under the plan that passed
the House on Friday, Illinois State Police would only provide federal
authorities with county jail data about individuals convicted of criminal
offenses. (Hannah Hess)

ST. LOUIS > More federal money comes to schools - Missouri will receive an
additional $8.9 million in federal funds aimed at turning around some of the
state's persistently lowest achieving schools, the U.S. Department of Education
announced this week. The money is in addition to $54 million in federal dollars
for specific school improvement efforts over three years. The awards for
first-year School Improvement Grants - which ranged from $50,000 to nearly $1.7
million for 32 schools statewide -were announced in the fall. The deadline for
applications for second-year grants is June 13.

The additional money announced this week will be awarded to eligible schools
that did not receive any of the $54 million. (Elizabethe Holland)

MARYLAND HEIGHTS > City official wants direction on cleanup - Maryland Heights
will have spent up to $100,000 in tornado cleanup efforts by next week, city
officials said Thursday. The effort will continue but by the May 18 City Council
meeting, City Administrator Mark Levin said he wants "some direction from the
council as to how far we are going to go."

"There is going to be a federal cutoff date for reimbursement," Levin noted. "We
can't just go on and on, and have someone calling a year from now and asking us
to pick up a dead tree that was damaged this April."

Hundreds of trees on public and private rights of way as well as city-owned
street signs and other items were damaged along with about 1,100 homes in the
April 22 storm. The city is removing storm debris that residents are able to
move to the public right of way but cannot go onto private property to do so,
Levin said. (Special to the Post-Dispatch)

NORMANDY > Liquor license decision to be made later this month - Normandy City
Council members said Tuesday night they are determined to resolve the
long-standing debate over a package liquor license for Crazy Deals with a vote
May 24. When the business, close to the northeast corner of Natural Bridge and
Lucas & Hunt roads expanded, it sought full package sales, rather than the beer
and wine license it carries. The council on March 31 adopted legislation
allowing one such package license in the city but has debated over whether Crazy
Deals should get it.

The business now sells convenience items as well as beer and wine, and claims it
could increase overall sales 50 percent if allowed to carry package liquor. But
some council members worry a full license might promote bad behavior in the
area, including public drunkenness, panhandling and loitering.The ordinance
passed in March prohibits package liquor sales in small containers (including
those commonly called "airline style") or in containers larger than 24 ounces,
wherever the license is issued. (Special to the Post-Dispatch)

ARNOLD > Arnold to keep red light cameras - Despite Jefferson County's decision
to ban red light cameras, the city of Arnold is determined to keep the cameras
it has installed at four intersections.

The City Council voted Thursday to begin negotiations for a contract extension
with American Traffic Solutions, the city's vendor since 2005. The current
contract expires May 31.

City Administrator Matt Unrein said he would incorporate council member's
concerns, including a means to collect fines, into the contract. The vote was
7-1 to pursue the contract, with Councilwoman Doris Borgelt voting against it.
(Special to the Post-Dispatch)

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. > Measure would require back-seat passengers to buckle up -
Illinois vehicle passengers - whether in the back or front seats - may soon have
to strap in under legislation requiring everyone to wear seat belts, regardless
of age.

Legislation tightening the state's seat belt law has been approved by the
Illinois House. It now goes to the Senate, where chamber president John
Cullerton has often backed traffic safety measures.

Currently, safety belts are required for back-seat passengers only if they're 19
or younger. The House bill that passed 61-55 on Thursday would require belts for
everyone with a few exceptions, such as passengers in cabs. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: 0


SPRINGFIELD, ILL. > Madison County sheriff to continue sharing immigration
records - The sheriff of Madison County intends to keep sharing arrest records
with federal immigration authorities through the Secure Communities program,
despite Gov. Pat Quinn's decision to formally sever all lines of communication.

"The bottom line is, I don't work for the governor of Illinois," said Sheriff
Bob Hertz. He said the Madison County Jail would continue offering fingerprints
and arrest records for federal authorities to cross-check with immigration
records, as long as they are interested.

The governor announced Wednesday that he was pulling Illinois out of the federal
deportation program designed to root out the "worst of the worst," because the
program had swept up many illegal immigrants who had never been convicted of any
crime. He requested that the partnerships between Metro East and Chicago county
jails be terminated.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement are looking for a way to keep lines of
information open, though Quinn's order will make it harder to share. He
suspended the role of the Illinois State Police, who act as a conduit between
county authorities and federal officials.

Illinois is the first of the 42 states involved to withdraw from the program,
but criticism of Secure Communities has made headlines nationwide. ICE wants to
discuss concerns, and agency director John Morton traveled to Illinois Friday to
meet with officials and discuss their complaints.

Meanwhile, Springfield lawmakers are moving forward with legislation that places
statutory limits on how much information is shared. Under the plan that passed
the House on Friday, Illinois State Police would only provide federal
authorities with county jail data about individuals convicted of criminal
offenses. (Hannah Hess)

ST. LOUIS > More federal money comes to schools - Missouri will receive an
additional $8.9 million in federal funds aimed at turning around some of the
state's persistently lowest achieving schools, the U.S. Department of Education
announced this week. The money is in addition to $54 million in federal dollars
for specific school improvement efforts over three years. The awards for
first-year School Improvement Grants - which ranged from $50,000 to nearly $1.7
million for 32 schools statewide -were announced in the fall. The deadline for
applications for second-year grants is June 13.

The additional money announced this week will be awarded to eligible schools
that did not receive any of the $54 million. (Elizabethe Holland)

MARYLAND HEIGHTS > City official wants direction on cleanup - Maryland Heights
will have spent up to $100,000 in tornado cleanup efforts by next week, city
officials said Thursday. The effort will continue but by the May 18 City Council
meeting, City Administrator Mark Levin said he wants "some direction from the
council as to how far we are going to go."

"There is going to be a federal cutoff date for reimbursement," Levin noted. "We
can't just go on and on, and have someone calling a year from now and asking us
to pick up a dead tree that was damaged this April."

Hundreds of trees on public and private rights of way as well as city-owned
street signs and other items were damaged along with about 1,100 homes in the
April 22 storm. The city is removing storm debris that residents are able to
move to the public right of way but cannot go onto private property to do so,
Levin said. (Special to the Post-Dispatch)

NORMANDY > Liquor license decision to be made later this month - Normandy City
Council members said Tuesday night they are determined to resolve the
long-standing debate over a package liquor license for Crazy Deals with a vote
May 24. When the business, close to the northeast corner of Natural Bridge and
Lucas & Hunt roads expanded, it sought full package sales, rather than the beer
and wine license it carries. The council on March 31 adopted legislation
allowing one such package license in the city but has debated over whether Crazy
Deals should get it.

The business now sells convenience items as well as beer and wine, and claims it
could increase overall sales 50 percent if allowed to carry package liquor. But
some council members worry a full license might promote bad behavior in the
area, including public drunkenness, panhandling and loitering.The ordinance
passed in March prohibits package liquor sales in small containers (including
those commonly called "airline style") or in containers larger than 24 ounces,
wherever the license is issued. (Special to the Post-Dispatch)

ARNOLD > Arnold to keep red light cameras - Despite Jefferson County's decision
to ban red light cameras, the city of Arnold is determined to keep the cameras
it has installed at four intersections.

The City Council voted Thursday to begin negotiations for a contract extension
with American Traffic Solutions, the city's vendor since 2005. The current
contract expires May 31.

City Administrator Matt Unrein said he would incorporate council member's
concerns, including a means to collect fines, into the contract. The vote was
7-1 to pursue the contract, with Councilwoman Doris Borgelt voting against it.
(Special to the Post-Dispatch)

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. > Measure would require back-seat passengers to buckle up -
Illinois vehicle passengers - whether in the back or front seats - may soon have
to strap in under legislation requiring everyone to wear seat belts, regardless
of age.

Legislation tightening the state's seat belt law has been approved by the
Illinois House. It now goes to the Senate, where chamber president John
Cullerton has often backed traffic safety measures.

Currently, safety belts are required for back-seat passengers only if they're 19
or younger. The House bill that passed 61-55 on Thursday would require belts for
everyone with a few exceptions, such as passengers in cabs. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

PEOPLE

BYLINE: Compiled by Ted Rodgers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 156 words

DATELINE: 0


Lady Gaga criticizes immigration crackdown

Singer Lady Gaga says she doesn't agree with Arizona's tough immigration law and
wrote the song "Americano" as a response to it.

Coming back - Lewis J. Stadlen told Judith Newmark at stltoday.com/cultureclub
that he will appear in the final show of the Muny season as the frustrated dad
of teenager Kim in "Bye Bye Birdie," which will be the final show of producer
Paul Blake, who is retiring after this season.

Poetry - The St. Louis Poetry Center contest winners will read their works
Sunday at the Duane Reed Gallery, Jane Henderson reported at
stltoday.com/bookblog. The James H. Nash contest winners are Peggy Hapke Lewis,
Dwight Bitikofer and Melissa Gurley Bancks. The Beverly Hopkins Memorial High
School contest winners are Michael Peter Flom, DeAnna Pope and Colin Bruns.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Actor Albert Finney is 75. Missouri politician John Ashcroft is 69. Actress
Candice Bergen is 65.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Marriages are not netting green cards for gay couples But they continue
applying, hoping for a sympathetic immigration judge.

BYLINE: By AMY TAXIN o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: 0


CATHEDRAL CITY, Calif. - Faced with losing the life they've built together in
the dusty California desert town of Cathedral City, Doug Gentry and Alex
Benshimol are making a last-ditch effort to stave off the looming threat of
deportation.

To a large degree, the couple is stuck. While the American information
technology consultant and Venezuelan pet groomer wed at a romantic Connecticut
ceremony last year, the federal government won't recognize the marriage between
the two men - and as a result, won't approve their application for a green card.

But the couple, and others facing a similar predicament, are still trying. The
men don't expect to actually obtain a green card any time soon and have already
been shot down once but hope filing an application might convince an immigration
judge to at least refrain from deporting Benshimol while the fiery legal debate
over the country's same-sex marriage laws simmers.

"There have been so many ups and downs on this roller coaster. I really don't
know what to expect," said Gentry, 53. "It can't hurt (to refile). All they can
do is deny it again."

For years, immigration attorneys warned gay couples not to bother seeking a
green card for their foreign spouses since there was no chance they'd get one.
Now, in select cases, they're starting to rethink that advice.

In the wake of the federal government's announcement that it will no longer
defend a law that defines marriage as between a man and a woman and a court
ruling raising questions about the law, some immigrant advocates have suggested
that gay couples fighting deportation apply for a green card in a final effort
to stay in the country.

Most couples, advocates say, should refrain from doing so to avoid drawing
attention to their predicament if the foreign spouse is here illegally and to
avoid forking over cash for a benefit they won't get any time soon if here on a
legal visa.

But the small group of couples already facing deportation has little to lose by
applying and might see some gain.

In March, an immigration judge in New York halted deportation proceedings
involving a lesbian couple until December. Last month, an immigration judge in
New Jersey did the same for a Venezuelan salsa dancer married to an American
graduate student after Attorney General Eric Holder asked an immigration appeals
court to review another case involving a same-sex couple.

In a memo posted to its website in March, the American Immigration Lawyers
Association suggested that couples facing deportation consider filing for a
green card in the hope that it might win sympathy from an immigration judge
willing to put the case on hold or bolster the immigrant spouse's case for an
asylum petition.

"We are advising more people to do it - at least in the context of if the
foreign partner, the foreign spouse is in deportation proceedings," said
Victoria Neilson, legal director of Immigration Equality, an immigrant rights
group focused on gays and lesbians. "At this point there is more of a feeling
that the tide is turning on marriage in this country and it could be something
that could be helpful."

U.S. immigration authorities are denying green cards for same-sex couples
because the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act specifies that marriage is between a
man and a woman, said Chris Bentley, spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration
Services. As of March, the agency had 10 or 20 such petitions pending, he said.

There are roughly 26,000 same-sex couples in the United States where one partner
is a U.S. citizen. There's no estimate on how many have legally married, said
Gary Gates, a UCLA professor and co-author of the Gay and Lesbian Atlas.

It's impossible to know how many couples filed green card petitions before last
year, immigration authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation Digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: 0


Panetta deflects questions on Afghanistan drawdown

Leon Panetta, President Barack Obama's nominee to be secretary of defense,
deflected persistent questions Thursday about one of the most pressing issues at
the Pentagon, the scope of the American troop withdrawals from Afghanistan next
month. Panetta, who is now director of the CIA, did say during his confirmation
hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee that he agreed with a recent
statement by Obama that the troop withdrawals should be "significant."

Alabama enacts immigration law - Alabama's governor signed Thursday what is
billed as the toughest immigration law in the nation. The law includes
provisions requiring public schools to determine students' immigration status
and making it a crime to knowingly give an illegal immigrant a ride.

Palin emails being released - More than 24,000 pages of emails Sarah Palin sent
as governor are to be released today in response to public records requests.

Medical marijuana can cost a person a job - The Washington Supreme Court has
ruled that employers can fire their workers for legally using medical marijuana
even if it is used outside the workplace. The justices said in a 7-1 decision
Thursday that nothing in state law protects employees who use medical marijuana.

Ranger receiving Medal of Honor - An Army Ranger from New Mexico who lost his
hand throwing a grenade away from two fellow soldiers in Afghanistan will become
one of only two living service members awarded the elite Medal of Honor in the
current round of conflicts, Army officials said Thursday. Sgt. 1st Class Leroy
Petry will receive the nation's highest award for valor from President Barack
Obama on July 12.

Aide leaves White House - The former Navy fighter pilot who was an important
terrorism-fighting official in the Bush and Obama administrations is resigning
after 4½ years on the job, the White House said. Michael Leiter, director of the
National Counterterrorism Center, is credited with helping put in place major
reforms to better share intelligence.

80th reunion - Cornell University's Class of 1931 held its 80th reunion. Thirty
members are still alive and are known as "The Thirty-Wonders."

New Apple headquarters - Apple is planning a new headquarters shaped like a
spaceship, which it hopes will be the best office building in the world. The
plans were unveiled in a surprise appearance by Apple CEO Steve Jobs before the
Cupertino, Calif., City Council. "There is not a single straight piece of glass
in this building," Jobs said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. revises immigration effort Secure Communities will continue, but local,
state agreements will be ended.

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports Kevin McDermott of the Post-Dispatch
contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: 0


Federal immigration officials announced Friday that they were terminating the
joint agreements with state and local governments that have been at the center
of a controversy surrounding a national fingerprint-sharing program, although
they said they would continue setting up the program unilaterally.

In a letter to 40 governors and local officials who had signed the agreements,
John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
change was intended to eliminate widespread confusion, which has plagued the
program since its kickoff in 2008, over whether the agreements were necessary to
start the program. The move also seemed intended to remove political pressure
from local officials who felt uneasy about appearing to collaborate with federal
authorities on immigration enforcement.

Supporters tout the program as a way to identify and expel "the worst of the
worst" among illegal aliens who commit crimes. But critics say deportation is
being used against suspects who have committed crimes as minor as driving on an
invalid license.

Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn and other Democrats, as well as some Illinois law
enforcement officials, are among those who have criticized the program for
casting too wide a net. The administration's letter makes it clear the program
will still be operating, though without all the state-level agreements that were
in place.

"It is disappointing that the Department of Homeland Security has decided to
push forward with Secure Communities without demonstrating real improvements to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's flawed implementation of the program,"
Quinn's office said Friday in an emailed statement.

"... Illinois remains concerned that the program can have the opposite effect of
its stated purpose. Instead of making our communities safer, the program's
flawed implementation may divide communities, families, and may make people less
inclined to reach out to law enforcement."

Madison County Sheriff Bob Hertz, a supporter of the program, declined Friday to
comment on the decision by the administration of President Barack Obama or
Quinn's reaction to it, saying, "I'm not going to weigh in on what's going on in
Washington."

But Hertz said he intends to continue sharing information with "anyone who wants
it" in other police agencies regarding aliens arrested in Madison County. "I'm
not going to be an obstructionist force in any law enforcement interest," he
said.

Under the program, a cornerstone of the Obama administration's enforcement
strategy, the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local or county jail are
automatically sent to the Department of Homeland Security and compared with
prints in the agency's files, which record immigration violations.

Immigration officials insist that the program is intended to identify and deport
the most serious noncitizen criminals as well as those who threaten national
security. But critics have argued that the program has resulted in the
deportation of a disproportionate number of foreigners guilty only of low-level
offenses, such as traffic infractions or immigration violations.

This year, the governors of Illinois, New York and Massachusetts, in the belief
that Secure Communities was voluntary, announced they were suspending or
canceling their participation in the program. But since at least last fall,
federal officials have insisted that the program was never voluntary and could
be carried out across the country without the consent of local or state
officials.

Federal officials have explained that as long as local jurisdictions continue to
share fingerprints with the FBI - a routine procedure - then the fingerprints
will automatically flow into a general federal database accessible to Homeland
Security Department officials.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Enhancing public safety Immigration o Local, federal authorities are directed
away from pursuing low-priority violators. OTHER VIEWS

BYLINE: By Ken Schmitt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: 0


In July 2009, Adrian Bustillos-Alarcón was changing a tire by the side of the
road in Minnesota when a police officer approached him. Instead of asking the
Mexican citizen if he needed help or offering assistance, the police officer ran
the car's license plates and asked for his documents. Then he called
immigration. Although he never was charged with a crime and had no prior
criminal history, Bustillos-Alarcón was arrested, taken to a local jail and held
until immigration authorities got him two days later.

His story is only one of 127 similar stories gathered by the American
Immigration Lawyers Association and highlighted in a new report outlining
immigrants' cases after they were questioned by local police and turned over to
federal immigration authorities for deportation. Some of the 127 were accused of
committing minor offenses. But, like Bustillos-Alarcón, many others were
questioned for no apparent reason.

This story is not unfamiliar right here in the St. Louis area. Nor is it
unusual. Routinely, my law office receives calls from people whose family member
- a husband, son, daughter, mother or other relative - was arrested and is being
held in a municipal jail somewhere for a minor traffic offense. When we contact
the jail staff, we are advised that there are no charges issued related to the
traffic stop and the person is being sent directly to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Clearly, the traffic stop was for the local police to engage in
their own version of immigration enforcement.

There are obvious concerns about racial profiling raised by these cases. Aside
from that, however, one has to question the economics of this police behavior.
As a result of these "enforcement" strategies, of the record 400,000 people
deported in 2010, tens of thousands were individuals with no significant
criminal history and who posed no public threat whatsoever. The cost to the
federal government of this record number of deportations exceeded $5 billion
last year. The cost to the local police jurisdictions and municipalities in
man-hours and jail expenses to arrest, process and hold these people for ICE is
untold. This additional local cost is also a huge unfunded mandate paid by the
municipal taxpayer.

All of this raises very serious questions as to how to get a bigger "bang for
the buck" out of limited government dollars in these difficult economic times.
Confounding this reality is the fact that included in those deported over the
past years are tens of thousands of high school graduates and young adults
educated in this country's public schools because of Congress' failure to pass
the Dream Act. The lost return on the educational investment has been estimated
by the National Immigration Law Center to be in excess of $500 million per year
in Illinois alone. We have been spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to
deport people who pose no public safety risk and who otherwise would be poised
to help in the heavy lifting needed to get this country back on track. Exactly
what are the government's priorities?

However, the economic realities of the day may have forced a re-examination.

In her Aug. 18 letter directed to Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., Secretary of
Homeland Security Janet Napolitano stated, "the President has said on numerous
occasions that it makes no sense to expend our enforcement resources on
low-priority cases," such as individuals whose only offense is a minor traffic
violation. To do otherwise "hinders our public safety mission."

This realization apparently has prompted the Departments of Homeland Security
and Justice to form a new interagency team to review pending cases before the
immigration courts and determine, on a case-by-case basis, which ones really
merit the huge expenditure of resources to proceed and which do not fit the
government's enforcement priorities.

The question at hand is whether this reordering of national priorities will
trickle down to the local ICE field offices. When an undocumented person with no
criminal record is arrested in St. Ann for a minor traffic offense, will ICE opt
not to issue an immigration hold? If so, the federal government may well have
taken the first step in the long road of reordering its failed immigration
system. We still have a long way to go.

---

Ken Schmitt is a St. Louis immigration attorney and chair of the Missouri/Kansas
Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo - Ken Schmitt

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 14, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration office here raises ire Complaint to head of immigration service says
staff in St. Louis is confrontational, unprofessional.

BYLINE: BY PHILLIP O'CONNOR poconnor@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8321

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: 0


One person was asked if he was "a good Muslim" after he acknowledged having
premarital sex with his wife.

Another was told it was "not very Catholic" for his wife to have had her
fallopian tubes tied.

A third was told she was a poor mother because her children had severe food
allergies.

Again and again, a complaint said, people seeking the services of federal
immigration officers in St. Louis say they've confronted adversarial and
unprofessional behavior.

More than 170 local lawyers who represent them are now demanding action.

"This is not a case of a few rogue officers. This is systemic management
failure, and corrective action is needed," Kenneth K. Schmitt, chairman of the
Missouri/Kansas Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, wrote
in a recent letter that was hand delivered to the director of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. The federal agency oversees lawful
immigration and has 18,000 government employees and contractors working in 250
offices around the world, according to its website. That includes 17 employees
and six contractors in the St. Louis field office in the Robert A. Young federal
building downtown.

In his letter, Schmitt cited a 10-year period in which the local immigration
office has become "isolated and hostile towards the public and those who appear
before them."

He said the office has gained a reputation outside St. Louis for its lack of
communication with lawyers, adversarial stance, intolerably long and unexplained
delays in deciding applications, and being out of line with national immigration
policy.

The local office "operates in a culture of conflict and outright hostility that
discourages any degree of professionalism or cooperation between the bar and the
field office," the letter said.

Immigrants who seek the help from the office are not those who are charged with
a crime or facing deportation. Instead, they are seeking a legal benefit to
which they believe they are entitled such as citizenship, family reunification
or asylum.

Chester Moyer, who heads the St. Louis office, met briefly with a reporter
Tuesday in an agency conference room to discuss the allegations.

"Somebody's out there skewering us for some reason," he said.

Moyer then excused himself to telephone agency officials for permission to
speak. On his return, he declined further comment, citing instructions from an
agency spokesman.

Later Tuesday, the spokesman, Tim Counts, of the agency's Minneapolis-St. Paul
office, emailed a statement.

"We are aware of the letter and are reviewing the issues raised in it," Counts
wrote.

Along with his letter, Schmitt submitted about 80 examples of what lawyers
considered inappropriate or unacceptable behavior by the St. Louis staff.

They included:

- Inexplicably long delays - in some cases years - by the St. Louis office in
deciding applications. Questions about the status of cases go unanswered.

- Attempts to deprive applicants of legal counsel. Some clients were told they
didn't need a lawyer, others were interviewed without their lawyer's knowledge
and still others were told they should appear at hearings without counsel.
Lawyers are routinely told to "be quiet," and are threatened with being expelled
from interviews for talking, asking questions or seeking to record the
proceedings.

- Interview techniques that are often aggressive, combative and abusive. Office
employees often belittle applicants, ask inappropriate questions and refuse to
shut their office doors during interviews when others are nearby, depriving
applicants of confidentiality.

"Even routine interviews are conducted in an uncomfortable and intimidating
manner," Schmitt wrote. "Any attempt (to) make an immediate correction to an
answer is met with an allegation of dishonesty."

The letter claims that communication between attorneys and the St. Louis office
is stifled. Unlike some other field offices, the St. Louis office has not
established a telephone or email system for special cases. It allows only
written inquiries, that then are ignored. Many attorneys, particularly younger
ones and those working for nonprofit entities without the financial means to
wage protracted legal challenges, are too intimidated to report the behavior.
One lawyer was so afraid of retaliation for speaking out that he left anonymous
phone messages for Schmitt about the problems he had encountered.

Schmitt said he wrote the letter to the head of the federal agency in Washington
only after years of failed efforts to resolve the issues with the local office.

"I can't tell him someone needs to be fired or retrained or moved around,"
Schmitt said. "But I would hope, at a minimum, he would take an interest in what
is going on here ... and how he expects to proceed on correcting that."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 14, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

More employers join immigration program

BYLINE: By KATE BRUMBACK o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: 0


ATLANTA - In the last few months, the roster of companies in a revamped,
voluntary immigration enforcement program has expanded by nearly one-fifth as
the administration of President Barack Obama steps up employer audits.

It may seem counterintuitive for a company to voluntarily open its books to the
scrutiny of federal agents, but officials with U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement say the benefits of its IMAGE program can include lower fines and
can enhance a company's image.

"We need IMAGE because an enforcement-only approach isn't going to produce the
best results," said ICE Director John Morton.

The acronym stands for ICE Mutual Agreement between Government and Employers.
Officials say it can reduce the employment of illegal immigrants and the use of
fake identification documents.

To participate, employers must meet several requirements: enroll in the federal
E-Verify program; submit to an ICE audit of their I-9 forms that new employees
complete and related documents; establish a written hiring and employment
verification policy that includes a yearly internal audit; and sign a
partnership agreement with ICE.

The agency says it will train IMAGE participants on proper hiring procedures,
fraudulent document detection, use of E-Verify and anti-discrimination
procedures.

Many employers already use the E-Verify federal online database to check the
employment eligibility of new hires - either voluntarily or because they are
required to by state or federal law. But unauthorized workers can still slip
through if they use false documents with someone else's name and matching Social
Security number. IMAGE aims to give employers extra tools to ensure a legal
workforce, Morton said.

The government has cracked down on employers as part of its immigration
enforcement policy, but officials have emphasized employer audits more than the
high-profile workplace raids done during the administration of President George
W. Bush.

Morton cited a key reason for recent interest in the program: the rise in
enforcement actions.

"We're serious about enforcing the law against employers who violate it," he
said.

Because program members must undergo a full I-9 audit to join - meaning they
have to let ICE examine a representative sample of the employment documents - it
is less likely they'll be audited in the future because the possibility of more
internal compliance problems is "pretty minimal," said Greg Siskind, an
immigration lawyer from Memphis, Tenn.

Companies in industries that have historically had problems with unauthorized
workers, such as agriculture and hospitality, may want to join IMAGE to make
sure their employees are eligible to work in the U.S., he said.

"Maybe you're trying to get out in front of that and trying to avoid problems if
you actually end up getting audited," Siskind said.

Being "IMAGE certified" also can help a company score contracts with other
companies and government agencies that place high importance on immigration
compliance, said Dawn Lurie, a lawyer who advises businesses on immigration
issues.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Missouri-Benz Our view o Dislike your executives getting arrested in Alabama?
Move.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: 0


Dear Mercedes-Benz U.S. International:

We are dismayed about the unfortunate arrest of one of your company's German
executives who ran afoul of Alabama's restrictive anti-immigration law. The
46-year-old executive was arrested Friday while driving a rental car because he
didn't have his immigration papers with him.

How inhospitable. Carpetbaggers never have been treated very kindly in the
South, though we would have thought exceptions would have been made for those
with SUV factories in their carpetbags.

The head of the state's pension system, David Bronner, told the Associated Press
about Alabama's immigration law: "You are giving the image, whether it's valid
or not, that you don't like foreigners, period."

Here's an idea: You should move your SUV plant to Missouri.

Our state has many advantages over Alabama. We are the Show-Me State, not the
"Show me your papers" state. Our Legislature is hostile on the immigration
issue, but not as hostile as Alabama's or Arizona's.

Unlike in Alabama, our law enforcement officials won't check immigration status
unless presenting you for incarceration on other offenses. In St. Louis, we not
only welcome immigrants (outside of Valley Park), but we have a proud German
heritage.

Many of our founders came from your country, and at least two elements of
traditional German heritage - hard work and beer - stuck.

We realize that moving a massive automotive plant is quite the undertaking, but
we happen to have space for one in Fenton and a lot of trained autoworkers. A
lot.

We have a state law that offers up to $100 million in tax incentives for
automobile plant expansion; in the last 12 months Ford and General Motors have
expanded operations here. We probably could come up with a lot more for a brand
new plant.

Missouri is not a right-to-work state, but let's face it: Judging from the new
United Auto Workers contracts, there's not much to fear there. Word is, your
employees in Vance, Ala., already are well paid, and your corporate boss,
Daimler AG, is no stranger to dealing with auto workers' unions.

You've got two choices. Either ask your executives to carry their immigration
papers at all times, or move to a state that understands gemüchlichkeit.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: - Read the latest national news at stltoday.com/news/national.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: 0


Cartel leader charged in killing of agent

A reputed Mexican drug cartel leader was charged in the ambush slaying earlier
this year of a U.S. immigration officer in Mexico - a killing that set off a
massive search for the assailants on both sides of the Southwest border. Julian
Zapata Espinoza, an alleged chief with the Zetas cartel, pleaded not guilty in a
brief court appearance Wednesday in the murder of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Special Agent Jaime Zapata last Feb. 15. He and another agent, who
was wounded, were ambushed in their car by a convoy of vehicles in the Mexican
state of San Luis Potosi.

Chinese scientist gets 7 years for stealing secrets - A judge has sentenced a
Chinese national scientist to more than seven years in federal prison after he
pleaded guilty to illegally sending trade secrets on a pesticide and a new food
product to China and Germany. Judge William Lawrence announced the sentence
Wednesday for Kexue Huang, 46, formerly of Carmel, Ind. He pleaded guilty on one
count of economic espionage to benefit the Chinese government and one count of
theft of trade secrets. Court records show Huang from 2007 to 2010 delivered
trade secrets on an organic pesticide he helped develop at Dow AgroSciences in
Indiana to people in Germany and China. After joining Minnesota-based Cargill
Inc. in 2008, Huang stole a key component to make a new food product and gave it
to a university student in China.

Missing man not Gacy victim - After Ted Szal ran out on his family near Chicago
35 years ago, he had no idea his relatives feared he had been killed by
notorious serial killer John Wayne Gacy. Szal's family learned this week that
their missing relative is alive in a suburb of Portland, Ore.

"My family thought I was dead. That hurt when I heard that," the carpenter, 59,
told The Associated Press. "There's a difference between being murdered and
running away, and I basically just ran away."

Murder-suicide in New York state - Authorities say a distraught New York woman
sent her husband on an errand and then fatally shot her 10-year-old daughter,
79-year-old father and herself in their suburban Rochester, N.Y., home. Penelope
Luddy, 53, had been "extremely distraught" for the past few weeks, the Monroe
County Sheriff Patrick O'Flynn said.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 25, 2011 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Arizona sheriff's immigration patrol is handed court defeat

BYLINE: By JACQUES BILLEAUD o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - A federal judge dealt a new setback Friday to the immigration
enforcement efforts of America's self-proclaimed "toughest sheriff," barring his
deputies from detaining people based solely on the suspicion that they're in the
country illegally.

The ruling sets the stage for a potential trial in a lawsuit that alleges racial
profiling in the patrols in Maricopa County, Ariz., and would further limit
Sheriff Joe Arpaio's immigration authority after Washington yanked his federal
powers this month.

Lawyers pushing the lawsuit on behalf of five Latino clients also won
class-action status that lets other Hispanics join the case if they have been
detained and questioned by Arpaio's deputies as either a driver or passenger in
a vehicle since January 2007.

U.S. District Judge Murray Snow hasn't yet ruled on the ultimate question of
racial profiling, but notes that the case's evidence could lead a judge or jury
to conclude that Arpaio's office racially profiles Latinos. The judge noted that
the sheriff has said that even without authority to enforce federal immigration
laws, his officers can detain people based upon their speech or appearance.

The 40-page ruling marked a qualified victory for the lawyers who pushed the
lawsuit. They didn't get the case decided without going to trial, as they had
hoped, but it came closer to the result they were looking for.

"We are encouraged by the Court's recognition of the strong evidence showing the
(Maricopa County Sheriff's Office's) pattern and practice of racial profiling
and its conducting of operations for reasons that are racially biased," Stan
Young, lead attorney for those who filed the lawsuit, said.

Arpaio won a small victory when the judge dismissed part of a claim by a
Hispanic couple who are among the five people who filed the lawsuit.

Snow ruled that one of Arpaio's deputies had probable cause to pull over the
couple on a closed roadway. The couple's illegal search claim was thrown out,
but the judge didn't dismiss their racial profiling claim.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Man fearing deportation is ruled to be U.S. citizen He discovered his Canadian
birth in 2006 and was arrested by immigration officials; judge resolves case by
siding with him.

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN DEERE o sdeere@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8116

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: 0


PARK HILLS, MO. - Scott Jones can stop worrying about being deported to Canada,
a country he hasn't seen since he was 6 weeks old.

Earlier this month, U.S. Immigration Judge John R. O'Malley of the Kansas City
Immigration Court ruled that Jones had presented enough evidence to show he was
a U.S. citizen.

Jones, 35, was born to Yvonne Clark, who had immigrated from Scotland, and Byron
Jones of the U.S. Before Scott Jones was born, Clark fled to Regina, Canada, to
escape a bad relationship with Byron Jones. She did not list Jones as the father
on her son's birth certificate. But the couple reunited a short time later; she
re-entered the U.S. when her son was 6 weeks old.

Scott Jones, now of Park Hills, Mo., grew up believing he was an American
citizen. He had no problem obtaining a Social Security card and drivers license.
Jones could not be reached for comment this week but has said that issues
surrounding his citizenship didn't arise when he was convicted in 1997 of felony
charges of breaking and entering and theft in Arkansas.

It was only when Jones broke his back in 2006 in an ATV accident and applied for
Medicaid that the government told him he wasn't a citizen.

When Jones applied for citizenship, said his attorney Raymond Bolourtchi, he
drew the attention of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"He just kind of walked into the devil's den," Bolourtchi said.

Immigration agents arrested Jones at his home in August 2010. Jones spent three
months at the Montgomery County Jail. ICE released him after the Post-Dispatch
inquired about his case. But he still faced deportation.

"We went through a million different hoops," Bolourtchi said.

When the lawyer uncovered evidence showing that the state of Kansas had enforced
an order of child support against Byron Jones, Bolourtchi said it proved that
Jones was Scott Jones' father. However, attorneys for the Department of Homeland
Security wanted Jones to produce the original court order for child support - a
document that Bolourtchi could not locate.

On March 12, O'Malley sided with Jones.

"The court finds there is convincing evidence that (Scott Jones) is a U.S.
citizen," O'Malley wrote. O'Malley dismissed the charge against Jones with
prejudice, meaning it can't be refiled.

ICE officials declined to discuss the case.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: 0


Transgender people given job protection

In a first-of-its-kind ruling, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled
that transgender people are protected from bias in the workplace. While some
federal courts have reached the same conclusion in recent years, employment law
experts say the EEOC decision is groundbreaking because it sets a national
standard of enforcement that offers employers clear guidance on the issue.

16,500 immigration cases suspended - Immigration and Customs Enforcement said it
offered to temporarily suspend the deportation cases of roughly 16,500 people
after reviewing more than 70 percent of the immigration cases pending as of
mid-April. The Obama administration announced in August that 300,000 deportation
cases would be reviewed and non-criminals and those illegal immigrants who posed
no public safety or national security threat would likely have their cases put
on hold indefinitely. Critics called the program an attempt by the
administration to work around Congress.

Marine charged in Rolla woman's death - A Marine charged with stealing an
assault weapon was arrested on suspicion of murder in the death of another
Marine's wife, authorities said. Louis Ray Perez was arrested on the additional
charge a week after the body of Brittany Killgore, 22, of Rolla, Mo., was found
in brush near a Southern California lake. Investigators had identified the
Perez, 45, as a person of interest shortly after the body was discovered. A
woman who reportedly lives with Perez, Jessica Lynn Lopez, 25, was charged with
Killgore's murder last week. She is being held in lieu of $3 million bail.

Mojave Cross site swapped - A federal judge approved a land-swap settlement of a
lawsuit over a remote site in the Mojave National Preserve where war memorial
crosses have been erected for decades. The settlement calls for the site at
Sunrise Rock to be turned over to a Veterans of Foreign Wars post in Barstow,
Calif., in exchange for five acres of donated land. The National Park Service
said it hopes to complete the swap by year's end, allowing the VFW to once more
erect a cross on the site. The most recent permanent cross was stolen and a
replacement was removed to comply with a court injunction.

Edwards aide testifies - A former aide to John Edwards testified Tuesday about
the lengths the former presidential candidate went to to hide his affair with a
campaign videographer, including raising money from wealthy benefactors to help
support the woman, developing code words to conceal their communication and
crafting an elaborate payment scheme to route money to her. In his second day of
testimony, Andrew Young said he felt "uneasy" about payment arrangements in
which Young's wife deposited checks under her maiden name before passing the
money to Edwards' mistress, Rielle Hunter.

Cartel indictment unsealed - Federal officials have unsealed the indictment of
Mexican drug boss Joaquin Guzman Loera, known as "El Chapo," leader of the
Sinaloa cartel and one of the world's richest men. The 14-count indictment was
returned April 11, but federal officials announced it Tuesday in El Paso. The
28-page indictment names Guzman and 23 others they allege were involved in the
operations and management of the cartel.

U.S. cautious on cyber attacking - The United States would use cyber weapons
against an adversary's computer networks only after officials at the highest
levels of government approved of the operation because of the risks of
collateral damage, a senior U.S. military official said Tuesday. The director of
intelligence at U.S. Cyber Command, Rear Adm. Samuel Cox, said that cyber
attacks can do significant damage to a country's infrastructure and should never
be carried out in a cavalier manner.

- Read more national news at stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  digest

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Curt Habraken o The Mountain Press / Associated Press KING
KONG COMES TO TENNESSEE - Workers hoist a King Kong exhibit into position
Tuesday at the Hollywood Wax Museum in Pigeon Forge, Tenn. The display will be
featured at the museum, which is set to open in this spring.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Debunking myths about immigration Policy o St. Louis must improve relations with
immigrants to improve the local economy.

BYLINE: By Rebecca Feldmann

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: 0


To draw attention to the important role immigrants play in our local economy,
the St. Louis County Economic Council and the St. Louis Development Corporation
recently held an Immigration & Innovation conference.

Perhaps the most enlightening revelation from the meeting was a study by St.
Louis University economist Jack Strauss that largely traced our region's
economic struggles to the relative scarcity of immigrants in the St. Louis area.

According to the report, policies that encourage immigration can actually lower
the Caucasian and African-American regional unemployment rate by 2 percent.

While no doubt surprising to many St. Louisans, the study came as no surprise to
those who work at Legal Services of Eastern Missouri and within the
organization's Immigration Law Project.

Through LSEM's ongoing work with legal immigrants, and by providing them with
holistic services and programs to help them navigate an often-difficult road to
economic success, we have seen firsthand the many contributions this hardworking
population has made in the St. Louis area.

But much more needs to be done to stabilize the immigrants who already are here
and to attract more potential workers to St. Louis.

To improve our local economy, we must include and engage more immigrants in our
social fabric while better understanding the barriers they face in pursuing the
American dream. This starts by dispelling some of the pervasive myths that
surround this key economic group.

Myth One: Applying for "legal" immigration status is a simple process. It is
not. The process rarely is simple and often is complex. LSEM assists low-income
refugees, immigrants and their U.S. citizen family members and steers them
through a variety of complicated immigration issues. LSEM provides them with a
path to success and self-sufficiency. LSEM's work includes helping individuals
and families apply for permanent residence and citizenship.

Myth Two: Immigrant crime victims have access to the protections provided to
them by law. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Because of myths
surrounding immigration law, access to justice for crime victims nearly is
impossible without the committed advocacy LSEM and other area non-profit
agencies provide on a regular basis.

Myth Three: A marriage-based immigration application always is straightforward.
Sometimes, but not always. In a regular marriage-based immigration application,
a U.S. citizen or permanent resident must initiate the process before his or her
immigrant spouse can receive a green card. In an abusive relationship, the
abuser will refuse to file the appropriate papers as an additional tool of power
and control over the immigrant victim.

Myth Four: Human trafficking does not exist in Missouri. Not true. LSEM has
handled numerous human trafficking cases involving immigrants. The problem
continues to grow statewide and nationwide.

Myth Five: Immigrants always contact law enforcement. Unfortunately, the
opposite is true. It's not unusual, particularly involving human trafficking,
for the victim to be afraid to contact police because the trafficker often has
taken away her immigration papers and has threatened the victim and her family
members. Even though they have been subjected to slave-like conditions, some
trafficking victims are convinced "that's just how things work" in the United
States.

Myth Six: Immigrant crime victims do not need special protections under federal
law. In reality, securing legal immigration status is crucial to a victim
feeling safe enough to cooperate with law enforcement.

That's why the enactment of the bipartisan Violence Against Women Act in 1994
and the Trafficking Victims Protection Act six years later has been essential in
preventing abusers and perpetrators of crime from using their victims'
immigration status as a mechanism of abuse, exploitation and control. The VAWA
allows immigrants married to abusive U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents
to petition for legal status of their own. The TVPA allows victims of several
violent crimes, including domestic violence and human trafficking, to secure
legal immigration status (commonly referred as U and T Visas) when those victims
cooperate with law-enforcement investigations.

At LSEM, we continue to provide a safe harbor for countless Missouri families.
We know that by guiding immigrants through complex immigration laws to become
citizens and permanent residents, their families and our entire community are
put on a stronger economic course.

And that's no myth. It's a rock-solid fact.

---

Rebecca Feldmann is a staff attorney in Legal Services of Eastern Missouri's
Immigration Law Project.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo - Rebecca Feldmann

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'No good outcome' Our view o Two families, one child and an entirely preventable
tragedy.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: 0


At age 5, Carlos Jamison Moser has become the poster child for much of what is
wrong with U.S. immigration laws.

He and his mother, Encarnación Bail Romero, have been wrenched apart by policies
that too often do that to families. Then the system continues to heap tragedies
upon them.

Greene County Circuit Court Judge David Jones ruled Wednesday that Carlos (as
his biological mother calls him) or Jamison (as his would-be adoptive parents
call him) was abandoned by Ms. Bail. Now Melinda and Seth Moser of Carthage,
Mo., who have been caring for him since he was 1, can seek to make his adoption
permanent, though Ms. Bail's lawyers say they intend to appeal.

In 2007, Ms. Bail, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, was among 136
workers arrested in a raid on a poultry processing plant in Butterfield, Mo. She
was charged with various offenses related to using false or stolen Social
Security numbers, which she says she needed to be paid.

The U.S. Supreme Court determined that the "aggravated identity theft" charge to
which Ms. Bail pleaded guilty in 2007 was unconstitutional - but not until she
had spent two years in prison. It will not surprise you to learn that the
poultry plant operators were not charged.

While she was behind bars, federal authorities made no provision for caring for
her infant son. For more than a year, while Carlos was in the state's
jurisdiction, no one tried to reunite him with his mother. No one tried to help
Ms. Bail understand what was happening with her son.

Today Carlos Jamison speaks only English. He has not been allowed to know his
biological mother. Attorneys for the Mosers argue that it's in Carlos' best
interest that he be legally adopted by the Mosers.

But Marcia Zug, a family law specialist at the University of South Carolina Law
School, said Thursday that the best-interest rule shoudn't be a factor.

"In most of these cases, they should not be getting to that analysis," Ms. Zug
said. "The goal of immigration law is to deport parents. If they (immigration
officials) can do this without splitting the families, they're willing."

The best-interest analysis is used when parents are detained or deported without
an opportunity to be reunited with their children, she said. That's when the
courts look at factors such as financial resources, housing location, access to
schools and parenting practices to try to decide who will care for the child.

"What's going on here is family law using immigration law to do what is believed
to be in the child's best interest," Ms. Zug said. "But in most of these cases
they should not be getting to that analysis."

A recent study by the Applied Research Center, "Shattered Families," found that
5,100 children are in foster care in 22 states because their parents were
detained or deported. In the Carlos Jamison case, Ms. Zug said, "There is no
good outcome on this one. There is just no chance."

That's a shame. Shame on Missouri's courts, its child welfare system and on U.S.
immigration officials. This is a tragedy that didn't have to happen.

There could be no greater indication of the need for immigration reform than the
case of Carlos Jamison Moser. Maybe it's not too late for those other 5,099
children.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo of:  Romero

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

'No good outcome' Our view o Two families, one child and an entirely preventable
tragedy.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: 0


At age 5, Carlos Jamison Moser has become the poster child for much of what is
wrong with U.S. immigration laws.

He and his mother, Encarnación Bail Romero, have been wrenched apart by policies
that too often do that to families. Then the system continues to heap tragedies
upon them.

Greene County Circuit Court Judge David Jones ruled Wednesday that Carlos (as
his biological mother calls him) or Jamison (as his would-be adoptive parents
call him) was abandoned by Ms. Bail. Now Melinda and Seth Moser of Carthage,
Mo., who have been caring for him since he was 1, can seek to make his adoption
permanent, though Ms. Bail's lawyers say they intend to appeal.

In 2007, Ms. Bail, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, was among 136
workers arrested in a raid on a poultry processing plant in Butterfield, Mo. She
was charged with various offenses related to using false or stolen Social
Security numbers, which she says she needed to be paid.

The U.S. Supreme Court determined that the "aggravated identity theft" charge to
which Ms. Bail pleaded guilty in 2007 was unconstitutional - but not until she
had spent two years in prison. It will not surprise you to learn that the
poultry plant operators were not charged.

While she was behind bars, federal authorities made no provision for caring for
her infant son. For more than a year, while Carlos was in the state's
jurisdiction, no one tried to reunite him with his mother. No one tried to help
Ms. Bail understand what was happening with her son.

Today Carlos Jamison speaks only English. He has not been allowed to know his
biological mother. Attorneys for the Mosers argue that it's in Carlos' best
interest that he be legally adopted by the Mosers.

But Marcia Zug, a family law specialist at the University of South Carolina Law
School, said Thursday that the best-interest rule shoudn't be a factor.

"In most of these cases, they should not be getting to that analysis," Ms. Zug
said. "The goal of immigration law is to deport parents. If they (immigration
officials) can do this without splitting the families, they're willing."

The best-interest analysis is used when parents are detained or deported without
an opportunity to be reunited with their children, she said. That's when the
courts look at factors such as financial resources, housing location, access to
schools and parenting practices to try to decide who will care for the child.

"What's going on here is family law using immigration law to do what is believed
to be in the child's best interest," Ms. Zug said. "But in most of these cases
they should not be getting to that analysis."

A recent study by the Applied Research Center, "Shattered Families," found that
5,100 children are in foster care in 22 states because their parents were
detained or deported. In the Carlos Jamison case, Ms. Zug said, "There is no
good outcome on this one. There is just no chance."

That's a shame. Shame on Missouri's courts, its child welfare system and on U.S.
immigration officials. This is a tragedy that didn't have to happen.

There could be no greater indication of the need for immigration reform than the
case of Carlos Jamison Moser. Maybe it's not too late for those other 5,099
children.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 12, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. targets Central American gang

BYLINE: By ALICIA A. CALDWELL o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - A Central American street gang known for using machetes to hack and
stab rivals to death became the first street gang to be labeled a transnational
criminal organization Thursday.

The Treasury Department formally designated MS-13, also known as Mara
Salvatrucha, a transnational criminal organization in an attempt to freeze the
ultra-violent gang out of the U.S. financial system and seize potentially
millions of dollars in criminal profits from drug and human smuggling and other
crimes committed in the United States.

The gang was founded by immigrants fleeing El Salvador's civil war more than two
decades ago. Its founders took lessons learned from the brutal conflict to the
streets of Los Angeles as they built a reputation as one of the most ruthless
and sophisticated street gangs in the country, according to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement Special Agent Jason Shatarsky

With as many as 10,000 members in 46 states, the gang has expanded beyond its
initial and local roots, and members are accused of crimes ranging from
kidnapping and murder to drug smuggling and human trafficking.

Shatarsky, an MS-13 expert assigned to ICE's national gang unit, said the group
quickly established itself in Los Angeles before later spreading across the
country. The group's penchants for violence - using a machete to hack a victim
to death or shooting someone in the head in broad daylight for instance -
surprised authorities and rival gangs

The gang now has a large presence in Southern California, Washington, and
Northern Virginia, all areas with substantial Salvadoran populations. And in any
community where the gang operates, he said, its members often prey on their own
community, targeting residents and business owners for extortion, among other
crimes. The gang is also active throughout Central America and in parts of
Mexico and authorities in Europe have reported evidence of MS-13 expanding
operations there.

"They saw a level of violence that hadn't been seen before," Shatarksy said,
adding that as the gang as expanded it has also become more sophisticated than
many of its rivals.

Among the most high profile killings attributed to MS-13 in Virginia was the
2003 slaying of a pregnant teenager who left the gang and became an informer.
Brenda Paz, 17, was stabbed to death and her body was left along the Shenandoah
River.

MS-13 members have also been linked to the 2007 execution style shooting deaths
of three friends in a Newark school yard. One of the victims was also slashed
with a machete before being shot. Six people have been charged in the case.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

More high-skill visas could boost local economy Limitations in Labor Department
program create a logjam for specialized workers. BUSINESS

BYLINE: David Nicklaus dnicklaus@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8213

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: 0


Each April, the Labor Department starts taking applications from employers who
want to hire skilled foreigners under the H-1B visa program. This year, the
quota of 85,000 visas ran out in just 10 weeks.

Until next spring, then, some of the nation's most innovative companies are
stuck in a holding pattern. If, say, Monsanto or Microsoft identifies a
top-notch scientist whom it wants to recruit to lead a new project, it must put
the project on hold - or do it in another country.

That holding pattern, a new Brookings Institution study shows, affects a large
number of employers. Researchers counted at least 325,522 H-1B applications in
2010-2011, and the government granted only about 130,000 visas. (The 85,000 cap
doesn't apply to universities and other research institutions.)

The demand is concentrated in metropolitan areas, including St. Louis. Local
employers filed 2,263 H-1B applications, putting us 24th on a list of "high
demand" areas.

Washington University, Monsanto and St. Louis University were the top local
requesters, but they had a lot of company: 1,261 different St. Louis employers
applied for visas.

For some, the response is, "So what? Hire an American!"

That's not so simple. The H-1B program is designed for skilled occupations where
workers are in short supply, such as computer scientists, biologists and
engineers. The U.S. unemployment rate for all workers with college degrees is
just 4.1 percent, and it's much lower in scientific fields.

"Among people with college degrees, the labor market is a completely different
story than for people with less education," says Rob Paral, a Chicago consultant
who works on community development and immigration issues.

Moreover, Paral says, the type of worker who arrives on an H-1B visa comes with
a multiplier effect. A top researcher might need a half-dozen assistants, and
those jobs don't get created if the scientist stays in his or her home country.

Paral is on a task force set up by Chicago Mayor Rahm Emmanuel, who has pledged
to make his city the most immigrant-friendly in the U.S. "Metro areas face a lot
of challenges, and immigration is a way to improve your economy," Paral says.

That's as true here as it is in Chicago, and it's especially true if the
newcomers are skilled, highly paid workers. A recent study by local economic
development officials found that the average immigrant household here earns
$83,000 a year, 25 percent more than native-born households.

Another finding in the Brookings report should further upset the
hire-Americans-first crowd. H-1B application fees, totaling $1 billion a year,
go into a fund that's supposed to train domestic workers in the skills that
employers want.

The money doesn't go where the skills are needed, though. St. Louis, 24th in
demand for H-1B workers, ranks just 64th in the amount of training funds
received.

None of the money went to Columbus, Ind., home of engine maker Cummins, or
Peoria, Ill., home of Caterpillar. Adjusted for its population, Columbus had the
second-highest H-1B demand in the country, after Silicon Valley.

Current law, then, doesn't give either employers or American workers what they
need. In a sluggish economy, an obvious fix would be to issue more H-1B visas
where they are needed, and concentrate the training funds in high-demand cities.

Unfortunately, such ideas tend to get shouted down in the broader debate over
immigration. And, literally, we're all poorer for it.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Less growth here Immigration's effect is lower in Midwest, with modest gains.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE dmoore@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8125

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: 0


Missouri and Illinois continue to grow but at well below the national rate, with
immigration helping drive growth in other parts of the country while having a
far less dramatic influence on the Midwest.

The U.S. Census Bureau on Tuesday released 2010 population numbers for each
state, the first official count in 10 years.

The greatest growth remains in the Sun Belt, as it has for the last several
years. Meanwhile, the Midwest continues its pattern of showing only moderate
population gains.

In Missouri, the population increased by 7 percent between 2000 and 2010; in
Illinois, the jump was 3.3 percent. By comparison, the U.S. has grown by 9.7
percent.

Immigration factored prominently in states such as Texas and Arizona, where the
populations grew by 21 percent and 25 percent, respectively. Nevada had the
greatest gain, at 35 percent.

The Midwest "is remarkably unleavened by immigration," said Colin Gordon, a
history professor at the University of Iowa and author of the 2008 book "Mapping
Decline," a look at the population drop of St. Louis.

William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution, said Hispanic growth
is responsible for most of the major population spurts in the country.

Nearly two-thirds of the population growth in Texas, and about half in Florida,
Nevada and Arizona, can be attributed to Hispanics, he said. Nationally, about
40 percent of growth is due to immigration, much of that from Hispanics, he
said.

Meanwhile, more African-Americans are migrating to the South, which helped with
population gains in states such as Georgia and the Carolinas, Frey said.

The Midwest will likely continue to grow as immigrants move deeper into the
country, searching for more affordable places to live. But that will be a slow
process, said Todd Swanstrom, a political science professor at the University of
Missouri-St. Louis.

"Being smack dab in the middle of the country, we're not going to get as much
immigration," Swanstrom said.

"Our rate has been increasing because it is relatively affordable, but still we
lag behind."

The Rust Belt has seen a decline for four decades as the region lost industrial
jobs. To make substantial population gains, states such as Missouri and Illinois
must make strides in other job markets such as biotech and alternative energy,
Swanstrom said.

"That will play a role in the future of our growth or whether we lag behind," he
said.

Frey said the Sun Belt states, which include much of the South and Southwest,
have enjoyed healthy growth since the 1970s, partly due to nice weather and, in
cases such as Nevada, cheaper real estate than California.

But the disbursement of new growth is greater now. He points to Nevada as an
example. Although it had the largest percentage of growth over the last decade,
at 35 percent, that figure is down significantly from the 66 percent jump the
state saw from 1990 to 2000.

Along with Nevada, the states with the fastest growth rate were Arizona, Utah,
Idaho and Texas. The only state to lose population was Michigan, dropping 0.6
percent. Other states lagging in growth rate included Rhode Island, Louisiana,
Ohio and New York.

In 2000, the U.S. population was 281,421,906. In 2010, it was 308,745,538,
according to the census.

The growth has slowed in the last decade, at 9.7 percent, compared to 13.2
percent from 1990 to 2000.

As regions, the South and the West picked up the bulk of the population
increase, adding 14.3 million and 8.7 million residents respectively. But the
Northeast and the Midwest also grew, gaining 1.7 million and 2.5 million
respectively.

The state populations made public Tuesday were the first set of numbers to be
released from the results of the 2010 Census. The population numbers are based
on where people were living on April 1.

Beginning in February, the Census Bureau will begin releasing detailed state by
state information, down to the city block.

THE SCORE

With Missouri and Illinois each losing a congressional seat, St. Louis-area
representatives could be affected by redistricting. Here's a look at how they
might fare:

MISSOURI

- Rep. Russ Carnahan, D-St. Louis, 3rd Congressional District: Vulnerable
because of previous attempts to gerrymander the district, and because both
Democrats and Republicans might target key pockets of voters to swallow into
adjacent districts.

- Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, 1st Congressional District: If anything,
his district might gain an even safer Democratic majority, as dwindling city
population will lead to a grab of Democratic voters from Carnahan's city
precincts. Also, the Voting Rights Act limits the ability to make changes to
this district because of a large African-American population.

- Rep. Todd Akin, R-Town and Country, 2nd Congressional District: Could seek to
raid some Republican-leaning precincts from Carnahan's district. The shape of
the district will likely change but stay solidly Republican.

ILLINOIS

- Rep. Jerry Costello, D-Belleville, 12th Congressional District: Unlikely to be
threatened, with Democrats in charge of the remapping process in Illinois;
likely to see his district expand north.

- Rep. John Shimkus, R-Collinsville, 19th Congressional District: His "safe"
district could become even safer for him if Democrats add GOP voters to his
district in order to squeeze out another Republican farther north.

- Rep.-elect Bobby Schilling, R-Rock Island, 17th Congressional District:
Vulnerable if Democrats alter or eliminate his oddly shaped district, which runs
from Rock Island into Madison County.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Disputed adoption gets new hearing Missouri couple got custody of boy whose
mother was detained in immigration raid.

BYLINE: BY NANCY CAMBRIA Nancy.Cambria@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8238 Doug Moore
of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: 0


JEFFERSON CITY - An international custody battle between a Guatemalan mother and
a Missouri couple who adopted her son while she was detained after an
immigration raid will go back to a lower court to be resolved.

In a decision released Tuesday, the Missouri Supreme Court unanimously agreed
that Encarnacion Romero's legal rights as a parent were unfairly terminated when
a lower court failed to take proper legal steps.

The "manifest injustice" resulted in the adoption of the child to Seth and
Melinda Moser, of Carthage, Mo., who have cared for the boy since he was an
infant, the court said.

But the court was passionately split 4-3 on how to resolve who should get
custody of the boy and when.

Most of the judges ruled that a lower court should rehear the case with new
evidence before weighing whether to remove the child from the only parents he
has known for most of his life.

The decision would ensure "that both mother and adoptive parents will have a
full and fair trial that respects mother's fundamental rights and the best
interests of the child," read the 46-page majority decision, written by Judge
Patricia Breckenridge.

But three judges argued that the mother should have her child back immediately.
They lashed out at circuit court proceedings that they said failed to
demonstrate Romero was unfit to keep her child.

Judge Michael Wolff argued that those failures demand she be reunited with the
boy "not in 90 more days or 900 more days, but now."

Romero was arrested and jailed in an immigration raid on a Barry County poultry
plant in May 2007, when her son was an infant. She was later charged with
offenses related to the illegal use of false or stolen Social Security numbers.
While Romero was in jail, her child was passed around among family members
before being adopted privately by the Mosers.

Romero's attorneys argued that she was denied due process because the adoption
took place while she was in jail, where she lacked proper legal representation.
A state appeals court had previously ruled in Romero's favor.

The Supreme Court ruling restores Romero's parental rights, giving legal
standing to seek visitation and full custody. But it also allows the lower court
to again consider taking away those rights.

One of the attorneys for the adoptive parents said Monday that his clients would
continue to press for the termination of Romero's rights in the circuit court.

"I think it's a foregone conclusion that they are going to try and keep their
son," said Richard Schnake, of Springfield.

William Fleischaker, a Joplin-based attorney for Romero, said he was very
pleased with the ruling.

"That's all we ever wanted was to have this lady's day in court to make her
case, and we've got that now," he said. "This time the court will have an
opportunity to hear all of the evidence."

Romero's case drew support from various national and international women's and
immigration rights groups, which filed several briefs to the high court in her
support.

Francisco Villagran de Leon, the Guatemalan ambassador to the United States, who
attended the Supreme Court arguments, offered support to Romero and said
publicly that the case highlighted the ongoing international and national debate
surrounding immigration policy in America.

"We are pleased the court recognized that the mother's rights had not been
respected and the state's own laws and due process were not followed," said
Fernando de la Cerda, minister counselor for the Guatemalan Embassy. "We hope
that in a new court trial, these errors will be corrected so that Ms. Romero
will receive justice and have her parental rights restored."

Anthony E. Rothert, of the ACLU of Eastern Missouri, which filed one of the
briefs in Romero's support, said Tuesday that it was a relief that all of the
judges agreed Romero's due process rights had not been met.

"This never would have happened had she been a citizen," Rothert said. "She was
treated differently by the lower courts."

Rothert said he was confident Romero would retain her parental rights if a lower
court trial were to take place because the court now had a complete record of
evidence indicating that the birth mother had not abandoned her child.

"Some of this information wasn't in the record because she was not adequately
represented, but it's in the record now," he said. "If the adoptive parents
decide to go forward with that, we know what the evidence is going to be, and
they're not going to win."

In the Supreme Court ruling, the majority states that it "makes no suggestion as
to who will or should prevail."

And while the majority faults the lower court for failing to meet investigation
and reporting requirements before denying Romero her parental rights, the
opinion also finds fault with the birth mother.

The high court said Romero failed to act quickly and aggressively enough to
assert her legal rights. And it found substantial evidence in the lower court
record to show she was negligent in seeking to ensure her son had adequate care
while she was incarcerated, demonstrating a "lack of maternal affection for and
involvement with her child."

But Wolff and Laura Denvir Stith wrote two dissenting decisions. Both argued
that there was enough evidence on record for the court to reverse both the
termination of the mother's parental rights and the Mosers' adoption without
requiring a new hearing. Wolff argued that there was no evidence that the birth
mother willfully and continuously neglected the child for six months prior to
the hearing.

Romero is currently living in Carthage awaiting deportation.

One of her attorneys, Omar Riojas, said Tuesday that Romero would immediately
seek visitation rights with her child.

He said he was unable to speak to her about the ruling Tuesday because she was
still at her job at a poultry plant.

"She is working. Providing for herself and her family, and she has living
arrangements and can provide for Carlos," Riojas said.

The judges' passionate written arguments released Tuesday agonized over the
welfare of the child and the fate of all the parents.

"Every member of this court agrees that this case is a travesty in its egregious
procedural errors, its long duration, and its impact on mother, adoptive
parents, and, most importantly, child," the majority ruling stated.

Wolff painted the case in biblical terms, referencing the story of Solomon who
was called upon to resolve a child custody dispute.

"At least Solomon had the option to decree that the child be cut in half," Wolff
wrote in his separate opinion. "All we lesser judges have is the law, and it is
our duty to make sure that the law is obeyed."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo- Romero

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Unusual suspects Our view o FBI needs a review of its contacts with the Somali
community. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: 0


In November, St. Louis resident Mohamud Abdi Yusuf, a Somali immigrant, was
arrested and charged with four counts of providing material support to a
terrorist organization - a serious crime. But there was no great outcry of local
concern, and for good reason.

The amount involved was about $6,000, parceled out and wired abroad over at
least 18 months and possibly longer. The funds allegedly were sent to a Somali
group called al-Shabaab. The U.S. government designated it as a foreign
terrorist organization in 2008, citing its role in acts of international
terrorism.

But the Council on Foreign Relations, a non-partisan think tank, reports that
most analysts believe al-Shabaab's links to al-Qaida are weak. The organization
is better known as a clan-based insurgent force against the provisional
government in war-devastated Somalia.

At worst, then, St. Louis may have been home to a relatively low-level operative
who had been sending small amounts of cash to an Islamist group deeply committed
to one side of a struggle for power in a failed state with no functioning
government.

Richard Callahan, the U.S. Attorney for Western Missouri, offered the public a
comforting perspective. He confirmed at the time of the indictment that "this
type of activity is uncharacteristic of the local Somalian population in the St.
Louis area, which is approximately 2,000."

But even as Mr. Callahan was vouching for St. Louis' Somali community, the FBI
had singled out between 25 and 50 Somali cab drivers for close questioning.
Post-Dispatch reporter Phillip O'Connor laid out the details in a story last
week.

The Somali cabbies were taken, one at a time, to small rooms at the airport
police office at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport. FBI agents asked them
if they'd sent money overseas, a common practice for many immigrants. The agents
requested their cell-phone memory cards and access to their personal computers.

St. Louis immigration attorney Jim Hacking III has worked with the FBI in
outreach efforts to the Muslim community. He criticized the interviews as
violative of the Somali immigrants' rights. "You can't build bridges at the same
time you're scaring . . . people," he said.

Somali immigrants living in St. Louis were driven from their homes by war. They
came to the United States after enduring brutal conditions in refugee camps. To
gain refugee status they had to undergo thorough government background checks -
a process that has been repeated as they have sought to become permanent
residents and as they apply for citizenship.

Local immigrant aid workers say the Somalis live in tight-knit families. They
are widely seen as resourceful, hard working, striving and optimistic. In short,
the Somali community here is a valued addition to this city's rich immigrant
tradition.

The FBI's office in St. Louis has acknowledged that outreach "is not at the
level we would like it to be." The airport questioning is not likely to help.

The best and quickest way to get things where they need to be would be for the
FBI to invite the Department of Justice's Inspector General to conduct an
independent examination of its contacts with the Somali community - including
whether its agents had good causes to question the local Somali cab drivers.

It could improve FBI practices and build trust with local immigrant communities.
Most important, it could strengthen the agency's ability to keep the public
safe.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: 0


Tunisian immigrants are flooding into Italy

Italy on Saturday declared a humanitarian emergency on its southern islet of
Lampedusa and organized airlifts to the mainland as immigrants from Tunisia
continued to stream in. Nearly 3,000 have made their way to the island in just
two days in the wake of recent political unrest in Tunisia that led to the
overthrow of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali.

Pakistan rejects U.S. pressure in Raymond Davis case - Any U.S. pressure on
Islamabad to release Raymond Davis, being held for shooting and killing two
Pakistanis, will be "counterproductive," Foreign Secretary Salman Bashir said
Saturday as the dispute between the two countries over the man's fate reached
new levels. In an apparent step to show its displeasure, the United States on
Saturday postponed a meeting with Pakistani officials to discuss the war in
Afghanistan that was to be held later this month.

19 killed in Kandahar as bombers hit police HQ - A team of Taliban gunmen and
bombers struck provincial police headquarters in the southern city of Kandahar,
Afghanistan, on Saturday, killing at least 19 people and demonstrating a
continued ability to mount complex attacks in a metropolis that has been a
principal focus of Western military efforts.

Editor arrested - The Australian editor of an English-language newspaper that
publishes in Myanmar has been arrested and jailed in what an associate said
Saturday was part of a business dispute. The editor, Ross Dunkley, founded the
newspaper, The Myanmar Times, in 2000, and it is the only publication in the
tightly controlled country to have foreign investment.

6 killed, 37 hurt in Mexico as grenade hits crowded nightclub - Armed men opened
fire and hurled a grenade into a crowded nightclub in Guadalajara early
Saturday, killing six people and wounding at least 37 in a western city whose
former tranquility has been shattered by escalating battles among drug cartels.
The attack in Mexico's second-largest municipality took place just hours after a
shootout between soldiers and presumed cartel gunmen left eight people,
including an innocent driver, dead in the northeastern city of Monterrey.
Monterrey is Mexico's third-largest city.

4 Islamic militants killed in Caucasus - Four Islamic militants and a local
politician have been killed in drive-by shootings, shootouts with police and
accidental bombings in Russia's volatile North Caucasus region, officials said
Saturday.

Cuba releasing 5 political prisoners - Cuba's communist government has agreed to
free another five opposition figures or political prisoners, Catholic church and
dissident sources said in Havana. Four of the prisoners had been sentenced for
"piracy" and "sabotage" were being freed after they had agreed to leave the
country for Spain. The four are not regarded as belonging to Cuba's opposition
movement, but are regarded by dissidents as being political prisoners
nonetheless.

Japan, Australia speed economic accord - Japan and Australia have agreed to
accelerate efforts to conclude a bilateral economic partnership agreement, or
EPA, at an early date. The agreement came when visiting Economy, Trade and
Industry Minister Banri Kaieda met with Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard
in Sydney on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

EDUCATION DIGEST

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: 0


Program for immigrant students honored

ST. LOUIS SCHOOLS - The formation of a school for immigrant students has earned
accolades from a national education publication. The American School Board
Journal has awarded the St. Louis Public School District's Special
Administrative Board the MAGNA Award for establishing the International Welcome
School.

The school, opened in 2009, helps immigrant students develop English language
skills and get acclimated to U.S. schools. Currently, the school serves
approximately 230 students, speaking approximately 17 languages from more than
24 countries.

The 2011 winners are highlighted in a special supplement to the April issue of
the publication and will be formally recognized April 9 at a National School
Boards Association convention.

CROSSROADS SCHOOL > Student wins poetry contest - Terry Watkins, a senior at
Crossroads College Prep School has won the Missouri Poetry Out Loud Competition,
held last week in Jefferson City. She now moves on to the national competition
in Washington, on April 29. At the national finals, winners will receive $50,000
total in scholarships and school stipends, with a $20,000 college scholarship
for the Poetry Out Loud National Champion.

The competition encourages poetry recitation. Watkins has competed with the poem
"The New World" by Amiri Baraka.

ST. JUSTIN MARTYR SCHOOL > Teacher wins national award - Mary O'Connell,
third-grade teacher at St. Justin Martyr School in St. Louis will receive the
2011 Distinguished Teacher Award from the National Catholic Educational
Association.

O'Connell will be honored at an awards ceremony at the association's convention
next month in New Orleans.

She is one of 12 teachers who will receive the association's top award for
teachers this year.

WALK TO SCHOOL > Districts promote walking - The organization Trailnet will be
working with schools in the Maplewood-Richmond Heights and Webster Groves School
Districts throughout April to encourage kids to walk to school. Trailnet will
host a kickoff event at each school, where parents can join their children on
the walk to school. Kids who walk will be eligible for incentives and prizes.
These events will serve as the kick-off for the spring season of weekly Walk to
School days.

CAMPUS ENTREPRENEURS > Two Missouri teams compete for $1 million in prizes -
Teams from Washington University and the University of Missouri are among 42
competitors in the Rice Business Plan Competition, which will be awarded more
than $1 million in prizes to aid new start-up businesses at the 11th annual
competition at Rice University on April 14-16.

The finalists were selected from more than 500 entries. The teams will have 15
minutes to present business plans and the top six competitors will vie for the
grand prize valued at more than $400,000.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Mound City Money PERSONAL FINANCE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G3

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: 0


Highlights from David Nicklaus' blog about St. Louis business.

STLtoday.com/business/columns/david-nicklaus

Don't meet me in St. Louis

As we wrote in the "Can St. Louis Compete?" series, attracting immigrant
entrepreneurs could help jump-start the region's economy. According to a new
ranking by urban futurist Joel Kotkin and demographer Wendell Cox, St. Louis is
a long way from tapping into that potential.

Kotkin and Cox, with the help of researcher Erika Ozuna, ranked the 52 biggest
U.S. metro areas based on their attractiveness to minority entrepreneurs.
Kotkin's article (available at www.newgeography.com) does not divulge their
criteria, but it's clear that they give some weight to immigration. He writes,
for instance:

"The clear advantage with minorities, particularly immigrant minorities, lies in
their own self-selection. Risk-takers by the very act of emigration, they are
more likely to start small firms than other Americans. ... Overall the share of
immigrants among new entrepreneurs has expanded from 13.4% in 1996 to nearly 30%
this year."

St. Louis ranks 37th, or in the bottom one-third of the 52 cities. We have good
company near the bottom: New York is 39th, San Diego 48th, Minneapolis 49th and
Chicago 50th. Some cities ranked poorly because they're too expensive, while
others just don't have much immigration going on. Kotkin quotes attorney Richard
Herman talking about Cleveland, but he could just as easily be describing St.
Louis, where only 4 percent of the residents are foreign-born:

"The rust belt cities don't tend to welcome newcomers," Herman tells Kotkin.
"The infrastructure, the sentiment is not there. But you can't get around it. We
have to change our culture if want to change our situation."

The top five cities for minority entrepreneurs, in these experts' estimation,
are Atlanta, Baltimore, Nashville, Houston and Miami.

Fed's Bullard eyes exit - James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis, was the Federal Reserve's second-most influential policymaker last
year (after Chairman Ben Bernanke) according to a market analysis by
Macroeconomic Advisers. So, when he signals that a policy change might be in the
offing, folks pay attention. And in two European speeches last week, Bullard
emphasized that it's time to talk about an exit from the Fed's extraordinarily
easy monetary policy.

In London Wednesday, Bullard said the U.S. central bank can't continue
indefinitely with a quantitative easing policy on top of near-zero interest
rates. He added:

"The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins, will still leave
unprecedented policy accommodation on the table. The FOMC (Federal Open Market
Committee) may not be willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy. Exit strategy was widely discussed in
2010, and that debate will likely revive during 2011."

Bullard made almost identical comments in Prague on Tuesday.

In his London talk, Bullard said that growth prospects in the U.S. are
improving, but that uncertainty is high because of turmoil in the Middle East
and North Africa, the earthquake in Japan and fiscal problems in parts of
Europe. He said "the most likely prospect" is that those situations are resolved
"without becoming global macroeconomic shocks."

SAVVIS CEO got $12 million - James Ousley earned $12.2 million in his first year
as Savvis chief executive, with the majority of his pay coming in stock and
options grants the day after he took the job.

Ousley, a longtime Savvis board member, became interim CEO in January 2010 and
accepted the job permanently two months later. His signing bonus amounted to
$4.6 million worth of options and $3.7 million worth of stock. Ousley also got
three other stock grants during the year, valued at a total of $3.2 million. He
earned $448,109 in salary in 2010.

Ousley's perquisites, disclosed in a proxy statement, included $41,133 of
housing expenses, and $32,493 to cover travel between St. Louis and his home in
Arizona.

Savvis is a data center and technology-services company based in Town and
Country, Mo.

Panera's CEO earned $2 million - William Moreton became chief executive of
Panera Bread in May 2010, but he earned just half as much last year as his
predecessor, Ronald Shaich.

Panera's proxy statement, filed Wednesday, lists Moreton's total pay as $2.0
million. Shaich, who remains chairman, made $3.9 million.

Moreton's salary was boosted to $618,000, the same as Shaich's, when he became
CEO. Shaich's salary has been reduced to $525,000 for fiscal 2011. Both men got
2010 bonuses that were 149 percent of their target levels, but that amounted to
$920,820 for Shaich and $749,707 for Moreton. Shaich also got a $1.4 million
payout under a long-term incentive plan that was approved in 2008. And both men
received grants of Panera stock - $926,882 for Shaich, $675,830 for Moreton.

Reliance CEO got $308,309 - Allan Ivie, who joined Reliance Bancshares as chief
executive last June, earned $308,309 in total compensation during his first
half-year in the job. His annual salary is set at $425,000, so he earned
$215,000 during 2010, plus a $92,000 stock grant.

Former Chief Executive Jerry von Rohr, now a vice chairman, earned a total of
$347,374 last year. His salary was $309,631, and his perquisites included a
company car, club dues and mobile-phone expenses.

Reliance received $42 million in federal assistance under the Treasury's
Troubled Asset Relief Program, and it decided in February to stop paying the
Treasury's 5 percent dividend. Banks that accepted TARP money are subject to
certain limits on executive pay, including a prohibition against paying cash
bonuses.

Frontenac-based bank reported a net loss of $45 million last year, and its share
price fell 30 percent.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Mound City Money

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G3

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: 0


Highlights from David Nicklaus' blog about St. Louis business.

STLtoday.com/business/columns/david-nicklaus

Don't meet me in St. Louis

As we wrote in the "Can St. Louis Compete?" series, attracting immigrant
entrepreneurs could help jump-start the region's economy. According to a new
ranking by urban futurist Joel Kotkin and demographer Wendell Cox, St. Louis is
a long way from tapping into that potential.

Kotkin and Cox, with the help of researcher Erika Ozuna, ranked the 52 biggest
U.S. metro areas based on their attractiveness to minority entrepreneurs.
Kotkin's article (available at www.newgeography.com) does not divulge their
criteria, but it's clear that they give some weight to immigration. He writes,
for instance:

"The clear advantage with minorities, particularly immigrant minorities, lies in
their own self-selection. Risk-takers by the very act of emigration, they are
more likely to start small firms than other Americans. ... Overall the share of
immigrants among new entrepreneurs has expanded from 13.4% in 1996 to nearly 30%
this year."

St. Louis ranks 37th, or in the bottom one-third of the 52 cities. We have good
company near the bottom: New York is 39th, San Diego 48th, Minneapolis 49th and
Chicago 50th. Some cities ranked poorly because they're too expensive, while
others just don't have much immigration going on. Kotkin quotes attorney Richard
Herman talking about Cleveland, but he could just as easily be describing St.
Louis, where only 4 percent of the residents are foreign-born:

"The rust belt cities don't tend to welcome newcomers," Herman tells Kotkin.
"The infrastructure, the sentiment is not there. But you can't get around it. We
have to change our culture if want to change our situation."

The top five cities for minority entrepreneurs, in these experts' estimation,
are Atlanta, Baltimore, Nashville, Houston and Miami.

Fed's Bullard eyes exit - James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis, was the Federal Reserve's second-most influential policymaker last
year (after Chairman Ben Bernanke) according to a market analysis by
Macroeconomic Advisers. So, when he signals that a policy change might be in the
offing, folks pay attention. And in two European speeches last week, Bullard
emphasized that it's time to talk about an exit from the Fed's extraordinarily
easy monetary policy.

In London Wednesday, Bullard said the U.S. central bank can't continue
indefinitely with a quantitative easing policy on top of near-zero interest
rates. He added:

"The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins, will still leave
unprecedented policy accommodation on the table. The FOMC (Federal Open Market
Committee) may not be willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy. Exit strategy was widely discussed in
2010, and that debate will likely revive during 2011."

Bullard made almost identical comments in Prague on Tuesday.

In his London talk, Bullard said that growth prospects in the U.S. are
improving, but that uncertainty is high because of turmoil in the Middle East
and North Africa, the earthquake in Japan and fiscal problems in parts of
Europe. He said "the most likely prospect" is that those situations are resolved
"without becoming global macroeconomic shocks."

SAVVIS CEO got $12 million - James Ousley earned $12.2 million in his first year
as Savvis chief executive, with the majority of his pay coming in stock and
options grants the day after he took the job.

Ousley, a longtime Savvis board member, became interim CEO in January 2010 and
accepted the job permanently two months later. His signing bonus amounted to
$4.6 million worth of options and $3.7 million worth of stock. Ousley also got
three other stock grants during the year, valued at a total of $3.2 million. He
earned $448,109 in salary in 2010.

Ousley's perquisites, disclosed in a proxy statement, included $41,133 of
housing expenses, and $32,493 to cover travel between St. Louis and his home in
Arizona.

Savvis is a data center and technology-services company based in Town and
Country, Mo.

Panera's CEO earned $2 million - William Moreton became chief executive of
Panera Bread in May 2010, but he earned just half as much last year as his
predecessor, Ronald Shaich.

Panera's proxy statement, filed Wednesday, lists Moreton's total pay as $2.0
million. Shaich, who remains chairman, made $3.9 million.

Moreton's salary was boosted to $618,000, the same as Shaich's, when he became
CEO. Shaich's salary has been reduced to $525,000 for fiscal 2011. Both men got
2010 bonuses that were 149 percent of their target levels, but that amounted to
$920,820 for Shaich and $749,707 for Moreton. Shaich also got a $1.4 million
payout under a long-term incentive plan that was approved in 2008. And both men
received grants of Panera stock - $926,882 for Shaich, $675,830 for Moreton.

Reliance CEO got $308,309 - Allan Ivie, who joined Reliance Bancshares as chief
executive last June, earned $308,309 in total compensation during his first
half-year in the job. His annual salary is set at $425,000, so he earned
$215,000 during 2010, plus a $92,000 stock grant.

Former Chief Executive Jerry von Rohr, now a vice chairman, earned a total of
$347,374 last year. His salary was $309,631, and his perquisites included a
company car, club dues and mobile-phone expenses.

Reliance received $42 million in federal assistance under the Treasury's
Troubled Asset Relief Program, and it decided in February to stop paying the
Treasury's 5 percent dividend. Banks that accepted TARP money are subject to
certain limits on executive pay, including a prohibition against paying cash
bonuses.

Frontenac-based bank reported a net loss of $45 million last year, and its share
price fell 30 percent.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: 0


Jurors acquit Cuban militant, former CIA operative

After deliberating for three hours, a jury of seven women and five men acquitted
Luis Posada Carriles on Friday on all 11 charges of lying to immigration
officials about how he entered the U.S. in 2005 and his alleged role in bombings
in Cuba in 1997.

The acquittal closes a chapter in the long Posada legal saga in the United
States in which federal authorities have been thwarted several times in efforts
to deport him or convict him of a crime. Since Posada, 83, was first arrested by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Miami on May 17, 2005,
federal efforts to remove the former CIA operative have failed.

Suspect in Bellagio robbery to stand trial - A man suspected of robbing the
Bellagio casino of $1.5 million in gambling chips and later selling some to an
undercover police officer will stand trial on multiple felony counts, a Las
Vegas justice of the peace ruled Friday. Anthony Carleo, 29, is accused of being
the helmet-wearing "Biker Bandit" who stormed into the casino in December,
brandished a gun, demanded chips from a craps dealer and zoomed off on a black
motorcycle.

Anti-abortion letter leads to federal suit - Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit
Thursday accusing Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan., of sending a threatening
letter to a physician who is considering opening an abortion practice in
Wichita. The lawsuit, filed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act,
said Dillard's letter was an effort to intimidate physician Mila Means.

Florida lawmaker says: Pull up your pants - Florida state Sen. Gary Siplin has
been trying for years to get kids to pull up their trousers. All school
districts in Central Florida and others throughout the state already have dress
codes that prohibit students from showing off their underwear - or worse. But
Siplin, a Democrat, wants the force of state law behind it.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

digest

BYLINE: - Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.|||

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: 0


Jurors acquit Cuban militant, former CIA operative

After deliberating for three hours, a jury of seven women and five men acquitted
Luis Posada Carriles on Friday on all 11 charges of lying to immigration
officials about how he entered the U.S. in 2005 and his alleged role in bombings
in Cuba in 1997.

The acquittal closes a chapter in the long Posada legal saga in the United
States in which federal authorities have been thwarted several times in efforts
to deport him or convict him of a crime. Since Posada, 83, was first arrested by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Miami on May 17, 2005,
federal efforts to remove the former CIA operative have failed.

Suspect in Bellagio robbery to stand trial - A man suspected of robbing the
Bellagio casino of $1.5 million in gambling chips and later selling some to an
undercover police officer will stand trial on multiple felony counts, a Las
Vegas justice of the peace ruled Friday. Anthony Carleo, 29, is accused of being
the helmet-wearing "Biker Bandit" who stormed into the casino in December,
brandished a gun, demanded chips from a craps dealer and zoomed off on a black
motorcycle.

Anti-abortion letter leads to federal suit - Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit
Thursday accusing Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan., of sending a threatening
letter to a physician who is considering opening an abortion practice in
Wichita. The lawsuit, filed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act,
said Dillard's letter was an effort to intimidate physician Mila Means.

Florida lawmaker says: Pull up your pants - Florida state Sen. Gary Siplin has
been trying for years to get kids to pull up their trousers. All school
districts in Central Florida and others throughout the state already have dress
codes that prohibit students from showing off their underwear - or worse. But
Siplin, a Democrat, wants the force of state law behind it.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

nation digest

BYLINE: - Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.|||

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: 0


Jurors acquit Cuban militant, former CIA operative

After deliberating for three hours, a jury of seven women and five men acquitted
Luis Posada Carriles on Friday on all 11 charges of lying to immigration
officials about how he entered the U.S. in 2005 and his alleged role in bombings
in Cuba in 1997.

The acquittal closes a chapter in the long Posada legal saga in the United
States in which federal authorities have been thwarted several times in efforts
to deport him or convict him of a crime. Since Posada, 83, was first arrested by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Miami on May 17, 2005,
federal efforts to remove the former CIA operative have failed.

Suspect in Bellagio robbery to stand trial - A man suspected of robbing the
Bellagio casino of $1.5 million in gambling chips and later selling some to an
undercover police officer will stand trial on multiple felony counts, a Las
Vegas justice of the peace ruled Friday. Anthony Carleo, 29, is accused of being
the helmet-wearing "Biker Bandit" who stormed into the casino in December,
brandished a gun, demanded chips from a craps dealer and zoomed off on a black
motorcycle.

Anti-abortion letter leads to federal suit - Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit
Thursday accusing Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan., of sending a threatening
letter to a physician who is considering opening an abortion practice in
Wichita. The lawsuit, filed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act,
said Dillard's letter was an effort to intimidate physician Mila Means.

Florida lawmaker says: Pull up your pants - Florida state Sen. Gary Siplin has
been trying for years to get kids to pull up their trousers. All school
districts in Central Florida and others throughout the state already have dress
codes that prohibit students from showing off their underwear - or worse. But
Siplin, a Democrat, wants the force of state law behind it.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 10, 2011 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

digest

BYLINE: BylinePD - Read full versions of these stories and the latest national
news at stltoday.com/news/national.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: 0


Jurors acquit Cuban militant, ex-CIA operative

After deliberating for three hours, a jury of seven women and five men acquitted
Luis Posada Carriles on Friday on all 11 charges of lying to immigration
officials about how he entered the United States in 2005 and his alleged role in
bombings in Cuba in 1997.

The acquittal closes a chapter in the long Posada legal saga in the United
States in which federal authorities have been thwarted several times in efforts
to deport him or convict him of a crime. Since Posada, 83, was first arrested by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Miami on May 17, 2005,
federal efforts to remove the former CIA operative have failed.

Suspect in casino robbery to stand trial - A man suspected of robbing the
Bellagio casino of $1.5 million in gambling chips and later selling some to an
undercover police officer will stand trial on multiple felony counts, a Las
Vegas justice of the peace ruled Friday.

Anthony Carleo, 29, is accused of being the helmet-wearing "Biker Bandit" who
stormed into the casino in December, brandished a gun, demanded chips from a
craps dealer and zoomed off on a black motorcycle.

Anti-abortion letter leads to federal suit - Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit
Thursday accusing Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan., of sending a threatening
letter to a physician who is considering opening an abortion practice in
Wichita.

The lawsuit, filed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, said
Dillard's letter was an effort to intimidate physician Mila Means.

Florida lawmaker says: Pull up your pants - Florida state Sen. Gary Siplin has
been trying for years to get youths to pull up their trousers. All school
districts in Central Florida and others throughout the state already have dress
codes that prohibit students from showing off their underwear - or worse. But
Siplin, a Democrat, wants the force of state law behind it.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

St. Louisan's Troubles linger despite peace STL SUNDAY

BYLINE: Bill McClellan o bmcclellan@post-dispatch.com, 314-340-8143

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: 0


In July 2009, Matthew Morrison applied to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services for permission to visit Northern Ireland. To be more accurate, he was
seeking permission to be able to return to this country after leaving it.

He was required to pay a $305 processing fee. The government cashed his check on
July 8, 2009.

He is still waiting for a response. What could be so confusing about his case?

Chester Moyer, field office director for the local office of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, is familiar with it. So are regular
readers of this column.

Morrison grew up in Derry. He was Roman Catholic. In January 1972, he marched in
a civil rights demonstration. British soldiers fired on the demonstrators,
killing 13. The day became known as Bloody Sunday.

Morrison joined the Irish Republican Army, which was seeking to reunite Northern
Ireland with the Republic of Ireland. In 1975, he was arrested for trying to
shoot a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary. He was released after serving
10 years in Long Kesh prison.

He married an American woman with whom he had corresponded while in prison. He
came here on a tourist visa and overstayed that visa. He paid taxes using a tax
number the IRS issued him. Still, he was essentially underground.

In November 1991, he asked for permanent residency status. The request was
denied, and deportation proceedings began.

It was a long process and often looked bleak. The IRA was considered a terrorist
organization.

Actually, the IRA compared itself to the Spear of the Nation, the armed wing of
the African National Congress. I can remember Gerald Kelly making that
comparison. He was in St. Louis visiting Morrison. He said the IRA saw South
Africa as a template for the future, a model of how to get from armed struggle
to governance.

Kelly visited St. Louis in 1999. By then, the world had changed. The Good Friday
Peace Accord had been signed a year earlier. The IRA had indeed gone into
governance. In fact, Kelly, who had done time for a bombing in London, had been
elected to the new Northern Assembly.

Meanwhile, as part of the peace process, the U.S. had agreed to stop the
deportation proceedings against Morrison and five other former members of the
IRA.

Morrison was allowed to visit Northern Ireland in 2000. That is, he was given
permission to return.

Nine years later, he applied for permission again. What had he done in those
nine years? He's a registered nurse. For most of the nine years, he has worked
with children with mental problems.

In short, he has worked, paid taxes and avoided trouble.

So why hasn't he been able to get an answer on his request to travel?

By the way, the request was made correctly. Morrison has a lawyer, Suzanne
Brown. She has a thick file on the case. She has written letters to Moyer and to
people in Washington.

She told me she cannot get an answer. Not a yes, not a no, and certainly not an
explanation for what is now a 23-month wait.

I have dealt with Moyer over the years. I called him and left a message. The
next day, I received a call from Tim Counts, a spokesperson for the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. I asked why Morrison can't get an answer.

Counts said he could not comment on a specific case. He cited concerns for
privacy.

Privacy? Morrison is very open about his past. He gives lectures about Northern
Ireland. He was recently on a panel at Case Western Reserve University's law
school. He had his lawyer give me his records. He is not concerned about his
privacy.

"Our policy remains that we don't discuss individual cases," Counts said.

Generally speaking then, if a person makes a request in July 2009, how long
should he have to wait for a response?

"We process applications as expeditiously as possible, but each application is
adjudicated on its individual merits and sometimes an application takes
significantly longer than typical," Counts said.

Like indefinitely?

"Don't finish my thoughts," Counts said.

To the people of Northern Ireland, the Troubles are over. A peace accord has
been signed. Protestants and Catholics share power.

But for us, the war never ends. The past always trumps the present.

"What kind of message are we sending to the people of the Middle East when we
won't accept peace?" I asked Counts.

"I can't speculate on that," he said.

I can.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 13, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

WORLD DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: 0


Thousands in Morocco march for democracy

Thousands marched Sunday through Casablanca, Morocco's largest city, calling for
greater democracy and an end to corruption even as the king prepares to announce
new constitutional amendments to address calls for reform.

There was only a light police presence blocking off traffic as about 6,000
protesters flowed through the wide streets of downtown Casablanca chanting
slogans against the government. Past demonstrations had been violently
dispersed. The march showed the continuing viability of the February 20
pro-democracy movement, even as the king's own constitutional reform process
seeks to co-opt many of their demands.

Mexico finds 213 migrants in truck - A Mexican immigration official says 213
Central and South American migrants were discovered crammed into a
tractor-trailer with no food or water in the southern border state of Chiapas.
The federal immigration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
Sunday that Brazilians, Guatemalans and El Salvadorans were among those
apprehended.

Chilean volcano still threatens - Chilean officials ordered most residents
already evacuated from homes near an erupting volcano to stay in shelters and
with family and friends Sunday because of the threat of deadly landslides. The
ash spread across the Pacific, prompting authorities to suspend flights in
Australia and New Zealand.

Libya, rebels issue conflicting reports - The Libyan government said Sunday that
it had reopened a major highway from the capital to the Tunisian border after
routing a rebel attack on the road near the strategic town of Zawiya. But
opposition spokesmen said fierce fighting continued in Zawiya, the largest city
between the capital and the Tunisian border and home of the nation's principal
functioning refinery.

Jordan's king OKs electing Cabinet - Jordan's king bowed to popular demands for
an elected Cabinet on Sunday but gave no timetable, saying that sudden change
could lead to "chaos and unrest." So far the country has averted the turmoil
seen in other Arab nations. It was the first time that King Abdullah II has made
such a concession to Jordanians, who have taken to the streets for six months to
demand a greater political say in this key U.S. Arab ally.

Clinton honors embassy bombing victims - Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton, in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Sunday, honored those killed in the
bombings of the U.S. embassies there and in Kenya in 1998. She spoke a day after
the authorities confirmed the death of the feared al-Qaida operative who
masterminded the attacks.

"We have not forgotten your losses," Clinton told diplomats and employees at the
embassy, built after the attacks, which killed more than 200 people, including
12 Americans.

U.N. is pulling staff from Sudan - The United Nations has begun pulling its
nonessential staff from the restive Sudanese state of Southern Kordofan, even as
it sends more peacekeepers there to try to protect civilians, officials said
Sunday. Meanwhile, the Sudanese president, Omar al-Bashir, met with his southern
counterpart, Salva Kiir, in Ethiopia, alongside Ethiopia's president and Thabo
Mbeki, the former president of South Africa, to begin talks aimed at resolving a
border dispute as Sudan's north and south split into separate countries next
month.

Iranians mark disputed election; hunger striker dies - Protests were held Sunday
- the second anniversary of Iran's disputed presidential elections - by
opposition supporters who clashed with police and security forces. But the
protests were overshadowed by the sudden death of Iranian dissident and
journalist Reza Hoda Saber, reportedly of a heart attack, while he was on a
hunger strike.

Street vendor dispute spreads in China - Authorities in a town near the large
southern metropolis of Guangzhou arrested 25 people after a dispute between
street vendors and security guards expanded into a confrontation with
bottle-and-brick throwing onlookers, state news agencies reported Sunday.

The protest, in Xintang in south coastal China, is the latest in a series of
violent protests that have struck Chinese cities in recent days. Chinese
authorities recorded 127,000 "mass incidents" last year, but most are too small
to gain wide notice.

Hamas rejection bodes ill for unity talks - Ceremoniously announced last month,
reconciliation between the two rival Palestinian leaderships - the secular Fatah
and the Islamist Hamas - hit a serious snag Sunday. Hamas rejected Fatah's
proposal that internationally respected economist Salam Fayyad remain prime
minister.

The announcement boded poorly for a new round of unity talks set to begin this
week.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Lincoln County awaits new federal inmates No decision from Marshals Service
after escape spurred upgrades.

BYLINE: BY SUSAN WEICH o sweich@post-dispatch.com > 636-255-7207 Mark
Schlinkmann of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: 0


TROY, MO. - Immigration prisoners have returned to the Lincoln County Jail, but
a lucrative deal with the U.S. Marshals Service remains inactive after an escape
eight months ago.

"They never took our contract away, but obviously it doesn't really matter if we
don't have the prisoners - it's basically the same thing," said Kurt Venneman of
the Lincoln County Sheriff's Department. "We're trying to talk to them so we
know one way or the other."

Rob O'Connor of the Marshals Service said, "We haven't made a final decision" on
whether to resume housing prisoners at the jail. He said no inspection of the
renovated facility had been planned.

In November, two federal prisoners escaped from the jail through a drop ceiling,
and a short time later, all 34 federal prisoners at the jail under a
cell-leasing program were moved to other facilities.

Since then, Lincoln County officials say they have completed $150,000 in
improvements that include a new camera system, replacing several rows of ceiling
tile with steel and placing razor wire on the roof.

Representatives with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agreed to return
their prisoners to Lincoln County after touring the facility the first week of
June. The immigration agency had removed four prisoners after the jail break.

Lincoln County officials have relied on contracts with the federal government
since at least 2002. It has been one of 13 local facilities that house
approximately 400 inmates for the Marshals Service.

In the past, as many as 70 federal prisoners have been held in Lincoln County at
one time, boosting county coffers by more than $1 million a year.

Lincoln County's most recent contract with the federal government, signed in
August 2009, called for a per-diem rate of $55 per prisoner.

Venneman said so far the county has not had to lay off or reduce the pay of any
of the department's 76 employees because of the loss of revenue.

"But once line items start going over our budget, then we're going to have to
figure out what to do," he said.

The two inmates who escaped were recaptured within a few days. One, John Wesley
Jones, pleaded guilty to the multimillion-dollar ATM Solutions robbery in St.
Louis. The other, Corey Durand Cross, was not involved in the ATM heist.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: 0


Geithner will stay as Treasury secretary

Timothy Geithner has told President Barack Obama that he will remain on the job
as Treasury secretary. The Treasury Department released a statement Sunday
saying Geithner had informed the president of his decision to remain in the
administration. Geithner is the only remaining top official on Obama's original
economics team.

Also Sunday, Geithner criticized the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's,
which he said showed "terrible judgment" in lowering the U.S. government's
credit rating. Interviewed on CNBC, Geither said that U.S. Treasury securities
were just as safe now as they were before S&P announced its downgrade. He
predicted that China and investors would remain strong purchasers of U.S.
government debt.

Deported Polish woman returning - A Polish woman will step off an airplane in
Chicago this afternoon with a legal visa in her hand, coming back to live in the
United States, four years after her deportation sundered her family, in a rare
case of the return of an immigrant who was expelled.

The woman, Janina Wasilewski, was deported in 2007 after living for 18 years in
the Chicago suburbs. Several applications she had filed to become a legal
resident became hopelessly tangled in the immigration courts and were finally
denied. She left behind her husband, Tony, also a Polish immigrant, but with his
agreement she took their son, Brian, a U.S. citizen, who was 6. The Wasilewski
family became one of the nation's most visible examples of the impact of
deportation,

No Child Left Behind law to change - Secretary of Education Arne Duncan has
announced that he will unilaterally override the centerpiece requirement of the
No Child Left Behind school accountability law, which states that all students
be proficient in math and reading by 2014.

Duncan said he was acting because Congress had failed to rewrite the law, which
he called a "slow-motion train wreck." He will waive the law's proficiency
requirements for states that have adopted their own testing and accountability
programs and are making other strides toward better schools, he said.

8 killed in Ohio - An Ohio man apparently angry with his girlfriend gunned down
two people outside a home and two more in a car Sunday morning, then chased down
another victim in a shooting rampage that left eight dead, including the gunman,
who was shot by police, authorities and witnesses said. Two others were wounded,
Copley, Ohio, police Chief Michael Mier said. The names and ages of the victims
and the gunman weren't being released until family members were told.

4 found fatally shot in Maryland home - The mother of a Maryland man found shot
to death along with a woman and two teenagers called police after receiving a
disturbing text message from him, and as officers arrived at the home to check
on the family Sunday, they heard a single gunshot, authorities said.

Neighbors said a couple and their two teenage children lived in the home in
Brooklyn Park, Md., where officers found the four bodies. Anne Arundel County
police did not immediately identify the people, though Lt. J.D. Batten did
confirm a man, woman and two children were found.

Suspect in policeman's shooting left suicide note - An officer shot in the face
in an apparently unprovoked attack died Sunday, and investigators found a
suicide note left by the suspect who fired the gun, San Diego's police chief
said.

Jeremy Henwood, a four-year veteran of the department, died a day after being
shot while sitting alone in his patrol car at an intersection, Chief William
Lansdowne said.

The armed suspect, Dejon Marquee White, 23, was tracked down by police after the
attack Saturday and shot to death by officers as he tried to avoid arrest. White
was a suspect in another shooting earlier Saturday.

30,000 college students are kicked off food aid - Michigan has removed about
30,000 college students from its food stamp program, saving about $75 million a
year, says Human Services Director Maura Corrigan. Federal rules don't allow
most college students to collect food stamps, but Michigan had created its own
rules that made nearly all students eligible, said Brian Rooney, Corrigan's
deputy director.

- Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at
stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: 0


Federal judge rules against health mandate

President Barack Obama's plan to require individual Americans to obtain health
insurance or pay a penalty, a key pillar of his health care legislation, is
unconstitutional, a federal judge ruled Tuesday in Harrisburg, Pa. U.S. District
Judge Christopher C. Conner said in a 53-page opinion that the federal
government's power to regulate commerce did not give it the authority to compel
individuals to purchase products against their will. The case is one of several
dozen lawsuits playing out in various jurisdictions challenging the
constitutionality of the health care law.

Immigrant crackdown - The administration of President Barack Obama is cracking
down on immigrants in the U.S. who have overstayed the terms of their visas by
using a system that automatically checks multiple national security, immigration
and law enforcement databases at the same time, a senior Homeland Security
Department official said.

Funding for FAA, highways passes in House - The House of Representatives on
Tuesday quickly and unanimously passed a bill temporarily extending funding for
the Federal Aviation Administration and federal highway programs. Funding for
more than a million federal employees and construction jobs was set to expire by
Oct. 1.

Deficit panel gets warning - Members of the bipartisan deficit-cutting
congressional "supercommittee" tasked with finding $1.5 trillion in deficit
reduction by Thanksgiving got a sobering assessment Tuesday of the daunting task
ahead of them. The head of the Congressional Budget Office warned that "the
nation cannot continue to sustain the spending programs and policies of the past
with the tax revenues it has been accustomed to paying," CBO Director Douglas
Elemendorf told the 12-member committee.

Too many secrets, judges say - Federal judges who set the rules for U.S. courts
say too many civil lawsuits are being kept from public view and are urging their
colleagues to seal cases only in extraordinary circumstances. Chief Judge David
Sentelle of the federal appeals court in Washington said the Judicial Conference
voted unanimously Tuesday to adopt a policy aimed at limiting the number of
sealed civil cases. Sentelle said judges "should not do something in secret"
without compelling reasons.

Baggage fees hit $783.7 million - U.S. airlines collected baggage fees of about
$783.7 million in the first three months of the year. That's up nearly 2 percent
from the $768.5 million they collected in the same period last year.

Priest is summoned - A Roman Catholic priest nationally known for his
anti-abortion activism is being accused by his bishop of failing to account for
millions of dollars in donations. Bishop Patrick Zurek of Amarillo, Texas, is
ordering the Rev. Frank Pavone to stop his work outside the diocese and return
to Amarillo for "prayer and reflection".

- Read the latest international news at stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

St. Ann police defend driver arrests Officers, city deny profiling, will meet
Tuesday with concerned groups.

BYLINE: BY JENNIFER MANN o jmann@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8315

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. ANN - Drivers who are stopped in St. Ann without a license will get no break
from police, who say the violation is not only cause for arrest but deserving of
a call to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement if the person can't provide
any other form of documentation.

Chief Robert Schrader said Thursday that the hard-line approach - one he
acknowledges is rare - is used for everyone, regardless of race or ethnicity.

But the practice has drawn the attention of the immigrant advocacy groups and
the American Civil Liberties Union of Eastern Missouri, who worry that St. Ann
police are targeting Hispanic drivers to check their residency status, a
controversial tactic that has received national debate.

They point to the latest racial profiling report from the state attorney
general's office, which shows that although Hispanics are not stopped at a
disproportionate rate in St. Ann, once pulled over they are much more likely to
have their vehicles searched and to be arrested than a white person. (The 2010
figures showed them more than seven times more likely than whites to be searched
or arrested.)

"We find (the arrest) is used as an excuse to run them through the ICE
database," said Vanessa Crawford, executive director of Missouri Immigrant and
Refugee Advocates. "St. Ann is not the only municipality with this problem, but
it seems to be the one we hear the most."

City and police officials deny racial profiling, an accusation they have faced
for several years now. They have agreed to meet with the concerned groups
Tuesday to try to reach a common ground.

"We arrest everybody that doesn't have a license, and that's what I'm going to
tell them on Oct. 11," Schrader said.

He said the department chose arrest over a summons to make sure the driver was
not a danger to others.

Hispanics make up about 6 percent of the city's population of 13,020, according
to census figures. City Administrator Matt Conley said the reason Hispanics were
arrested and searched at a higher rate was because they were more often found
without a drivers license.

"When you pull someone over and you don't know who it is, you don't know if they
are the citizen of the year or if they have seven prior arrests," he said. "You
are going to search them."

He noted that state law required judges to hold people suspected of being here
illegally without bail until they can prove their residency status.

Crawford said her group, however, had received many complaints from Hispanic
drivers who say they were the victims of racial profiling in St. Ann - so much
so that St. Charles Rock Road, the main drag through the city, is infamous for
it.

John Chasnoff, program director of the ACLU of Eastern Missouri, said his group
was only recently brought into the conversation. The St. Louis Inter-faith
Committee on Latin America also plans to be at the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. turns its back on bright immigrants In backward policy that hurts our
prosperity, many foreigners get advanced degrees here but are sent home to
compete with us. BUSINESS

BYLINE: DAVID NICKLAUS o dnicklaus@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8213

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: 0


In the debate over how to create jobs in the short run, we sometimes forget what
it takes to create prosperity in the long run. The short answer is smart people
and technological advances, and a nation can't have too much of either.

It's too bad, then, that we don't hear more about the STAPLE bill, which would
automatically grant a green card to any foreigner who earns an advanced science
or engineering degree in the United States. As it stands now, our universities
invest money to educate the world's best and brightest scientists - but the
nation turns its back on them after they graduate.

A new study by the National Foundation for American Policy spells out some of
the consequences of this backward policy. Because the U.S. places country quotas
on employment-based visas, a Chinese or Indian scientist or engineer might have
to wait six or seven years for a green card. For Indian workers classified as
"professional," the backlog stretches to 70 years.

Yes, we actually tell some people that they're smart enough to earn a degree in
the U.S., but we don't want them back during their working lifetimes.

Many of these workers qualify for temporary, or H1-B, visas, but we don't issue
enough of those to meet the demand. Besides, employers may be reluctant to
promote workers whose future residency status is uncertain, and an H1-B holder
can't make the leap from worker to entrepreneur, because giving up a job also
means giving up the visa.

Venture capitalist John Doerr, in 2008, was the first to suggest "stapling" a
green card to each advanced science degree. Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., introduced
the idea as STAPLE, which is an acronym for Stopping Trained in America Ph.D.'s
from Leaving, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., has introduced a similar IDEA
bill, which stands for Innovation Driving Entrepreneurship in America.

Despite support from prominent members of both parties - including former Obama
economic adviser Austan Goolsbee and Republican presidential candidate Mitt
Romney - the bills have gotten bogged down in the larger debate over immigration
reform.

That's too bad, because the economic potential is great.

In many engineering fields, foreign-born students earn between half and
two-thirds of advanced degrees granted by U.S. universities. Then, as President
Barack Obama mentioned in this year's State of the Union address, we send many
of them home to compete with us.

Sharon Levin, research professor of economics at the University of Missouri-St.
Louis, has studied the work of immigrant scientists. She says their
contributions are disproportionate to their numbers.

"Science is a global enterprise," Levin says. "You want the best talent doing
it, and restrictions that hamper the mobility of scientists and engineers are
not good overall."

A more liberal green-card policy probably would increase the number of overseas
applicants to U.S. universities, but they wouldn't necessarily crowd out U.S.
students. Research shows that as universities issue more advanced degrees to
foreigners, they expand their programs.

Some native-born scientists and engineers might worry about the competition for
jobs, but overall this would be a positive-sum exercise. More science expertise
at U.S. companies leads to more innovation, and more innovation leads to more
jobs.

It's really not a difficult equation to solve. It's too bad our leaders in
Washington can't put aside their differences on other immigration issues and let
the stapler do its work.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Economy will be focus tonight of latest GOP debate POLITICS

BYLINE: By STEVE PEOPLES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: 0


MILFORD, N.H. - In an election that's supposed to hinge on jobs and the economy,
the GOP presidential contest in recent months has been defined by almost
everything else.

Immigration and children's vaccines. Race and religion. Homosexuality and health
care. The issues range far from the economic woes that concern most voters, but
they have captivated Republicans in New Hampshire and other early voting states,
providing the candidates with ways to distinguish themselves from their rivals.
The biggest applause lines on the campaign trail usually have little to do with
a candidate's economic position.

The dynamic was on display Monday, even as the contenders prepared for a debate
tonight focused solely on the economy.

"Even the richest man can't buy back his past," intoned a Web video that Texas
Gov. Rick Perry rolled out to assail chief rival Mitt Romney's personal wealth
and the Massachusetts health care overhaul that Romney signed into law.
"America's most damaging prescription: RomneyCare," the video said.

Romney jabbed Perry on immigration. "If you're an illegal - an illegal - in
Texas and you've lived there for three years, you can go to college there and
get a $100,000 break on your tuition. These magnets have got to stop," Romney
said. A packed VFW hall cheered the knock at Perry's support for in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants.

Less than three months before the first voting of the GOP nomination fight, the
candidates are raising a host of issues that don't speak directly to addressing
the nation's 9.1 percent unemployment rate or the frail economy. They do talk
about jobs and the economy to varying degrees. But few - if any - have talked in
specifics, preferring to stick to general Republican orthodoxy of lower taxes,
less spending and rolled-back regulations as a way to fix what ails the country.
They differ little on prescriptions.

The man they hope to oust from the White House, President Barack Obama, will be
talking about jobs today in Pittsburgh, and Friday he will travel to a suburban
Detroit auto plant - with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak, who's in the
U.S. for a visit expected to focus on trade.

A recent Associated Press-GfK poll found 97 percent of Republicans saying the
economy is extremely or very important, similar to the share of Democrats
calling it that important. But Republicans give more attention to other issues -
immigration, abortion and a candidate's religion - than Democrats and
independents do, which could explain why the GOP race sometimes seems focused on
issues other than the economy.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Restoring integrity Our view o St. Louis immigration office complaints warrant
investigation.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: 0


The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services proclaims its core values to be
integrity, respect, ingenuity and vigilance. It pledges that employees will
treat everyone "with dignity and courtesy."

But a complaint hand-delivered last month to agency director Alejandro Mayorkas
strongly suggests that the St. Louis field office of USCIS not only fails to
honor those values, but actually betrays them in many cases. Often at risk are
vulnerable people with extremely limited financial and social resources.

If the letter and its accompanying documentation - first reported by the
Post-Dispatch's Phillip O'Connor - are even close to representative of
conditions here, the St. Louis office needs a major housecleaning, comprehensive
retraining and much tighter oversight.

The St. Louis office deals with legal immigrants living in the United States and
U.S. citizens on compliance with rules governing everything from family,
marriage and international adoption issues to education and employment visas,
sanctuary from persecution overseas and applications for naturalized
citizenship.

According to the complaint letter, some staff members at the St. Louis office -
not all - subject far too many of these people to abusive, intrusive, insulting
and grossly unprofessional treatment. The letter cites dozens of examples from
2011 alone, compiled from a survey of some 170 members of the Missouri/Kansas
chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Among the allegations:

Some district adjudicating officers make disparaging comments about people's
religions. Others insult their parenting practices and probe into their sexual
activities. Some officers yell and throw things during interviews and threaten
to reject people's applications if they continue to bring their lawyers with
them, as they are entitled to do.

Processing delays are common, putting lives on hold for three, five and even
seven years. Lawyers, many of whom work at reduced rates or without charge
through non-profit organizations, are told to not speak or ask questions on
behalf of their clients, and written inquiries routinely are ignored.

"USCIS is reviewing this matter and takes these allegations with the utmost
seriousness," said USCIS press secretary Chris Bentley in a statement. "Our
agency is committed to protecting the rights and liberties of all individuals
who come before us."

Robert Deasy, director of liaison and information for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, parent group of the Missouri/Kansas chapter, said his group
is confident that "the agency is giving this an appropriate level of review.
Fortunately, we don't often see the kinds of things that have been reported out
of the St. Louis office."

As it happens, Mr. Mayorkas soon will have a resource available to him at USCIS
who could prove invaluable: Stephen Legomsky, a professor at Washington
University's School of Law and nationally renowned authority on immigration law
and policy. Earlier this month, the university announced that he would take a
leave of absence from his academic duties to become chief counsel at USCIS in
Washington, D.C.

Reached at his St. Louis home last week, Mr. Legomsky told us that he was aware
of the complaint about the St. Louis office but, as the agency's incoming chief
legal officer, it would be inappropriate for him to discuss it.

Area immigration lawyers describe Mr. Legomsky as a no-nonsense professional
with deep knowledge of the complexities of immigration, citizenship and refugee
law. Mr. Mayorkas could hardly find anyone better to get to the bottom of the
outrageous St. Louis situation.

Mr. Legomsky reports for work tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 30, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: 0


Federal court blocks biofuels mandate

A federal judge moved Thursday to block California from enforcing its
first-in-the-nation mandate for cleaner, low-carbon fuels, saying the rules
favor biofuels produced in the state. The lawsuit challenging the state
regulations, which were adopted as part of the state's landmark 2006 global
warming law, was filed in federal court last year by a coalition including the
National Petrochemical & Refiners Association and the Consumer Energy Alliance.
Fresno-based U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence O'Neill's written ruling
Thursday said the low-carbon fuel rules violated the U.S. Constitution's
commerce clause by discriminating against crude oil and biofuels producers
outside California.

Hispanics oppose deportations, poll finds - Fifty-nine percent of Hispanics
oppose President Barack Obama's increased deportations of illegal immigrants,
according to a new poll showing a weak spot in their otherwise broad support for
the president in next year's election. The survey by the Pew Hispanic Center
released on Wednesday showed that just 27 percent of those polled approved of
the administration's deportation policy, which immigrants' advocates have
criticized as unnecessarily harsh.

Immigration hotline set up - The Homeland Security Department is launching a
hotline for people jailed on immigration charges who believe they are victims of
crime or may be U.S. citizens. The toll free hotline - 1-855-448-6903 - will be
staffed 24 hours a day and run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to answer
questions from people held in local jails about whether they may face
deportation proceedings.

D.C. charged $1.1 million - The District of Columbia has been ordered to pay
more than $1 million in attorneys' fees as a result of a historic gun case that
was ultimately decided by the U.S. Supreme Court. Dick Heller sued the city in
2003 over its ban on handgun ownership, and the U.S. Supreme Court overturned
the ban in June 2008, saying it violated the Second Amendment. A federal judge
on Thursday issued an opinion awarding Heller's attorneys $1,137,072.27 in fees
and expenses.

Heroin-injected teen dies - A 14-year-old girl injected with heroin last week
died Thursday from the overdose, Anchorage police reported. In a brief
statement, police said the girl died shortly after noon. With her death, police
also revealed her identity, Jena Dolstad of Anchorage. Sean Warner, 26, had been
charged with a drug-related felony and other crimes related to the overdose.
Police said he injected Jena with the heroin.

2 killed, 59 hurt in pileup - Police say two men have been killed and 59 people
hurt in a 40-vehicle pileup that closed Interstate 10 for hours in eastern New
Orleans. Officer Garry Flot said 22 people were taken to hospitals with minor to
critical injuries while 37 others refused treatment for minor injuries after the
pileup around 4 a.m. Thursday. Flot says one firefighter was hurt while working
at the scene.

Somali money-transferring ends - Money-transfer businesses that cater to Somali
immigrants in Minnesota stopped accepting money bound for the famine-stricken
East African country Thursday. Sunrise Community Banks previously announced it
would stop processing the transactions on Dec. 30 because it risked violating
government rules intended to fight the financing of terrorist groups.

- Read the latest national news at stltoday.com/news/national

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 16, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

GOP aims to counter anti-Hispanic tone Party will deploy Latino leaders to woo
voters amid tough stances on immigration.

BYLINE: By JERI CLAUSING o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: 0


ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. - The Republican Party is beefing up its minority outreach
nationwide and preparing to put its rising Latino stars on the campaign trail
amid concerns that tough immigration rhetoric in the presidential primary is
taking on an increasingly anti-Hispanic tone.

But immigrant rights groups and some political watchers say the damage may be
irreversible. They argue that the GOP has severely hampered itself as it looks
to woo the critical Latino voting bloc that could decide who wins key states
such as New Mexico, Nevada, Colorado and Florida next fall.

Mitt Romney "is done," said DeeDee Blase, founder of Somos Republicans in
Arizona. "He'll be lucky to get 8 percent of the Hispanic vote" after saying he
would veto legislation that would create a path to citizenship for some illegal
immigrants and accepting the endorsement of anti-immigration activist Kris
Kobach, architect of two of the strongest immigration crackdown laws in the
country.

Romney, the GOP front-runner, has referred to the citizenship legislation -
called the DREAM Act - as a handout. The measure would allow some young illegal
immigrants brought to the U.S. as children to earn legal status if they went to
college or joined the military. Challengers, including Texas Gov. Perry, former
Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, also have taken tough
anti-immigration stances in the campaign.

Language from them has been so sharp that even New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez,
a Republican, has warned the candidates to watch their tongues.

"What we have to do is this: We have to tone down the rhetoric, and we have to
have a sincere, honest conversation with the voters," Martinez said Wednesday,
shortly after the Republican National Committee announced that it had hired a
director of Hispanic outreach and was expanding its Latino-focused efforts.
She's among the popular Hispanic politicians Republicans will deploy to
battleground states in the coming months.

There's a reason for the urgent tone coming from Republican leaders on this
matter.

The government projects Hispanics will account for roughly 30 percent of the
population by 2050, doubling in size and boosting their political power.
Overall, Hispanics traditionally tilt Democratic, meaning the Republican Party
is looking at a threat to their future power if they don't work to make inroads
with this pivotal group now.

Democrats have improved their standing with Hispanics in the most recent
presidential election years. While much was made during the Democratic primary
of 2008 of President Barack Obama's perceived weakness among Hispanics, he won
67 percent of their vote in the general election compared with 31 percent for
Republican John McCain.

Some worry that this year's eventual GOP nominee won't fare much better than
McCain four years ago - and may fare worse - if candidates don't soften the way
they talk about immigration.

"It's an emotional issue, and I think if the candidate can realize that and talk
about it, you can still be conservative on immigration and talk about it in a
way that doesn't turn off Hispanics," said Jennifer Korn, executive director of
the Hispanic Leadership Network. She agreed that "some of the rhetoric could be
pared back a bit."

The issue is about to push to the forefront as the race for the GOP presidential
nomination moves to Florida after South Carolina votes Jan. 21.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Panel tapped to raise scholarship money Immigrant students benefit from Dream
Fund, backed by Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: 0


CHICAGO - Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn on Saturday named a diverse group of educators
and community leaders to serve on a state commission that will raise scholarship
money for college-bound students from immigrant families.

Quinn announced the seven members of the Illinois Dream Fund Commission at a
rally hosted by the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

The commission will create a nonprofit entity to raise money for immigrant
students, in addition to choosing recipients and publicizing the program.

Rigorous fundraising must take place before any scholarships can be awarded,
officials said.

"We have to tap the resources of people who understand that an investment in our
kids is an investment in the future of this country," said commission member
Ronald Perlman, president of a professional development services organization.

Other commissioners include Tanya Cabrera, associate director of minority
student outreach at Illinois Institute of Technology; Nam H. Paik, partner at
the Baker and McKenzie law firm; and Moises Zavala, director of organizing at
United Food and Commercial Workers Local No. 881.

The Illinois Dream Act, signed into law last year, created a privately funded
scholarship program for high school graduates from immigrant families.

"It's all about making sure that folks who have the opportunity to go to college
have the finances to go to college," Quinn said.

The governor also made a $1,000 pledge to the Dream Fund, saying the state has
to get the Dream Act going.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Jolie the director takes on tough task of documenting Bosnian war She knows that
for some immigrants, movie will revive painful memories.

BYLINE: BY JOE WILLIAMS o Post-Dispatch Film Critic >
joewilliams@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8344

SECTION: A&E; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: 0


There are 70,000 Bosnian immigrants in the St. Louis area, mostly in
working-class enclaves on the south side. While few of their neighbors
understand the circumstances that brought these refugees to America, they've got
an ally in Hollywood: Angelina Jolie.

For her directorial debut, "In the Land of Blood and Honey," the actress and
human rights advocate has used a fictional romance to dramatize the ethnic
cleansing around Sarajevo during the Bosnian war of the early '90s. It's an
unflinching film that provoked strong reactions when it premiered on the coasts
in December. The local Wehrenberg chain opened the movie on Friday at its
Ronnies Cine, with some encouragement from U.S. Rep. Russ Carnahan and a
local-media push by the director. But in a phone interview last week, Jolie
acknowledged that many Bosnians may not be ready to revisit the war, in which
Muslims were ousted by forces loyal to neighboring Serbia.

"The Bosnians' reluctance is understandable," she said. "I was nervous the first
time we showed it to victims of the war, not just because their reaction was
important to shaping the film, but because I knew it was bringing up painful
memories for them and I didn't want them to suffer through it for two hours. I
made the film to educate people who don't know about the war."

Documenting the causes and casualties of the war is a daunting challenge for
historians, let alone a novice screenwriter and director. Some people from the
former Yugoslavia trace the ethnic and religious conflicts to World War II or
even to the the incursion of Turks in the Middle Ages.

After the death of unifying dictator Josip Tito and the subsequent end of
communism, old rivalries re-emerged, and the relatively stable melting pot of
Bosnia-Herzegovina was fractured along tribal lines. Orthodox Christian Serbs,
Catholic Croats and Bosnian Muslims (sometimes called Bosniaks) fought for
control of the state. The Bosnian loyalists were outgunned, and in the worst
carnage on European soil in half a century, thousands of civilians were raped
and murdered.

Only after NATO waged a bombing campaign did the numerous forces come to the
negotiating table. Today, a fragile peace prevails in Sarajevo, the city that
hosted the 1984 Winter Olympics, but thousands of Bosnians live in exile, in
places such as St. Louis.

Some Bosnians are ethnic Serbs and are among the critics who have called "In the
Land of Blood and Honey" one-sided. But Jolie, who works as a goodwill
ambassador for the United Nations, says that passionate disagreements go with
the territory.

"There are many different sides to the conflict, and even within those sides
there are extreme differences in viewpoint. To find a respectful balance between
those viewpoints was a challenge.

"Of course, this film is a dramatic interpretation and not everyone is going to
agree with it, but there are a lot of Serbs who support the movie because they
recognize that there is humanity on both sides. And I wouldn't have made the
film without Serbs in the cast and crew."

That crew proved invaluable for the first-time director, who shot the film in
Hungary on a limited budget. "I've got six kids, so I was used to multitasking,"
she said, "but I learned something new every day, starting with how to look
through the camera.

"I've had experiences on film sets where people worked together and were kind to
each other, and I've had other experiences where it was hierarchical and people
were rude to each other, so I was very careful in picking a crew that was not
only talented but some of the nicest people in the business. They all took pay
cuts because they wanted to tell this story.

"For the past few years, there was a part of me that was wanting to move away
from making films. I was not enjoying the process. But every day I would arrive
on this set that was filled with kind, committed people and I would think: This
life can be so beautiful."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Chris Pizzello  o  Associated Press Angelina Jolie, director of "In
the Land of Blood and Honey," says "I was nervous the first time we showed it to
victims of the war."  Chris Pizzello  o  Associated Press Angelina Jolie poses
for photos at the Golden Globe Foreign Language Nominees Seminar last month at
the Egyptian Theater in Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

End of road nears for agency helping African immigrants Tough times have left
nonprofit - which served 30,000 over almost 30 years - down to its last $12,000.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - A large American flag hangs on a wall behind Gedlu Metaferia's desk.
On the corner of the desk, in a neat row, are copies of the Bible, the Quran and
the Torah. They symbolize tolerance and understanding, he says.

Here, in this upstairs office of a church rectory near Tower Grove Park,
Metaferia helps African immigrants and refugees acclimate to their new homeland.
From helping fill out citizenship applications and insurance forms to serving as
interpreter at doctor visits, Metaferia's nonprofit has helped about 30,000
Africans over three decades.

That help comes to an end in a few months.

The sputtering economy has taken its toll on Metaferia. Grants are harder to
come by - and smaller than ever. And much of the help available is for those who
serve new arrivals; Metaferia's clients tend to be those who have been in St.
Louis beyond five years, when assistance for refugees is no longer available.

The agency is down to its last $12,000. When it runs out, most likely in June,
Metaferia will close African Mutual Assistance Association of Missouri for good.

"We tried our best to survive, but the recession has been too bad," Metaferia
said. "In 2008, it began going down the tubes. There are not enough grants and
the competition is very, very high."

Metaferia, 58, no longer collects a salary. Two office workers are paid $500 a
month each.

Metaferia said continuing to work as a volunteer for the organization he began
in 1983 is no longer viable. He and his wife, who works in housekeeping, have
two small children.

Those who have worked closely with Metaferia over the years say his absence will
leave a void in helping a population that numbers about 6,000 in the region.

"This is a disaster," said Karen Aroesty, regional director of the
Anti-Defamation League. "This region will be the lesser for not having Gedlu at
the table. It's just a shame the folks who have the capacity couldn't continue
to step up and see value in this."

Anna Crosslin, executive director of the International Institute of St. Louis,
said small agencies such as Metaferia's, commonly referred to as AMAAM, have
trouble rebounding once funding begins to drop. The International Institute
subcontracts with AMAAM for translation and other services. Metaferia declined
the contract for next year because it alone is not enough to sustain the
organization. Its annual budget had grown to as much as $150,000 and seven
employees before beginning its decline the past decade. Today, the budget is
about $35,000 a year.

"When a budget gets too small, the only way it goes is to get smaller," Crosslin
said. "You have to have fewer staff, so you end up serving fewer people, then
you get funded for less."

The agency once served as many as 1,500 a year. It's now between 600 and 700
annually. Another challenge is a drop in the number of African refugees arriving
in St. Louis. In 2004, 369 Africans were resettled, mainly from Somalia and
Liberia. Last year, that number was 112.

In the past five years, the largest resettlement groups in St. Louis arrived
from non-African countries - Bhutan, Iraq and Myanmar (formerly Burma), although
a steady stream of refugees also arrived from Somalia and Ethiopia, Metaferia's
home country.

Still, Africans represent 25 percent of the refugees resettled here since 2000.

Metaferia's agency was once called Ethiopian Community Association of Missouri.
He eventually changed the name and opened the agency to all Africans. Doing so
brought more cultures, religions and languages into his office.

"Frankly, the African community is not homogeneous," Aroesty said. "The African
community is as different and diverse as any community. (Metaferia) managed to
bring them all together."

Metaferia spends about 30 hours a week in his office, located behind St. John's
Episcopal Church near Tower Grove Park. He points to holy books on his desk
including the Bible, read by Ethiopians such as Metaferia, the Quran, read by
Somalis - the region's largest African population - and a Torah given to him by
a rabbi.

Central to Metaferia's assistance mission is tolerance. Without it, acclimation
is just that much more difficult, he said.

Like other new Americans, African refugees and immigrants have many of the same
challenges of navigating the bureaucracy of a new land. Domestic violence is one
area Metaferia often counsels. And he has worked to help refugees better
understand the role of police.

"We came from a police state," he said of many refugees. "We don't want
immigrants to fear police. I work to create that bridge."

Crosslin said AMAAM's role is unique in that it serves Africans who have been
here more than five years and no longer are eligible for various refugee
benefits.

"He has been a cultural and language navigator for many people who otherwise
might have slid thorough cracks because they didn't fit into any organization's
mission," she said.

Metaferia's fate has been precarious before. The agency nearly closed in 2007 as
money got tight. But donations and $50,000 in grants allowed it to continue.
This time, Metaferia says, no safety nets are in sight.

At one time, his salary was $35,000. But Metaferia has not drawn a paycheck
since February 2010. He has collected unemployment to get by, but that ended in
December. He is looking for work and earning a little money from translating and
consulting, he said.

Yihenew Mazengia has seen the passion behind Metaferia's work, first meeting him
in 1995. After a stroke two years ago disabled the Ethiopian taxi driver,
Mazengia turned to the group for help. Metaferia gave him money for groceries
and toiletries and helped with transportation.

"When newcomers arrive there are language problems, cultural shock. They are
completely lost," Mazengia said. "(Metaferia) is there to lend a hand, like
taking them to the hospital, finding an apartment for rent, helping them shop
for groceries. He's a tremendous help with transformation."

Crosslin said Metaferia's perseverance has been admirable.

"It's sad. He's been fighting this battle for a long time. I have to tell you I
might have quit earlier than he," she said. "He has his passion and a desire to
genuinely make a difference. At some point or another you do what your family
needs you to do."

---

African Refugees

Since 2000, the International Institute of St. Louis has resettled 1,577 African
refugees. The largest populations are:

Somalia 774 Liberia 215 Ethiopia 157 Congo 129 Burundi 91 Eritrea 61 Sierra
Leone 53 Sudan 28 Kenya 16 Nigeria 13

Source: International Institute

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo of: Metaferia   Erik M. Lunsford  o  elunsford@post-dispatch
Gedlu Metaferia greets Azmera Nirea in his office last week at the African
Mutual Assistance Association of Missouri. Metaferia, who has not drawn a salary
in two years, said he hopes funding will come through that will help him avert
closing the organization.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Rape case here shows data gap for immigrants Eritrean girl impregnated by fellow
refugee may have been 12; official birth dates are just guesses.

BYLINE: BY JENNIFER MANN o jmann@post-dispatch.com > 314-621-5804

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1744 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - The wheels of justice started grinding against a distant culture the
day the soft-spoken seventh-grader walked into a Planned Parenthood clinic here
with a swollen belly, seeking an abortion.

The nonprofit clinic called social services, which in turn called St. Louis
police. Investigators presented facts to prosecutors, who in February 2011 filed
a first-degree statutory rape charge against Asannay Marbati, the 20-something
father-to-be.

By that time, the girl - age 12 according to the charges - had decided to
proceed with the pregnancy, and Marbati had moved next door to her family on
Gasconade Street.

The girl and her mother told detectives that the one-time sexual encounter that
impregnated her was acceptable in Eritrea, the war-torn country from which they
fled. Marbati, also from Eritrea, told them the same.

But that doesn't matter under Missouri law.

Detectives had to explain repeatedly to Marbati, through an interpreter, that
regardless of what is acceptable in Eritrea, having sex with a minor is a major
crime here - punishable by five years to life in prison.

If the law was just that simple, the circumstances of this case were not.

The girl was 12 only because of the best guess of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials when she arrived in 2007. In the village where she was
born, it so happens, they do not follow a calendar year nor track ages.

Marbati's attorney, John Rogers, seized on that part of the culture to build
what might have seemed like a long-shot defense: How can the state prove the
girl was under the age of consent if nobody really knows how old she is?

For that matter, nobody knew for sure if Marbati was 22, the age on his Social
Security card. If he was under 21, and she was 14 or older, it would have been
considered a lesser crime.

When the case went to a bench trial on March 26, St. Louis Circuit Judge Angela
Turner-Quigless accepted Rogers' point about the girl's arbitrary age,
dismissing the charge. Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce filed a notice of appeal.
She issued a statement saying, " ... we believe a serious crime against a child
has occurred."

CHILDREN WITHOUT AGES

Marbati's birthday, according to all his American records, is Jan. 1. It is the
girl's birthday, too, and her mother's and her brother's. Countless immigrants,
in fact, carry that birth date because of the semi-random nature of the way in
which they were assigned.

Suzanne LeLaurin, of the International Institute of St. Louis, said batches of
Jan. 1 birthdays are seen most often with refugee populations, particularly
those fleeing rural areas in developing countries such as Eritrea.

"In many countries around the world there is no such thing as birth
certificates, there is no recognition of birthdays," explained LeLaurin, a
senior vice president at the institute, which serves immigrants here.

With no documentation of the birth or historical event to peg it to, assigning a
birth date "is kind of a guess," she said.

The girl in this case was born in a small, remote village where there were no
doctors or midwives, according to Marbati's attorney. The birth was not
documented.

Rogers said he was able to get the mother to acknowledge, in cross-examination,
that when they came to the U.S., the girl's age was assigned without family
input. Marbati's assigned age, he said, was equally uncertain.

"I'm unsure why the Circuit Attorney's office elected to proceed in the first
place," he said in an interview. "There was no credible information to establish
the age of the complaining witness or of my client."

To convict Marbati of first-degree statutory rape, prosecutors needed to show
the girl was under age 14, regardless of Marbati's age. Second-degree statutory
rape charges would apply if she was under age 17 and he was 21 or older.

Assistant Circuit Attorney Natalie Warner, who handled the case, said the law
does not require the prosecution to prove the victim's exact age - just that she
was under the age of consent. At trial, Warner pointed to certain benchmarks she
believed helped establish that.

The prosecutor pointed out that when the girl and her family crossed from
Eritrea into Ethiopia, where they would spend more than seven years in a refugee
camp, the girl was old enough to walk but young enough that she had to be
carried for part of the two-day journey. Her younger brother had to be carried
most of the way.

Warner showed the judge a picture of the girl from fourth grade, the year her
family moved to St. Louis and she was assigned the Jan. 1, 1998, birth date. She
pointed to the girl's siblings, and the ages they had been assigned, for
comparison.

"I believe they got it right," Warner said.

CLASH OF CULTURES

Where the girl and her family now live on South Spring Street, Marbati is
noticeably absent. He spent six months behind bars awaiting trial, and after
being released on bond was forbidden from contacting the girl or their
10-month-old daughter.

The girl and her mother agreed to speak with a reporter last week on condition
that their names not be used. They spoke through an interpreter in their
language of Kunama.

The girl looks the part of a typical middle-schooler. On this day, she wore
jeans and a polo shirt and dangly gold earrings. When asked about Marbati, she
got quiet and giggled, looking down at her purple and black high-tops. Her
child, who has just learned to crawl, scooted about the living room floor in a
hoodie decorated with translucent butterflies. Both the girl and her mother took
clear joy in watching her.

The mother brought her six children to America for a better life than they had
in their village of Fode, near Ethiopia, which has been locked for three decades
in a border war with Eritrea. They were among the second wave of roughly 250
Eritrean immigrants who have settled in St. Louis.

The mother said she was at first shocked and angry to learn her daughter was
pregnant. She worried it would interfere with school - a new liberty they have
been afforded here. But then, she said, she came to a realization: "What can I
do? She's my daughter. I have to love my daughter."

The mother said that she never wanted to see Marbati charged and that she
struggled many times to explain the cultural differences to authorities. Back
home, she said, a young pregnancy is not popular, but it doesn't end in jail for
the father. Village leaders would decide how to handle a young girl's pregnancy,
she said, usually requiring the couple to live for several years with their
respective families, then wed.

Still, she said, she understands that there are different rules here.

The girl said little, often deferring to her mother. She confirmed, however,
that her sexual encounter with Marbati was consensual and that she didn't want
him charged.

When detectives questioned Marbati on Feb. 8, 2011, he said he did not know his
actual age, despite a Social Security card and drivers permit showing a birth
date of Jan. 1, 1988.

Marbati also told them it was acceptable to have sex with a girl in Eritrea once
she was developed. He said he was unaware of American age-of-consent laws.

He declined, through his attorney, to speak to a reporter for this article.

A LEGAL DIVIDE

LeLaurin, of the International Institute, acknowledged that it may sound odd to
anyone who hasn't been exposed to cultures lacking those distinctions. "You're
looking at this situation from a lens that is very culture-bound," she said. "We
have laws, we have birth certificates, we have age of consent."

She explained, "It's not uncommon for refugees to struggle with adapting to a
set of laws and cultural norms and expectations that are very different to what
they are used to."

The institute has programs to help immigrants assimilate, LeLaurin said, but it
can be a daunting task when cultural differences are large. Many families
struggle.

LeLaurin said she cannot think of another situation like Marbati's. But, she
said, the institute has been involved in cases of neglect, for example, in which
a family was unaware of the U.S. requirement to send a child to school.

It is "not common" for cultural differences to lead to criminal charges,
LeLaurin said, and "when it does happen it's very visible and heartbreaking."

Peter Joy, a Washington University law professor, said that while prosecutors
exercise discretion in bringing charges on a wide variety of cases, they often
feel compelled to take a hard line on sex crimes involving children.

He said that is, in part, what prompted a rash of so-called "Romeo and Juliet"
laws in a number of states in recent years. Such laws, which in many states were
opposed by prosecutors, bar statutory rape charges for sex between teens close
in age, even if one is below the age of consent.

Missouri has graduated offenses keyed by ages; Illinois has no such provision.

Joy said the cultural issue alone was not much of a defense for Marbati in a
country that has long since drawn the line against a number of practices - for
example, certain kinds of drug use or body mutilation - which are acceptable
elsewhere.

But the question over the dates of birth "is very unusual," he said.

DECISION TO PROSECUTE

Rogers, the defense attorney, has criticized the circuit attorney's office for
pressing the case despite the cultural differences, age ambiguities and
resistance from the girl's family.

He emphasized that a conviction would have left Marbati subject to deportation
and unable to help the girl, now in eighth grade, raise their daughter.

The fact that prosecutors are appealing is "puzzling," Rogers said, because they
did not indicate they would do so when the judge delivered her decision.

"I question whether the decision to appeal was motivated by the media's inquiry
into this case," he said, adding he planned to object to their challenge.

The girl's mother was reluctant to comment on the circuit court judge's
decision, saying Warner had not yet informed her of it. She said she opposed an
appeal.

"I've been telling them a hundred times I don't want to see any charges," she
said.

Warner, however, denied that the girl's family ever expressed their objections.

Regardless, the prosecutor said, it's not uncommon for families to be reluctant
in cases that involve close friends.

"It's important that the prosecutor's office step forward to protect all
children's rights, no matter if they're coming from a family that thinks it's OK
that they be taken advantage of," Warner said. "She deserved to have a childhood
... not to be an eighth-grader with a baby."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

YOUR VIEWS o LETTERS FROM OUR READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1978 words

DATELINE: 0


Remember our roots this Cinco de Mayo

It seems that America, most particularly Missouri, has forgotten its roots.
There is not one state in this nation that was not created by immigrants.
Immigrants built communities, created jobs and forged a nation on the promise
that all people could live as brothers and sister under one flag, united for a
common purpose.

How disappointed they would be in us today.

Missouri is falling behind. Our Legislature has brought up bills that would
allow police to pull over anyone and ask for proof of residence, to offer driver
exams in only English and without allowing an interpreter and to require schools
to check students' immigration status and send that information to the
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.

What does this say about immigration in Missouri?

As a second-generation American whose family immigrated from Mexico in the
1920s, I wonder how easy it would have been today for my grandparents to
assimilate. My grandmother, Grace, survived the bombings in London to move to
Texas and eventually California where her husband opened a corner store and put
people to work.

Missouri can be more welcoming. St. Louis should be the example.

We need better immigration policies in Missouri to encourage people to come from
all corners of the globe and build their businesses here in St. Louis. We have
neighborhoods that need to be rebuilt and jobs that need to be created in those
communities. We need to change our perception that immigrants are here to take
our jobs. It's the opposite: They are here to create them.

Let's help them do that.

Martin Casas - St. Louis

River must be managed for many interests

Last year's flood was devastating up and down the Missouri River basin. The
events in 2011 made it clear that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers needs to
revise its Missouri River management practices. However, the changes suggested
in the guest commentary "Corps should deauthorize the Missouri River navigation
channel" (April 25) completely overlook the well-being of the lower basin and
the many benefits provided by the system's levees and navigation capabilities.

Managing the river without levees and the navigation channel would widen the
path of the river, reverting it back to a Lewis and Clark-era waterway and
destroying thousands of farms, homes, businesses and livelihoods in the process.
Modern society demands a modern river.

Today's global civilization is facing an exploding world population and
increasing demands on our resources. It is vital that we retain every acre
possible to produce food, feed and energy, especially the most productive acres
such as those along the Missouri River. We must utilize management practices to
best meet the needs of the population and entire river structure. The levees and
dams were designed to protect all entities along the river, from Montana to the
confluence with the Mississippi.

The premise that recreation is more economically beneficial than transportation
is flawed. According to the corps' Annual Operating Plan Report for 2008,
navigation along the river moved more than $600 million in commercial freight in
2005. The value of recreation has been identified as $85 million.

The navigation channel, which allows for barge traffic, is the most economic
shipping method for most goods and the most environmentally friendly. Barges can
transport cargo safely and reduce the number of trucks on the road. According to
the Waterways Council Inc., if one tow of 15 barges is unable to reach its
destination by river, 1,050 large semi tractor-trailers or 216 rail cars with
six locomotives would be required to carry the same load. A barge can move one
ton of cargo 576 miles per gallon of fuel, while a rail car would move the same
ton of cargo 413 miles and a truck only 155 miles.

Farmers do not want to reestablish the status quo along the river. However,
sacrificing the livelihoods in the lower basin is not the answer. By better
identifying weather patterns and increasing storage levels in the upper basin,
we can better prevent flooding and take advantage of the river as an economic
resource not enjoyed by many states.

Gary D. Marshall - Jefferson City CEO, Missouri Corn Growers Association

Common-sense risks

Regarding "Foreclosures up in St. Louis" (April 26): Foreclosures unfortunately
have become a normalized financial marvel. It saddens me to realize the vast
impact that this very predictable event will have.

First-generation homeowners have been stripped of years of potential wealth
accumulation. This phenomenon is a great way to shift wealth from people who
traditionally have been left out of the equation and into the hands of those who
have more than enough.

The psychological impact reaches across generations. Couple that with a failing
school system, poor family structure and little to no personal financial
management skills, and we have a real-life, extinction-level event occurring.

What's the answer? I believe it lies somewhere between common sense and
education. We all have to accept our roles. Hard work, perseverance, opportunity
and common sense can go a long way. Our financial system has moved from one
extreme, giving loans to anyone who can fog a mirror, to the other, where only
the best risks (or a select few) will receive loans.

Only when people with influence and financial ability (banks, lenders,
legislators, etc.) take common-sense risks will we begin to see full recovery.
If not, I fear it will get much, much worse economically and, eventually,
civilly.

Tyrone N. Turner - St. Louis

Compromising safety

A current Missouri legislative bill sponsored by Rep. Melissa Leach,
R-Springfield, and Rep. Kathie Conway, R-St. Charles County, would compromise
the health and safety of Missouri citizens as well as prevent them from
determining what is best for their communities ("Bill would restrict efforts by
cities, counties to ban smoking," May 2). This bill would prohibit Missouri
cities and counties from banning smoking in establishments where at least 60
percent of sales come from alcohol, tobacco or entertainment.

Ms. Leach states that "smoking should be left up to the business owner, not the
local government." If that is the case, then why isn't she also sponsoring
legislation to allow the business owner, not the local government, to determine
the seating capacity, number and location of safe exits, the temperature at
which meat and other food products are stored and cooked, whether to control
rodents and insects and the cleanliness of his/her establishment? All of these
are regulated by local governments to promote and protect public health and
safety. Smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke pose a very serious threat to
public health. Why should it be exempted from local regulations?

Ms. Conway acknowledges that "smoking ... is a bad thing." Nevertheless, she is
cosponsoring this bill to "give restaurant and bar owners a little more control
over their property and business." But her solution for giving restaurant and
bar owners more control is to have the state step in and take control from
communities and citizens.

Thus far, 25 cities in Missouri have enacted clean-indoor-air laws. In most
cases, these laws were approved by the people in those communities. In 2009,
voters in St. Louis County approved a clean-indoor-air law by a decisive 65
percent. Other cities have chosen not to enact clean-indoor-air laws.

The state should not be allowed to usurp the right of citizens to determine what
is best for their communities, especially at the expense of good public health
policy.

Barry Freedman - Clayton

Golden goose

Missouri representatives in the counties surrounding the Ozark National Scenic
Riverway have voted for House Concurrent Resolution 52, which proposes a "no
action" decision on the upcoming Park Plan.

The resolution is nothing but a grandstanding sop designed to appease a few
disgruntled local citizens with loud voices who still feel the Ozark National
Scenic Riverway is their sole playground and not a national treasure.

People from all over the world come here because these rivers have been managed
for protection. A "no action" to appease a narrow few urges the National Park
Service to do nothing about ongoing water contamination, abuse by off-road
vehicles and out-of-control county officials building illegal roads. It fails to
recognize that the riverway is a "golden goose" that brings upward of 1.5
million visitors to the park and surrounding counties. These visitors pay for a
lot of bread and butter in the local economy.

Concurrent resolutions do not carry the force of law. The governor can't veto
it. It's only a glorified New Year's resolution, a mere statement. It does,
however, reveal the sorry priorities of this pack of politicians.

Forward-thinking citizens can urge the National Park Service to address these
problems to keep this golden goose golden.

Tom Kruzen - Ozark, Mo. Water Sentinel Volunteer

Not worth gas money

Having read this paper for as long as I can remember, and the Globe-Democrat
during its time, I know that political corruption always has been heavily
covered. Has it done any good?

Until the public stops voting the "party line" - either left or right - and
starts voting for truly middle-of-the-road, moderate-thinking individuals who
will enact laws based on the common good, corruption will prevail.

Public financing of all elections regardless of the level of the office is the
only way we will ever get out of the mess this country has fallen into. I have
no idea how public financing would work given the fact that anyone who runs for
office would need to meet certain standards to receive money. Who would set the
standards?

The absolute worst Supreme Court ruling in the history of our nation was
Citizens United. I may be overstating its importance, but as the years go on, it
has the potential of destroying the republic.

Every politician - from city councilman to mayor to county executive to governor
to president of the United States - is open to taking money and being
"obligated" to answer to corporations, unions, small business, big business,
millionaires and billionaires, and that's exactly what they are doing. I suppose
I would buy a local politician myself, assuming I could afford one, to force my
neighbor to fix his water problems that continue to cause water problems for me.
If something that small can be accomplished, imagine what big money can do!

I don't feel as if my vote matters, and I question myself when I go into the
booth. Why am I bothering? I first stepped into a voting booth 48 years ago, and
now I'm not sure it's worth the gas money to drive to the polls.

Ed LaTour - St. Peters

Demoralization of the American worker

David Cochran's guest commentary "Advancing workers' interests" (May 2)
effectively captures the labor situation in America. Yet the piece doesn't delve
deep enough into the likely ramifications if the demoralization of the American
worker is allowed to continue.

Few people recall the bitter attitudes associated with the adversarial
relationship between workers and business that existed not too many years ago.
Organized labor made concerted efforts to create a friendlier climate, only to
see business interests demand the removal of unions from the equation.

Why does business demand more influence over labor when business concerns are
being addressed and actions have been implemented to appease their discomfort?
Two reasons come to mind: ignorance and greed. Ignorance of the hostile
environment being created and the likely financial penalty if workers are forced
to their breaking point. Erosion of the middle class quickly is removing the
protective cushions protecting the layers of social classes.

If the present desire to destroy the middle class continues, more than 100 years
of efforts to create a fair and peaceful society will be negated.

Ed Beck - Ferguson

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

'The Intouchables,' a hit in France, arrives here Culture-clash dramedy hinges
on millionaire and his immigrant caretaker. Three stars

BYLINE: BY JOE WILLIAMS o Post-Dispatch Film Critic o
joewilliams@post-dispatch.com o 314-340-8344

SECTION: GO!; Pg. G20

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: 0


'The Intouchables" isn't a very descriptive title - a better homage to its
influences might be "The Diving Bell and the Scent of Monsieur Daisy" - but that
didn't stop this dramedy about a rich quadriplegic and his immigrant chauffeur
from becoming one of the biggest hits in the history of French cinema. It's the
kind of movie that inspires word-of-mouth recommendations by speaking the
international language of culture clash.

Driss (Omar Sy) is a boisterous and resourceful Senegalese immigrant who answers
an ad for a caretaker to widowed millionaire Phillippe (Francois Cluzet), who
was injured in a paragliding accident. Driss just wants a signature on a form,
so he can prove that he was looking for work and deserves unemployment benefits.
But Phillippe is impressed with the young man's honesty and hires Driss as a
live-in assistant.

Compared with the public housing project where Driss' relatives live,
Phillippe's apartment is the palace at Versailles, with fine art on the walls
and a staff of white toadies who croak about the black stranger. But predictably
Driss is a breath of fresh air, stirring romance between the staffers and
blowing away the cobwebs with the funk music that he prefers to Phillipe's musty
Mozart.

Yet perhaps because it's in a foreign language and a culture that's not as
historically divided as our own, the racial stereotypes don't seem egregious.
Much of the credit goes to the very likable Sy, who won the French equivalent of
the Academy Award for best actor. His oversize personality dominates the movie,
at the expense of Driss' sketchily rendered relatives and even Phillipe's
physical challenges.

There's some mild slapstick about the need for a seat belt in his wheelchair and
a humorously high-flying role reversal in the last act, but mostly the medical
subplot is as inconsequential as Phillipe's choice of chapeau when he dresses to
meet the pen pal who doesn't know he's a quadriplegic.

The easygoing posture and strong casting keep "The Intouchables" from stumbling
over vexing questions of race, class and disability. When the inevitable
American remake happens, instead of relying on comedians to escort us past the
pitfalls, the filmmakers may want to take a stand.

What "The Intouchables" - Rated R - Run time 1:52 - Content Sexuality, adult
themes and strong language - Language French - Where Plaza Frontenac

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Francois Cluzet (left) and Omar Sy in "The Intouchables" (The
Weinstein Co.)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Obama's dream Our view o The president stands up for young Hispanic immigrants.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: 0


We need you.

That was President Barack Obama's message to about 800,000 young graduates of
American high schools on Friday when he signed an executive order delaying their
potential deportation.

These young people, most of them Hispanic children and young adults who were
brought to this country by their parents, have faced deportation to their home
countries because Republican politicians are too hard-headed to adopt the
pro-family, pro-jobs DREAM Act.

That common sense piece of legislation, championed by Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill.,
is aimed at young people who have been educated in our schools, have no criminal
records and already are contributing to our economy. They'd be allowed to stay
in this country, go to college, get jobs and begin the arduous path to becoming
American citizens.

Some of them joined the military and fought for our country's cherished
freedoms, yet too many Republicans still want to kick them out. It's shameful.

"We need them," Mr. Durbin said in 2007 when he argued unsuccessfully on the
Senate floor for the DREAM Act. It failed then, and it failed again in 2010 in
the form of an amendment to another bill.

Mr. Obama's action acknowledges that America's convoluted web of immigration
laws not only is broken, but it also is working against the country's interest.
It must be fixed.

Some thoughtful Republicans agree. Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, has been a longtime
supporter of Mr. Durbin's bill. Former President George W. Bush fought against
the extremists in his party who merely want to put up a fence and send the
foreigners away. And Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who is considered to be high on
the vice presidential short list, also supports a version of the DREAM Act.

On Friday, Mr. Rubio called Mr. Obama's executive order a "short-term answer to
a long-term problem."

He's right. But it's his party that standing in the way of finding a long-term
solution to the country's broken immigration policies.

Republicans also are right that Mr. Obama's executive order looks like a blatant
ploy to win Hispanic votes in the November election.

We hope it works. If Hispanics rally to Mr. Obama's side and are key to his
reelection, then Republicans could be forced to defy the extremists who have
punished hundreds of thousands of young people for the failures of politicians
who've had decades to devise a workable immigration policy.

In 2005, Missouri's two Republican senators, Christopher "Kit" Bond and Jim
Talent, did for Jefferson City's Marie Gonzalez what Mr. Obama is doing now for
hundreds of thousands of young people like her.

They convinced the Department of Homeland Security to delay her impending
deportation so that she could finish her studies at college. Ms. Gonzalez
graduated from Westminster College in Fulton, Mo. She's married, working and
living in Kansas City.

Helping her was the right thing to do then. Helping others like her is the right
thing to do now. America cannot succeed if it turns its back on its immigrant
roots and shuns young people who merely want to follow their dreams.

We need them, now more than ever.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OBITUARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Romney is noncommittal on new immigration order GOP hopeful declines to say
whether he would overturn Obama's new policy.

BYLINE: KASIE HUNT o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: 0


BRUNSWICK, Ohio - Mitt Romney is declining to say that he would overturn
President Barack Obama's new policy allowing some young illegal immigrants to
stay in the United States.

The Republican presidential candidate was asked three times in an interview on
CBS' "Face the Nation" whether he would overturn the executive order issued
Friday if he's elected in the fall. He refused to directly answer.

"It would be overtaken by events," Romney said when pressed for the second time
by moderator Bob Schieffer during the interview taped Saturday while the former
Massachusetts governor's bus tour stopped in Pennsylvania.

He explained that the order would become irrelevant "by virtue of my putting in
place a long-term solution, with legislation which creates law that relates to
these individuals such that they know what their setting is going to be, not
just for the term of a president but on a permanent basis."

Romney's Rust Belt tour swept through Ohio on Sunday. He attended a Father's Day
pancake breakfast with two of his sons and five of his 18 grandchildren. He told
a rain-soaked crowd that the weather was a metaphor for the country and that
"three and half years of dark clouds are about to part."

He planned two additional stops in the state Sunday.

Obama's order has put Romney in a difficult position, forcing him to decide
between possibly alienating Hispanic voters with tough talk or stoking anger
within a conservative GOP base that was slow to warm to him during the primary
process.

Romney's comments represent a further softening of his rhetoric on immigration
since the GOP primary campaign ended.

For example, before the Iowa caucuses in January, when he faced the challenge of
winning over the right-wing base of the GOP, he pledged to veto legislation
backed by Democrats that would have created a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants brought to the U.S. as children. Instead of emphasizing the plight of
illegal immigrants, Romney focused on the consequences illegal immigration has
for U.S. jobs.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Rx for St. Louis Economy: More immigration A study by a SLU economist finds that
the region's immigrant population is small but that its members are economically
quite successful, and that the area needs more like them.

BYLINE: Story By Tim Logan o tlogan@post-dispatch.com PHOTOS BY J.B. FORBES o
jforbes@post-dispatch.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: 0


Creve Coeur - If St. Louis hopes to grow its economy in the 21st century, it's
going to need more people like Carmen Jacob, Rao Chilakala, and the 75
researchers at the Danforth Plant Science Center who were born in other
countries but live and work here.

That's the thrust of a new study issued Tuesday by economic development
officials in St. Louis and St. Louis County, arguing that a big reason the
region has fallen behind many other big cities is the strikingly low rate of
immigration here.

About 126,000 St. Louisans, less than 5 percent of the region's population, were
born overseas. That rate is four or five times less than most of the rest of the
nation's 20 biggest metro areas, the study found.

Coupled with an aging population, that translates into lower growth, fewer
skilled workers to fill jobs in high-growth industries, and a more sluggish
economy, said Jack Strauss, an economics professor at St. Louis University who
authored the study.

"We have the lowest share of immigrants of any top 20 city, and the second
lowest growth rate," Strauss said. "That's not a coincidence."

Smaller Midwest cities such as St. Louis have had a particularly hard time
attracting immigrants, who tend to be drawn to bigger metro areas and cities
where there are already established ethnic populations.

While public debate often focuses on low-skilled, low-wage immigrants, most
people who move from abroad to the U.S. tend to be highly educated and
entrepreneurial - especially in places such as St. Louis that aren't traditional
gateways, said Strauss and others at a panel talk on the topic Tuesday.

"You don't come to America to be jobless," said Strauss. "It's a sink-or-swim
environment. So we tend to attract the smartest, most hardworking people."

The immigrant households in St. Louis earn, on average, $83,000 a year, 25
percent more than native-born households, Strauss' study found. Foreign-born
residents are 44 percent more likely to have a college degree, and 60 percent
more likely to start a business.

Places such as the Danforth Center, which hosted Tuesday's event, are part of
the reason why.

The research center, along with the region's universities, hospitals and
top-tier corporations, are magnets for highly skilled immigrants, said Anna
Crosslin, president of the International Institute of St. Louis. About one-third
of the employees at the Danforth Center come from overseas. Flags of their 22
home countries hang in the atrium.

"These scientists are essential to the research being done here," said the
Danforth Center's president, James Carrington, who noted that some have gone on
to start their own companies.

And it's not just in high science.

Carmen Jacob saw an opportunity 15 years ago, when she heard some big local
companies say they had a hard time finding good information technology workers.
So she launched NextGen, an IT staffing agency downtown. Now she provides
workers on a contract basis to big companies such as AT&T, Ameren and Monsanto.

A native Guatemalan, Jacob came to St. Louis 24 years ago. She said there are
challenges to breaking into a male-dominated industry. But, she's found, if you
provide a good service, people will hire you.

"You have to hustle," she said.

For many newcomers, it helps to have a network. There have long been Bosnian and
Hispanic chambers of commerce in St. Louis, and last year a new Asian-American
chamber launched. The International Institute of St. Louis has helped about 500
resettled refugees start businesses, said Crosslin.

But compared with many places, there are fewer resources here for immigrants to
plug into the broader business world.

Changing that dynamic is one of the goals of the city and county leaders who
commissioned Strauss' study and organized Tuesday's conference - which included
a panel discussion with Jacob, Crosslin, Regional Chamber and Growth Association
president Joe Reagan and moderated by Post-Dispatch editor Gilbert Bailon. The
city and county also launched a committee to keep studying the issue, and to
recommend specific programs that can make St. Louis more welcoming to
immigrants.

"It's an open book as to what," said Denny Coleman, president of the St. Louis
County Economic Council. "We know we just need to do a lot more."

The study pointed to cities such as Nashville, Tenn., and Louisville, Ky., which
have launched broad campaigns to better integrate immigrants into the local
business community, and to immigrant resource centers in Cleveland and
Philadelphia, designed to ease the transitions of newcomers.

In the meantime, informal immigrant networks keep growing here.

That's what Rao Chilakala has seen in the 12 years he's lived in St. Louis. A
native of Andhra Pradesh, in southern India, Chilakala moved here on an H1B visa
to work as a programmer. Today he's a U.S. citizen and owner of Mayuri Indian
restaurant in Creve Coeur. Along the way, he's organized South Asian festivals
and launched a website full of resources for the South Asian community - listing
everything from groceries to temples to where you can see the latest Bollywood
hits.

"There are 10 Indian groceries here now," he said. "A decade ago? One or two."

Chilakala gets a lot of college students through his restaurant, especially
Indian students from Missouri or neighboring states who are visiting St. Louis
for the weekend. There's more opportunity for them back home than there used to
be, he says. But they'd likely move here, he says, if they could.

"If you have opportunities, people will come," he said in between ringing out
customers at Mayuri. "Once they come here and find out what St. Louis is, they
stay."

---

4.5%

The percentage of metro St. Louis residents - about 126,500 people - who are
foreign-born. Most large metro areas have rates four to five times higher.

4 to 5%

How much higher job growth would be if St. Louis attracted more immigrants.

7 to 11%

The total income increase if St. Louis had attracted immigrants at the same rate
as the U.S. over the last decade.

44%

The percentage of immigrants who are likely to have a college degree.

60%

The percentage of immigrants who are more likely to start a business than the
average St. Louisan.

$83,000

The average income of an immigrant family in St. Louis, 25 percent more than
native-born St. Louisans.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photos by J.B. Forbes  o jforbes@post-dispatch.com Restaurateur o  Rao
Chilakala, 41, finally gets a chance to eat Tuesday at his Indian restaurant,
Mayuri, in Creve Coeur. He came to St. Louis from India 12 years ago.  Scientist
o  Researcher Guohong Mao, 45, who came to the U.S. seven years ago from China,
experiments on grapes and wine Tuesday at the Danforth Plant Science Center in
Olivette.  Flags representing the 22 nationalities of workers at the Danforth
Plant Science Center fly over the company's cafe on Tuesday. Foreign-born
residents in St. Louis are 44 percent more likely to have a college degree, and
60 percent more likely to start a business, a study says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration issue is suddenly a hot topic in presidential race Latino vote may
be key in close contest between Obama, Romney. NAITON

BYLINE: JIM KUHNHENN AND STEVE PEOPLES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: 0


ORLANDO, Fla. - No longer a back-burner issue, immigration is roiling the
presidential contest as President Barack Obama and Republican Mitt Romney seek
to court the nation's swelling Hispanic population. The outcome could influence
political battle lines and shape American politics for generations.

By week's end, both candidates will address the same Latino political convention
in Florida, showcasing contrasting political ideologies at a pivotal time. The
Supreme Court is about to render judgment on a get-tough Arizona law, and just
last week the Democratic president announced plans to ease deportation rules for
some children of illegal immigrants.

With Election Day less than five months away, Hispanic voters are energized and
paying close attention, said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which hosts this week's
convention.

"There's a lot at stake. We're talking about a significant share of the American
electorate that could well decide this election," Vargas said. "It's only now
that both candidates are turning their attention to the Latino vote."

Indeed, both sides are crafting aggressive strategies to appeal to a demographic
that is by no means monolithic but has supported Democrats in recent elections.
Some Republicans fear - and Democrats hope - that Obama could capitalize on this
moment to help solidify Hispanic voters as predominantly Democratic this fall
and for years to come, much as President Lyndon Johnson hardened the black vote
for Democrats as he pushed the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The stakes are high not only for states with larger Hispanic populations such as
Florida, Nevada and Colorado, but for a growing number of other battlegrounds -
Ohio, North Carolina and Virginia, among them - where even a modest shift among
Latino voters could be significant. The United States' Latino population surged
from about 35 million in 2000 to 50 million in 2010, according to the Census
Bureau.

As the presidential candidates head to the Florida convention, Obama is riding a
wave of Latino enthusiasm over his decision to allow hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work. Under the administration
plan, illegal immigrants can avoid deportation if they can prove they were
brought to the United States before they turned 16 and are younger than 30, have
been in the country for at least five continuous years, have no criminal
history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a GED or served in the
military.

The new policy could help anywhere from 800,000 young immigrants - the
administration's estimate - to the Pew Hispanic Center's estimate of 1.4
million.

The move was politically timely, in the heat of the campaign and with Obama
needing to energize a key part of his base of supporters - many of whom had
grown disenchanted over the past three years. Though the direct beneficiaries of
the directive can't vote for Obama, his action has widespread support among
American Latinos.

In fact, Obama has long enjoyed support among Hispanics - he won 67 percent of
the Latino vote in 2008.

But he risked losing their enthusiasm, partly because Hispanics have been among
the hardest hit by the economic slowdown. Obama also lost some support because
he hasn't fulfilled promises of a comprehensive overhaul of the immigration
system and because his administration has been aggressively deporting illegal
immigrants. A poll in December by the Pew Hispanic Center showed that 59 percent
of Latinos disapproved of the president's handling of deportations.

Obama senior adviser David Axelrod predicts that the president could exceed his
2008 performance with Hispanics this year, noting that his opponent then was
Sen. John McCain, who had initially pushed for an overhaul of the immigration
system.

Axelrod contends that Romney is "hopelessly twisted up on this issue."

Obama had troubles of his own before the administration announced the recent
initiative. Supporters of many illegal immigrants - students as well as workers
- had been mounting protests at Obama campaign headquarters this month in places
such as Denver and Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration issue is suddenly a hot topic in presidential race Latino vote may
be key in close contest between Obama, Romney.

BYLINE: JIM KUHNHENN AND STEVE PEOPLES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: 0


ORLANDO, Fla. - No longer a back-burner issue, immigration is roiling the
presidential contest as President Barack Obama and Republican Mitt Romney seek
to court the nation's swelling Hispanic population. The outcome could influence
political battle lines and shape American politics for generations.

By week's end, both candidates will address the same Latino political convention
in Florida, showcasing contrasting political ideologies at a pivotal time. The
Supreme Court is about to render judgment on a get-tough Arizona law, and just
last week the Democratic president announced plans to ease deportation rules for
some children of illegal immigrants.

With Election Day less than five months away, Hispanic voters are energized and
paying close attention, said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which hosts this week's
convention.

"There's a lot at stake. We're talking about a significant share of the American
electorate that could well decide this election," Vargas said. "It's only now
that both candidates are turning their attention to the Latino vote."

Indeed, both sides are crafting aggressive strategies to appeal to a demographic
that is by no means monolithic but has supported Democrats in recent elections.
Some Republicans fear - and Democrats hope - that Obama could capitalize on this
moment to help solidify Hispanic voters as predominantly Democratic this fall
and for years to come, much as President Lyndon Johnson hardened the black vote
for Democrats as he pushed the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The stakes are high not only for states with larger Hispanic populations such as
Florida, Nevada and Colorado, but for a growing number of other battlegrounds -
Ohio, North Carolina and Virginia, among them - where even a modest shift among
Latino voters could be significant. The United States' Latino population surged
from about 35 million in 2000 to 50 million in 2010, according to the Census
Bureau.

As the presidential candidates head to the Florida convention, Obama is riding a
wave of Latino enthusiasm over his decision to allow hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work. Under the administration
plan, illegal immigrants can avoid deportation if they can prove they were
brought to the United States before they turned 16 and are younger than 30, have
been in the country for at least five continuous years, have no criminal
history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a GED or served in the
military.

The new policy could help anywhere from 800,000 young immigrants - the
administration's estimate - to the Pew Hispanic Center's estimate of 1.4
million.

The move was politically timely, in the heat of the campaign and with Obama
needing to energize a key part of his base of supporters - many of whom had
grown disenchanted over the past three years. Though the direct beneficiaries of
the directive can't vote for Obama, his action has widespread support among
American Latinos.

In fact, Obama has long enjoyed support among Hispanics - he won 67 percent of
the Latino vote in 2008.

But he risked losing their enthusiasm, partly because Hispanics have been among
the hardest hit by the economic slowdown. Obama also lost some support because
he hasn't fulfilled promises of a comprehensive overhaul of the immigration
system and because his administration has been aggressively deporting illegal
immigrants. A poll in December by the Pew Hispanic Center showed that 59 percent
of Latinos disapproved of the president's handling of deportations.

Obama senior adviser David Axelrod predicts that the president could exceed his
2008 performance with Hispanics this year, noting that his opponent then was
Sen. John McCain, who had initially pushed for an overhaul of the immigration
system.

Axelrod contends that Romney is "hopelessly twisted up on this issue."

Obama had troubles of his own before the administration announced the recent
initiative. Supporters of many illegal immigrants - students as well as workers
- had been mounting protests at Obama campaign headquarters this month in places
such as Denver and Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The immigrant factor Our view o Once more with feeling: St. Louis must open its
arms. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: 0


On Tuesday, economic development officials from St. Louis and St. Louis County
revealed a study that said (a) immigration is good for a city's business climate
and (b) the St. Louis region has 80 percent fewer foreign-born residents than
other large metro areas, which is a big reason why the area's economy is
lagging.

Had they unveiled the wheel, we could not have been less surprised.

This is not to denigrate St. Louis University economist Jack Strauss' 48-page
study (plus footnotes, references and demographic maps) of the economic impact
of immigration on the region. It is a persuasive piece of scholarship that
quantifies the benefits of welcoming foreign-born talent:

- Had St. Louis attracted immigrants in the past decade as fast as other large
metro areas, income growth here would have been 4 percent to 7 percent higher,
total income would have been 7 percent to 11 percent higher and job growth would
have increased by 4 percent to 5 percent.

- Encouraging immigration, by spawning economic growth, would lower the
unemployment rate among black and white workers by 2 percent.

- Immigrants are 60 percent more likely to start a business than the average St.
Louisan. They are 44 percent more likely to have a college degree.

- Average household income among immigrant families is $83,000 a year.

Many other metro areas, as Mr. Strauss noted, are well aware of the immigrant
factor. They have developed "economic and social policies that embrace, rather
than drive away, this vital workforce," he said.

The policies are not rocket science (though if Boeing needed a rocket scientist,
plenty of immigrants would qualify). Other cities do things as simple as create
central information clearinghouses, a welcoming network and business-government
partnerships to encourage immigrant-friendly policies.

St. Louis has the excellent but underfunded International Institute on South
Grand Boulevard, which reaches out to refugees and low-income immigrants.
High-tech firms and universities can recruit scientists and physicians. But
business and civic outreach programs for mid-range professionals are in short
supply.

"This initiative is less about dollars than a change in mind-set of our local
business leaders and public," Mr. Strauss wrote. "The region needs to view
immigration as an opportunity, not a threat - a chance to hire the best."

One important step that the St. Louis business community should take right away:
Sit down with the Republican leaders of the Missouri Legislature and tell them
to stop their members from immigrant-bashing. Threaten their campaign funds.

What sort of message is the "business-friendly" Legislature sending when the
House passes legislation mandating that drivers license exams must be offered
only in English? Or when a state Senate committee endorses a bill mirroring
provisions of Alabama's and Arizona's "show me your papers" laws?

What would ambitious and entrepreneurial immigrants think of the immortal words
uttered in 2011 by state Rep. John Cauthorn, a Republican from (of all the towns
in Missouri) Mexico: "The average guy on the streets hates Spanish, and it is
everywhere. To the average guy, that is important. We're almost to the point of
losing our identity as a nation."

Xenophobia strikes deep. Narrow minds confronted with facts often close. But, as
Mr. Strauss' study emphasizes, immigrants don't take away jobs, they create
them. It is how St. Louis grew, and it is how St. Louis can grow again.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The immigrant factor Our view o Once more with feeling: St. Louis must open its
arms.

BYLINE: |||

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: 0


On Tuesday, economic development officials from St. Louis and St. Louis County
revealed a study that said (a) immigration is good for a city's business climate
and (b) the St. Louis region has 80 percent fewer foreign-born residents than
other large metro areas, which is a big reason why the area's economy is
lagging.

Had they unveiled the wheel, we could not have been less surprised.

This is not to denigrate St. Louis University economist Jack Strauss' 48-page
study (plus footnotes, references and demographic maps) of the economic impact
of immigration on the region. It is a persuasive piece of scholarship that
quantifies the benefits of welcoming foreign-born talent:

- Had St. Louis attracted immigrants in the past decade as fast as other large
metro areas, income growth here would have been 4 percent to 7 percent higher,
total income would have been 7 percent to 11 percent higher and job growth would
have increased by 4 percent to 5 percent.

- Encouraging immigration, by spawning economic growth, would lower the
unemployment rate among black and white workers by 2 percent.

- Immigrants are 60 percent more likely to start a business than the average St.
Louisan. They are 44 percent more likely to have a college degree.

- Average household income among immigrant families is $83,000 a year.

Many other metro areas, as Mr. Strauss noted, are well aware of the immigrant
factor. They have developed "economic and social policies that embrace, rather
than drive away, this vital workforce," he said.

The policies are not rocket science (though if Boeing needed a rocket scientist,
plenty of immigrants would qualify). Other cities do things as simple as create
central information clearinghouses, a welcoming network and business-government
partnerships to encourage immigrant-friendly policies.

St. Louis has the excellent but underfunded International Institute on South
Grand Boulevard, which reaches out to refugees and low-income immigrants.
High-tech firms and universities can recruit scientists and physicians. But
business and civic outreach programs for mid-range professionals are in short
supply.

"This initiative is less about dollars than a change in mind-set of our local
business leaders and public," Mr. Strauss wrote. "The region needs to view
immigration as an opportunity, not a threat - a chance to hire the best."

One important step that the St. Louis business community should take right away:
Sit down with the Republican leaders of the Missouri Legislature and tell them
to stop their members from immigrant-bashing. Threaten their campaign funds.

What sort of message is the "business-friendly" Legislature sending when the
House passes legislation mandating that drivers license exams must be offered
only in English? Or when a state Senate committee endorses a bill mirroring
provisions of Alabama's and Arizona's "show me your papers" laws?

What would ambitious and entrepreneurial immigrants think of the immortal words
uttered in 2011 by state Rep. John Cauthorn, a Republican from (of all the towns
in Missouri) Mexico: "The average guy on the streets hates Spanish, and it is
everywhere. To the average guy, that is important. We're almost to the point of
losing our identity as a nation."

Xenophobia strikes deep. Narrow minds confronted with facts often close. But, as
Mr. Strauss' study emphasizes, immigrants don't take away jobs, they create
them. It is how St. Louis grew, and it is how St. Louis can grow again.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

YOUR VIEWS o LETTERS FROM OUR READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: 0


Better parenting, education also are answers for St. Louis economy

Regarding "Rx for St. Louis Economy: More immigration" (June 19): St. Louis
University economics professor Jack Strauss' conclusion that St. Louis needs
more immigration was rightfully based on their work, risk and education ethic.
But as an engineer more than 80 years old, another conclusion also might be
reached: St. Louis (and the nation) might need more and better parenting and
education in business, science, engineering and math.

Parenting in the typical family structure today generally is consumed with
television, frivolous activities and unearned trinkets to play with. The schools
compound that problem with easy and soft, feel-good subjects that do little to
make the student competitive with immigrants who will work hard, take risks and
leave them in the dust.

Gene Adam - Town and Country

Send them here

Regarding "Rx for St. Louis Economy: More immigration" (June 19): If the study
by Jack Strauss, an economics professor at St. Louis University, about
immigrants is valid, then city officials, good Democrats all, really blew it.
They should have encouraged President Barack Obama to move the children of the
illegal immigrants to St. Louis. We then would have tranquility, peace, harmony
and more people to tax. Nirvana!

Fred H. Stout - Pacific

Illegal immigration needs attention

The story "Rx for St. Louis Economy: More immigration" (June 19) said, "While
public debate often focuses on low-skilled, low-wage immigrants...." I strongly
disagree. Add the word "illegal" in front of "immigrants," and I strongly agree.
The story said, "most people who move from abroad to the U.S. tend to be highly
educated and entrepreneurial." That should be no surprise. Legal immigration
policy requires that the immigrant possess the skills and education necessary to
obtain a job, and that job, in most cases, must be waiting for him before he
applies.

Perhaps St. Louis economic development officials should spend a few more tax
dollars on a study with the same parameters but with regard to illegal
immigrants.

That is the issue that needs our attention.

Barbara Richter - Chesterfield

Justifying the means

Jack Strauss' position, as stated in "Rx for St. Louis Economy: More
immigration" (June 19), is one man's opinion. The Post-Dispatch editorial "The
immigrant factor" (June 21) was the expected liberal position.

My right-wing position supports legal immigration, as it was when my parents
came to this country and, by and large, the way it still is (although,
apparently, it's not being enforced).

People are welcome to this country but must go through the required procedure.
Left-wingers don't care about the procedure or the law. Because the left thinks
the end justifies the means, the left and the right always clash.

Angelo Dendrinelis - Ballwin

Distracted and curious

Regarding "After 4 years, lost dog is back" (June 15) While it is heartwarming
that a lost dog was returned to its owners four years after it was lost, it is
disturbing that in the course of four years, this family has had two pets
"vanish." The latest was a declawed cat.

What responsible pet owner lets a declawed cat out of the house near a wooded
area inhabited by coyotes? How did the dog just vanish four years ago? Is there
a fenced yard? Was it on a lead?

We have owned five dogs over the past 20 years, and not one of them has
"vanished." It is not responsible to let an unleashed dog or cat out of the
house with the hope that it will stay around the house and find its way back.
They are animals after all, they get distracted, are curious and, unfortunately,
sometimes are prey, like the chubby declawed cat named Jayda.

Susan Treis - Imperial

Poor judgment

The killing of three of our soldiers by a suicide bomber in Afghanistan was so
unimportant that the Post-Dispatch buried the article in back of the A section
("Afghanistan attacks kills 3 U.S. soldiers," June 21), but it put a story about
souvenirs of our beloved Cardinals on the front page ("Hot market for souvenir
bling," June 21).

Thank goodness our grandson came back from Afghanistan a short time ago, safe
and sound.

Jean Simpson - St. Charles

Access to documents

Regarding "Holder is cited for contempt by panel" (June 21): Regardless of who
is in the White House, is anyone else concerned that the executive branch can
forbid elected representatives from seeing any of its documents?

Certainly congressional leadership, although probably not every member of
Congress, should have access to documents to ensure the public that there is
some oversight.

Frank Serdy - St. Louis

Stopping the violence

The parents of an agent killed by a gun involved in the Fast and Furious program
may make the situation political. The parents should think about their
accusations for the sake of their son, who died in an attempt to stop gun
violence.

We must remember that this was his job, and it is a dangerous job. Family
members must understand the possibility of their loved one being killed while
performing these assignments.

Members of law enforcement are trying to make a better, safer place for
citizens. This is not political. This is real life. And real life require
sacrifices. These agents and officers deserve the truth about what is causing
the violence - in this case, gun violence and illegal gun purchases and
distribution. Attacking the president, Attorney General Eric Holder and the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms isn't going to solve the problem. The
answer to why this happened is not them. It has to do with high volumes of
illegal weapons and their distributions and reasons of usage.

Going after government officials trying to make it seem like they are the reason
for this violence and killings is not going to solve the problems of the
killings. Why? Because you are not doing anything to stop the trafficking of
these illegal weapons.

I hope this family will avoid the political game. It will not help their son's
memory and sacrifice. Going after what is causing the killings will give honor
to their son.

Sharon Cooper-Lyons - Macon, Mo.

Following the law

The editorial "Fast, furious, shaky" (June 22) said, "That doesn't mean
[conservative critics of the Administration's handling of the Fast and Furious
debacle] are wrong - just hypocritical for supporting no-limits gun laws and
then complaining when the genie gets out of the bottle."

Wait, what? Is the Post-Dispatch suggesting that the federal government
illegally supplying criminals with firearms is grounds for stricter gun control?
Seriously? That's like saying, "We're sorry U.S. Citizens, but if we bureaucrats
can't be bothered to follow the law, then we're certain you can't either." Wow.
Just wow.

Mark Sletten - St. Jacob

More than one

Well, it happened again. The editorial "Private parts" (June 22) treats the
subject of legalized abortion as a question only of a woman's right to choose
what to do with her body.

When a woman is pregnant, there three are persons involved: the mother, the
father and the fetus. In abortion discussions, only one of these three is given
any rights. The fetus apparently has no rights, and the father's rights are
ignored. Why is that?

Fred Houska - Maryland Heights

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MATSON'S VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

American girl Editorial notebook o Marie Gonzalez shows the way for new
"dreamers."

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: 0


When she was a sophomore in high school, Marie Gonzalez realized she was one of
"those people."

She was 16 and a student in Jefferson City. She went to apply for a driver's
license. She didn't have the proper paperwork. It turns out she was an
undocumented immigrant.

Her parents had brought her to the United States from Costa Rica when she was 4.
At the age of 6, she was interpreting for them as they navigated owning a
business and buying a home.

She felt like an American. But then she found out she couldn't drive. She
couldn't work. "Oh my gosh, I'm one of those people," she thought.

Soon, Ms. Gonzalez would become the national face of hundreds of thousands of
young immigrants who entered the country illegally through no fault of their
own. In 2007, she went to Washington, D.C., at the request of Sen. Dick Durbin,
D-Ill., to advocate for the DREAM Act, a law that would give these young people
contributing to the nation a path to citizenship.

The bill failed as the Republican Party veered farther and farther to the right,
favoring policies that put a wall around a nation that was built by immigrants.

On April 1, 2005, Ms. Gonzalez received the first of what would be several
deportation waivers, after Missouri's senators and congressmen went to bat for
her. Her parents were sent home. She stayed, graduated from high school and
college. She got married. She got a job.

From Kansas City, she cheered last week when President Barack Obama made sure
that "dreamers" like her could avoid deportation while the nation's politicians
figure out how to fix a clearly broken immigration system.

Under Mr. Obama's executive order, those dreamers can avoid, at least
temporarily, the life Ms. Gonzalez has had to lead for the past several years.
Until she got married, each year she'd reapply for a waiver, and each year, she
would wait.

"It's been a constant waiting game," she said. "There was always this period of
several weeks or months where I was just stuck. I couldn't drive. I couldn't
work. It was a really hard time."

She married her college sweetheart in a civil ceremony in 2009. On Thanksgiving
the next year, she and her new husband and about 30 of their friends flew to
Costa Rica for a church ceremony. Her father, Marvin, was recovering from
prostate cancer.

When they arrived, Marvin was jubilant. By the time they got to her parents'
house, he had collapsed. He died at the hospital that day. On Friday, they
buried him. On Saturday, she and her husband were married for the second time.
She doesn't remember much of the ceremony.

One of the numerous tragedies in this case is that like many immigrants, Ms.
Gonzalez and her family came here legally, on a visa. They were given advice
that if they stayed and put down roots, they could become citizens. They did
stay and put down roots, but the advice was wrong.

"I think it's a great step in the right direction," Ms. Gonzalez said of the
president's executive order. "It's not a solution, but it provides a little bit
of hope."

- Tony Messenger

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MATSON'S VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration issue is suddenly a hot topic in presidential race Latino vote may
be key in close contest between Obama, Romney.

BYLINE: JIM KUHNHENN AND STEVE PEOPLES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: 0


ORLANDO, Fla. - No longer a back-burner issue, immigration is roiling the
presidential contest as President Barack Obama and Republican Mitt Romney seek
to court the nation's swelling Hispanic population. The outcome could influence
political battle lines and shape American politics for generations.

By week's end, both candidates will address the same Latino political convention
in Florida, showcasing contrasting political ideologies at a pivotal time. The
Supreme Court is about to render judgment on a get-tough Arizona law, and just
last week the Democratic president announced plans to ease deportation rules for
some children of illegal immigrants.

With Election Day less than five months away, Hispanic voters are energized and
paying close attention, said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which hosts this week's
convention.

"There's a lot at stake. We're talking about a significant share of the American
electorate that could well decide this election," Vargas said. "It's only now
that both candidates are turning their attention to the Latino vote."

Indeed, both sides are crafting aggressive strategies to appeal to a demographic
that is by no means monolithic but has supported Democrats in recent elections.
Some Republicans fear - and Democrats hope - that Obama could capitalize on this
moment to help solidify Hispanic voters as predominantly Democratic this fall
and for years to come, much as President Lyndon Johnson hardened the black vote
for Democrats as he pushed the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The stakes are high not only for states with larger Hispanic populations such as
Florida, Nevada and Colorado, but for a growing number of other battlegrounds -
Ohio, North Carolina and Virginia, among them - where even a modest shift among
Latino voters could be significant. The United States' Latino population surged
from about 35 million in 2000 to 50 million in 2010, according to the Census
Bureau.

As the presidential candidates head to the Florida convention, Obama is riding a
wave of Latino enthusiasm over his decision to allow hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work. Under the administration
plan, illegal immigrants can avoid deportation if they can prove they were
brought to the United States before they turned 16 and are younger than 30, have
been in the country for at least five continuous years, have no criminal
history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a GED or served in the
military.

The new policy could help anywhere from 800,000 young immigrants - the
administration's estimate - to the Pew Hispanic Center's estimate of 1.4
million.

The move was politically timely, in the heat of the campaign and with Obama
needing to energize a key part of his base of supporters - many of whom had
grown disenchanted over the past three years. Though the direct beneficiaries of
the directive can't vote for Obama, his action has widespread support among
American Latinos.

In fact, Obama has long enjoyed support among Hispanics - he won 67 percent of
the Latino vote in 2008.

But he risked losing their enthusiasm, partly because Hispanics have been among
the hardest hit by the economic slowdown. Obama also lost some support because
he hasn't fulfilled promises of a comprehensive overhaul of the immigration
system and because his administration has been aggressively deporting illegal
immigrants. A poll in December by the Pew Hispanic Center showed that 59 percent
of Latinos disapproved of the president's handling of deportations.

Obama senior adviser David Axelrod predicts that the president could exceed his
2008 performance with Hispanics this year, noting that his opponent then was
Sen. John McCain, who had initially pushed for an overhaul of the immigration
system.

Axelrod contends that Romney is "hopelessly twisted up on this issue."

Obama had troubles of his own before the administration announced the recent
initiative. Supporters of many illegal immigrants - students as well as workers
- had been mounting protests at Obama campaign headquarters this month in places
such as Denver and Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The immigrant factor Our view o Once more with feeling: St. Louis must open its
arms.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: 0


On Tuesday, economic development officials from St. Louis and St. Louis County
revealed a study that said (a) immigration is good for a city's business climate
and (b) the St. Louis region has 80 percent fewer foreign-born residents than
other large metro areas, which is a big reason why the area's economy is
lagging.

Had they unveiled the wheel, we could not have been less surprised.

This is not to denigrate St. Louis University economist Jack Strauss' 48-page
study (plus footnotes, references and demographic maps) of the economic impact
of immigration on the region. It is a persuasive piece of scholarship that
quantifies the benefits of welcoming foreign-born talent:

- Had St. Louis attracted immigrants in the past decade as fast as other large
metro areas, income growth here would have been 4 percent to 7 percent higher,
total income would have been 7 percent to 11 percent higher and job growth would
have increased by 4 percent to 5 percent.

- Encouraging immigration, by spawning economic growth, would lower the
unemployment rate among black and white workers by 2 percent.

- Immigrants are 60 percent more likely to start a business than the average St.
Louisan. They are 44 percent more likely to have a college degree.

- Average household income among immigrant families is $83,000 a year.

Many other metro areas, as Mr. Strauss noted, are well aware of the immigrant
factor. They have developed "economic and social policies that embrace, rather
than drive away, this vital workforce," he said.

The policies are not rocket science (though if Boeing needed a rocket scientist,
plenty of immigrants would qualify). Other cities do things as simple as create
central information clearinghouses, a welcoming network and business-government
partnerships to encourage immigrant-friendly policies.

St. Louis has the excellent but underfunded International Institute on South
Grand Boulevard, which reaches out to refugees and low-income immigrants.
High-tech firms and universities can recruit scientists and physicians. But
business and civic outreach programs for mid-range professionals are in short
supply.

"This initiative is less about dollars than a change in mind-set of our local
business leaders and public," Mr. Strauss wrote. "The region needs to view
immigration as an opportunity, not a threat - a chance to hire the best."

One important step that the St. Louis business community should take right away:
Sit down with the Republican leaders of the Missouri Legislature and tell them
to stop their members from immigrant-bashing. Threaten their campaign funds.

What sort of message is the "business-friendly" Legislature sending when the
House passes legislation mandating that drivers license exams must be offered
only in English? Or when a state Senate committee endorses a bill mirroring
provisions of Alabama's and Arizona's "show me your papers" laws?

What would ambitious and entrepreneurial immigrants think of the immortal words
uttered in 2011 by state Rep. John Cauthorn, a Republican from (of all the towns
in Missouri) Mexico: "The average guy on the streets hates Spanish, and it is
everywhere. To the average guy, that is important. We're almost to the point of
losing our identity as a nation."

Xenophobia strikes deep. Narrow minds confronted with facts often close. But, as
Mr. Strauss' study emphasizes, immigrants don't take away jobs, they create
them. It is how St. Louis grew, and it is how St. Louis can grow again.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Obama thanks troops He hosts Fourth of July barbecue for service members,
families.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama marked the Fourth of July by thanking
service members and their families, who he said "represent what is best in
America."

The president, accompanied by Michelle Obama, hosted a barbecue and concert
Wednesday for the families on the White House South Lawn.

Obama saluted "this generation of heroes" for their service and sacrifice to
defend American freedoms, specifically thanking them for bringing Osama bin
Laden to justice and working to get out of Afghanistan.

He said the nation "will always be there for you, just as you've been there for
us." He said it was his promise, and America's promise.

Afterward, the Obamas shook hands and posed for pictures with eager visitors.
The U.S. Marine Band and country singer Brad Paisley performed.

Earlier, Obama marked the Fourth of July by welcoming two dozen U.S. service
members as newly sworn-in American citizens, saying the contributions they have
already made dramatize the need for Washington to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform.

"Immigration makes America stronger," Obama said. "Immigration makes us more
prosperous. Immigration positions America to lead in the 21st century."

The 25 active duty U.S. service members who became citizens Wednesday hailed
from 17 countries, including Mexico, Nigeria and Russia.

In front of an audience of family and friends, the service members were
administered the oath of allegiance by Secretary of Homeland Security Janet
Napolitano in the East Room of the White House.

Obama said the varied backgrounds of those taking the oath typified America's
long tradition of welcoming immigrants from around the world to its shores.

"Unless you are one of the first Americans, a native American, we are all
descended from folks who came from somewhere else," he said.

"The story of immigrants in America isn't a story of them. It's a story of us."

The president briefly touted his administration's move last month to stop
deporting young people who were brought to the country as children and joined
the U.S. military or went to college.

But he acknowledged there was more work to be done in order to achieve a
comprehensive overhaul of the immigration system.

Obama's lack of progress on this count has been a particular frustration for
many Hispanics, a key voting bloc in the November general election.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Associated Press President Barack Obama speaks from the White
House balcony as he and Michelle Obama start an Independence Day celebration
with a barbecue, concert and a view of fireworks Wednesday on the South Lawn of
the White House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 8, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

KETC goes national with series on immigration The three-part 'Homeland' is
Channel 9's first production to air in prime time on PBS.

BYLINE: ON TV BY GAIL PENNINGTON o Post-Dispatch Television Critic >
gpennington@post-dispatch.com

SECTION: A&E; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: 0


When KETC (Channel 9) was brainstorming a series on the divisive issue of
immigration, the station held a series of community meetings to get people's
thoughts.

"We found that participants mentioned illegal immigrants and border issues, or
what happened to their grandparents in the 1800s," senior producer Jim Kirchherr
recalls. "There was nothing in between."

Actually, there is much in between, including Missouri.

"We're not a border state, but Missouri and other states in the middle of the
country are dealing with immigrants and immigration, too, just not in the same
way," he says.

The result of those early conversations more than two years ago is "Homeland:
Immigration in America," a three-hour documentary that will be the first program
produced by KETC to air in prime time on PBS.

"Homeland," debuting Wednesday in St. Louis and later this month on PBS, is a
massive project that tells the story of refugees and the communities that accept
them, sometimes reluctantly; migrant workers and the companies that employ them,
legally or otherwise; aid workers who help them; and law enforcement officers
who pursue them.

"We looked for the stories first, people and stories that illustrated what we
are dealing with," Kirchherr says.

The series introduces young African refugees living in the dangerous Hodiamont
neighborhood in St. Louis; Hispanic immigrants who have settled in tiny Monett,
Mo., to work at a chicken-processing plant; and Mexican migrant workers who pick
Happy Apples in Washington, Mo.

Some stories didn't pan out, but others told themselves. Cameras were rolling at
the International Welcome School in St. Louis, an English-immersion school for
immigrant children, as staffers learned that a 15-year-old Eritrean student had
been shot to death.

With funding from the Missouri Film Commission, KETC began with the intent of
raising questions and leaving them unresolved, Kirchherr says.

"We weren't going to wrap them up neatly, because they are open-ended," he says.

But "Homeland" took a turn when the station submitted it to PBS, which accepted
the series as part of its election year news and public affairs coverage.

"We challenged ourselves to produce something that would be immediately relevant
to our community and our state, and to a national PBS audience," says Amy Shaw,
KETC's senior vice president of community engagement. "I think the challenge of
producing something that would meet the quality demands of PBS gave us something
to work toward."

KETC previously produced the cooking series "Breaking Bread With Father Dom" and
the special "A Time for Champions," about the U.S. soccer victory over England
in 1950, both of which aired on public TV stations.

But "Homeland" marks its first national prime-time exposure.

When PBS accepted the series last September, Kirchherr's job got a little
harder.

"We had to rework it to make it less like an indie film and more like a news
documentary," he says. "Part of that was making it less cinematic, taking out a
lot of music."

Kirchherr and Anne-Marie Berger, the series' other senior producer, turned for
advice to Leo Eaton, who has worked with PBS for more than 30 years.

"He gave us a lot of guidance," Kirchherr says. "But he also reminded us that
it's the stories that really matter."

Reworking "Homeland" for PBS, the producers also dropped leaving stories
open-ended.

"If you're making a news program, you don't withhold the news," Kirchherr says.

Viewers will hear from people on all sides of immigration issues, including a
vocal Tea Party supporter, an immigration lawyer and immigrants themselves. KCPT
in Kansas City, a co-producer on the series, pitched in coverage of police
officers coping with immigrant problems there.

Local audiences may be a bit surprised that St. Louis isn't mentioned more, even
in stories that clearly take place here.

Eaton advised them to present the broad picture as much as possible, Kirchherr
says.

"He told us, you're making a film for PBS, not for Channel 9," Kirchherr says.
"If it seems too local, too provincial, it will seem like a local film. The
things we're reporting on really could be happening anywhere."

St. Louis is especially prominent in "Refugees," which airs Wednesday. "Jobs,"
airing July 18, features Monett (in the Ozarks of far southwest Missouri) and
Washington. "Enforcement" brings in the Bootheel and Kansas City.

Kirchherr, who has put 2 1/2 years into "Homeland," hasn't had time to sit back
and enjoy the results.

"Overall, I think it's pretty good," he says. "I think it should get a reaction.
As we said in the beginning, it's a great topic, if you're willing to take the
heat."

His hope: "That people who watch will think hard about it."

---

'HOMELAND: IMMIGRATION IN AMERICA'

When - 8 p.m. Wednesday, July 18 and July 25

Where - KETC (Channel 9)

More info - KETC will screen segments from "Homeland" at 4 p.m. Sunday at the
Tivoli Theatre, 6350 Delmar Boulevard in University City. Ray Suarez of PBS
NewsHour, who narrates the film, will lead a discussion after the screening.
Free tickets for the screening, part of the Cinema St. Louis Filmmakers
Showcase, are available in advance at the Tivoli box office.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo - A scene from the PBS documentary "Homeland: Immigration in
America." The three-part series, produced by Channel 9 in St. Louis, tells the
story of contemporary immigration in America.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: 0


Mad cow called isolated case

A California Holstein discovered to have mad cow disease in April was an
isolated case and didn't pose a threat to the food supply, a report issued
Friday by the U.S. Department of Agriculture said.

A three-month investigation looked into the movements of the infected dairy cow,
her offspring and the food eaten by the herd. The investigation turned up no
other cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

Immigrants to pay $465 for temporary work permits - President Barack Obama's
administration said Friday that it would begin charging $465 this month for
temporary work permits for many young illegal immigrants, as it laid out details
of one of its signature new policies on immigration.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will begin accepting applications Aug.
15 for the permits, which are subject to renewal for two years. It will consider
a limited number of fee exemptions but expects costs to be shouldered by
applicants, not taxpayers.

Ex-Alabama governor going back to prison - After years of appeals and a vocal
campaign by supporters, ex-Alabama Gov. Don Siegelman is heading back to prison
after being sentenced Friday to more than six years for bribery and other
convictions.

Siegelman, 66, a Democrat, and former HealthSouth chief Richard Scrushy were
convicted in 2006. They arranged $500,000 in contributions to Siegelman's
campaign for a state lottery to fund education programs in exchange for the
governor's appointing Scrushy to an important hospital regulatory board.

U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller acknowledged the good things Siegelman had
accomplished in his years of public service that spanned nearly three decades.
But he said they did not justify the crimes for which he was convicted.

Siegelmano served one term as governor, from 1999 to 2003. He was originally
sentenced to more than seven years in prison. Fuller sentenced him to 6 1/2
years. He served about nine months before being released pending his appeals.

- For more national news, go to stltoday.com/nation.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Digest

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

A sense of change in St. Ann City criticized for its approach to Latinos may get
Hispanic police chief.

BYLINE: BY JESSE BOGAN jbogan@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8255

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1905 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. ANN - Police Lt. Aaron Jimenez was halfway through a meal of braised
boneless chicken, ordered not spicy, when his phone rang again. Even though he
was taking a comp day from work to paint a house, his cell went off so much that
the ring tone, set to a Mexican song, sounded like a CD stuck on repeat.

This time it was Alderman Amy Poelker. Following up on a question from a
constituent, she wanted to know how Jimenez planned to deal with the thorny
issue of undocumented immigration.

Jimenez is aiming to be the next police chief in St. Ann, a working-class suburb
of 13,000 people that is marked by a huge closed mall and complaints about
police being too aggressive with Hispanics.

"I think it will change," Jimenez, 37, told Poelker about the culture of the
police department. "I think I have a different outlook."

But Jimenez was quick to add that he's not police chief yet, and, regardless,
each officer has discretion to strictly enforce the law or give breaks.

In 2011, St. Ann police searched Hispanics 10 times more often than whites
during traffic stops, according to data submitted to the state. Officers
routinely alert U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that is in
charge of deporting people, when they find somebody driving without a license.

Though the number of traffic stops involving Hispanics has dropped in recent
years, critics fear St. Ann police tread dangerously close to immigration
enforcement, a federal responsibility. Hispanic-owned businesses say they have
taken a hit because customers are too scared to drive through town.

But most voting residents apparently have agreed with the hard-nose efforts by
supporting the sitting police chief, Robert Schrader. In St. Ann, police chief
is an elected position, similar to a town marshal, and Schrader is finishing his
sixth four-year term.

Now, he wants Jimenez to replace him, in an election to be held in April 2013.

Jimenez grew up in the U.S., doesn't speak Spanish and pronounces his name
JIM-enez, not HE-menez, as most Hispanics do. He is in the awkward position of
trying to respect his boss while promising change.

When he hung up the phone with Alderman Poelker, he dug back into his lunch. He
said he didn't like the politics that go along with being in charge of the
department, which patrols about 3 square miles with about 60 officers, including
reserve officers.

He said the department is caught in the middle of a national immigration debate
that he wishes would move forward. Until then, many police departments feel they
are in a difficult corner. Some call federal authorities if they think they've
detained an undocumented immigrant, some don't.

"You can cut people a break being a police officer," Jimenez said. "We have some
police officers, they have a no-nonsense policy. That's not against the law.
They are doing their job."

Jimenez recalled recently handing out his cellphone number at a Hispanic
festival at Holy Trinity, a Roman Catholic parish in St. Ann. He told residents
he would do anything he could to help them - so long as it's legal.

A LOOK BACK

Chief Schrader prefers answering to the public than City Hall. He has an
open-door policy in which residents stop by with fresh tomatoes or to chat in
his office, which is decorated like a West Texas gun museum. There's a mix of 40
rifles, shotguns and pistols from his personal collection.

An 1866 Winchester hangs in a glass case, across from two AR-15s and a box of
clips resting in a maroon leather chair. A new 12-gauge shotgun leans against a
window, and a 1921 Colt .38 Special is mounted in a holster under his desk
because, he said, "you never know."

"Some people call me marshal, some call me chief, some people call me things I
can't tell you," Schrader, 56, said with a smile.

His grandmother, Wilhemina, named after the German emperor, and other family
members farmed in the area decades before St. Ann became a town in the 1940s.

Schrader ditched driving a bulldozer in 1977 to join the St. Ann police force.
Elected chief in 1989, he has gone through seven mayors and witnessed the town
lose its economic might. Sales tax revenue from Northwest Plaza, once one of the
largest malls in the country, paid half of St. Ann's operating budget before it
gradually shut down in recent years. Today, Shop 'n Save is the largest revenue
source for the city. The mayor is touting a tax hike to help maintain parks.

St. Ann has plenty of affordable housing, including near Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport, ever since Trans World Airlines closed its hub. The
housing has attracted immigrants, some of whom came to fix storm damage in north
St. Louis County. According to census figures, 6 percent of the population is
Hispanic.

Schrader says his policy is unwavering: If you're caught driving without a
license, you'll be arrested. And he claims the majority of St. Ann residents are
on his side.

Though ICE has said in recent years that its priority is to deport undocumented
immigrants with serious criminal histories, Schrader agrees with contacting the
agency each time an officer cannot verify a suspect's identity. What if the
suspect, he asked, is wanted for murder or human trafficking?

"I don't care if (ICE) takes them or not," he said. "But we are going to make
the call."

He has repeated his position at community meetings and one time directly to the
Hispanic congregation at Holy Trinity.

"It's the priest's and sister's job to bring you to God," he said he told the
congregation. "It's my job to bring you to justice - if you break the law."

AGGRESSIVE TACTICS?

In 2006, St. Ann police wrote 371 traffic tickets to Hispanics; of those cases,
two-thirds involved searches and arrests, according to racial profiling data
submitted by police to the Missouri attorney general's office. Whites were
searched 16 percent of the time but had a much higher rate of being found with
contraband.

In 2011, the number of tickets issued to Hispanics fell to 52, with a third
involving searches. Schrader speculated that the numbers dropped because fewer
Latinos are coming through town, or those who do are driving more carefully.

By comparison, Maryland Heights wrote 321 traffic tickets to Hispanics in 2011
and executed searches 17 percent of the time; Breckenridge Hills issued 112
tickets to Hispanics and performed searches in 5 percent of those cases.

Elias Jurtado, who runs La Mexicana Tienda with his wife and two kids, said St.
Ann police were so aggressive that in 2011 he moved the family business selling
piñatas, telephone cards, groceries and music down St. Charles Rock Road, to
neighboring Breckenridge Hills. The space is cheaper, but he said there's one
clear reason why he moved.

"Plain and simple - the police," he said of St. Ann. "Nobody can go there."

His former storefront in St. Ann sits vacant at a busy intersection near City
Hall.

Ernestina Zegar, 67, owner of the Acapulco Restaurant and Lounge, which opened
in St. Ann in the 1990s, said more people used to frequent her business for food
and live Mexican music on Saturday nights, but dark-skinned customers got scared
of being pulled over.

"It hurt my business, but I've been here long enough that I am strong enough to
survive," she said.

Schrader said St. Ann police have higher search and arrest rates among Hispanics
than surrounding areas because the city has a place to put them. The jail in St.
Ann is much bigger than others in nearby towns. It sleeps 42, not including a
pen for short-timers and a juvenile area.

The expansion of the jail is part of Schrader's legacy. When he joined the
police force in the 1970s, St. Ann's jail had a capacity of four inmates.

"People who do their crimes and nefarious acts usually hang around a place that
doesn't have a jail," he said.

The seasoned chief reflects on his career with satisfaction. But he said he's
ready to try something different.

Once the campaign gets going, Schrader said, he'll knock on doors for Jimenez.

"It's time to turn it over to somebody that's younger and more energetic and not
as set in his ways," Schrader said.

HUMBLE BACKGROUND

Jimenez's father is from Mexico, while his mother, of German ancestry, hails
from Iowa. As a baby, he lived in South Texas. But after his parents divorced,
he and his two young brothers moved with their mother to St. Ann because a
friend told her about job opportunities. One brother eventually became a pipe
fitter, while the other oversees the FBI's public corruption office in Miami.

Jimenez said the family grew up "dirt poor" and didn't get to know the Latino
side of his family. A St. Ann grocer sometimes gave them free bread. His mother
supported the family by managing a photography studio in Famous-Barr at
Northwest Plaza and with other jobs. She eventually worked her way through law
school at St. Louis University.

After high school, Jimenez got married and painted houses in Oregon before
moving back to St. Ann to pursue a police career. Today, he's in charge of
detectives and is the department's public information officer, responsible for
outreach to the community.

Donna Gamache, 60, a volunteer on St. Ann's economic development committee, said
she's glad Schrader isn't seeking re-election; she is optimistic about the
perspective a new chief will bring.

"Getting Schrader out of there will get the intimidation factor out of there,"
she said. "That image doesn't help us in terms of bringing in regional shoppers
and new development."

Gloria Delgado, 32, who works in a restaurant kitchen, wasn't sure what to think
about Jimenez as a replacement. Because she speaks only Spanish, she said she
would hesitate to call the police if there was an emergency.

She spoke in Spanish about Jimenez: "Maybe I feel good about it. He can help
us."

If he's elected chief, Jimenez wants to follow the community policing model of
law enforcement, in which officers get out of their patrol cars and visit with
people.

"There are a lot of officers who could take more initiative to wave or get out
and say, 'What's going on?'" he said.

He even vowed to remove black window tint from patrol vehicles "so people can
see the policeman and see if he is waving."

He said there's "no doubt" that Hispanics have moved out of the city because
they are scared. And those who stay may be scared to report crimes.

"That's something to change," he said. "I am Hispanic. I would not want my
family to feel that way."

Despite the police department's tough image, though, the picture is not always
clear-cut.

One time, Jimenez pulled over a woman for not using a turn signal. She turned
out to be a Hispanic driver.

She was on the way to the grocery and didn't have a drivers license. She had two
little children with her, and Jimenez knew what could happen if immigration
officials got involved.

"I didn't have the heart to arrest her," he said. "If people don't want to elect
me because of that, then so be it."

---

TRAFFIC STOPS IN ST. ANN*

Hispanic drivers White drivers Year Traffic tickets % searched Traffic tickets %
searched 2006 371 66 2,003 16 2007 253 70 1,685 17 2008 132 60 1,401 19 2009 116
60 1,813 19 2010 58 52 5,241 7 2011 52 37 6,467 4

OTHER CITIES*

Hispanic traffic tickets, 2011 Percentage searched Edmundson 67 12 Berkeley 34 6
Cool Valley 12 17 Overland 134 32 Breckenridge Hills 112 5 Maryland Heights 321
17 Creve Coeur 69 10 St. Louis 622 8

*The numbers are self-reported by police departments and don't include warnings.

Source: Missouri Attorney General's Office, www.ago.mo.gov/VehicleStops

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MAP by Post-Dispatch - St. Ann, Missouri  Photo by David Carson o
dcarson@post-dispatch.com St. Ann Police Chief Robert Schrader at his desk in
his office at the St. Ann Police Department last week. Schrader was first
elected chief in 1989 and has held the office since. He says it's time to turn
the job over to someone "not as set in his ways."  Photo by David Carson o
dcarson@post-dispatch.com Marianne Meyer (left) watches as St. Ann Police Lt.
Aaron Jimenez reattaches the numbers on her home in St. Ann after he painted it
last month. Jimenez, 37, who was a house painter when he was younger, used a
comp day to paint Meyer's home.  Photo by David Carson o
dcarson@post-dispatch.com Elias Jurtado (right), owner of La Mexicana Tienda in
Breckenridge Hills, talks with a customer in his store last month. Jurtado says
he moved his business out of St. Ann because he feels the police were too
aggressive against Hispanics.  Photo by David Carson o dcarson@post-dispatch.com
St. Ann police Officer Holly Talley performs a traffic stop along St. Charles
Rock Road last month.  The driver, who was white, had a taillight bulb that was
burned out.  The driver provided a valid drivers license and proof of insurance
and was let go with a warning and told to replace the bulb.  The number of
traffic stops in St. Ann involving Hispanics has dropped in recent years, but
some in the Hispanic community feel they are being unjustly targeted.  Photo by
David Carson o dcarson@post-dispatch.com Martin McDrano and Alberta Mejia dance
at the Acapulco Restaurant and Lounge last month in St. Ann. Ernestina Zegar,
owner of the Acapulco, says fewer people are frequenting her business because
they fear being stopped by the St. Ann police. About 6 percent of the city's
residents are Hispanic.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Homegrown with international flair New farmers market on Cherokee Street
emphasizes getting healthy foods to immigrants.

BYLINE: Story and Photo by JOE BONWICH o jbonwich@post-dispatch.com >
314-340-8133

SECTION: LET'S EAT; Pg. L1

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: 0


Mark Bohnert halves the cantaloupe and starts to carve off slices, marveling at
their length.

"I think this is the biggest cantaloupe I've ever seen," he says, pausing and
shifting his attention from the sharp knife to the foot traffic on Cherokee
Street. Like any good farmers market vendor, he starts hawking samples, with
several people happily assenting and using the sweet, juicy slices as relief
from yet another 100-degree day.

Bohnert's market, however, isn't just any farmers market. The Cherokee Street
International Farmers Market, at the corner of Cherokee and Texas Avenue in the
Gravois Park neighborhood, is as much about local outreach as it is about the
classic farmers market mission of shortening the distance from field to table.

"I come from the nonprofit world, so I see this market as having a real health
mission to it," Bohnert says.

"Getting healthy foods to low-income neighborhoods is really important. If
people are around more fresh fruits and vegetables, they can make more healthy
choices."

Other area farmers markets - the North City Farmers Market in Old North St.
Louis, for example, and the City Greens Market in Forest Park Southeast - also
bring fresh fruits and vegetables to underserved communities. But the
"international" part of the Cherokee market's name reflects additional goals of
bringing familiar ingredients to ethnic communities and providing an outlet for
immigrant small-plot growers to sell their produce.

The market started small when it opened July 13, and indeed there were only
three booths on the day we visited.

"Two of our vendors couldn't make it today," in large part because of the heat
and drought, Bohnert says. Another is out of town this week.

But the booth Bohnert himself is running represents a couple of sources,
including one that fulfills the market's goal of immigrant participation. The
melons and other items are from a farmer in central Missouri, and freshly picked
okra comes from the Global Farms Initiative, a plot of land in the Botanical
Heights neighborhood that the International Institute of St. Louis uses to train
refugees for agricultural careers.

The next booth over, city residents Elizabeth Daly and Jackie Aubuchon are
longtime friends who got together this year to turn their shared passion for
gardening into a business they call City Roots and Fruits. Cherry tomatoes,
okra, peppers, squash and leafy greens are colorfully displayed on most of their
counter, with homemade soaps on the side.

And vegetables grown just a few blocks away are featured by Rebecca Widzer and
Eric Davis, who have a garden in the neighborhood and another small plot in
Sunset Hills. They're selling mainly heirloom vegetables, including somewhat
exotic choices like lemon cucumbers.

Prices at the market vary, with bell peppers selling for 50 cents, for example,
and heirloom tomatoes going for $4 a pound. Prices on the higher end are similar
to Clayton, Tower Grove and other established markets, but Bohnert has plans for
simultaneously appealing to all economic levels.

"We should be able to take SNAP shortly, and we hope to have programs in place
to let SNAP participants double their buying power," Bohnert says. SNAP is the
federal government's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, more commonly
known by its outdated name, food stamps. Bohnert is searching for private
funding to back a program similar to one used at other farmers markets that
allows SNAP participants to receive $10 in "health coupons" for the first $10
they spend at the market.

Traffic during our visit, both local and driving in from elsewhere, is generally
slow. Bohnert slices more cantaloupe and passes out more samples, building
word-of-mouth promotion of the St. Louis area's newest, and perhaps most
out-of-the-ordinary, farmers market.

---

CHEROKEE STREET INTERNATIONAL FARMERS MARKET

Where - Cherokee Street and Texas Avenue, a few blocks west of Jefferson Avenue
When - 4-7 p.m. Fridays More information - cherokeemarket.org, 314-265-5140

---

Recipes, L4 o Raw Melon Soup o Slow-Baked Cherry Tomatoes With Herbs o Sauteed
Okra

---

RAW MELON SOUP Yield: 4 servings

1 small seedless watermelon

1 small cantaloupe

2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice

Fresh mint, for garnish

1. Wash and dry the melons and cut each in half. Using a melon baller, scoop out
10 large watermelon balls and 10 large cantaloupe balls. Place in a small bowl.

2. Scrape out any remaining watermelon and cantaloupe, reserving all 4 empty
halves of the melons, and blend in a food processor for 1 minute. Add the lemon
juice and blend again for 4 minutes on high.

3. Pour the liquified melon mixture into the reserved watermelon and cantaloupe
"bowls." Add 5 melon balls to each bowl and garnish with mint.

Per serving: 23 calories; no fat; no saturated fat; no cholesterol; 0.5g
protein; 6g carbohydrate; 5g sugar; 0.5g fiber; 6mg sodium; 6mg calcium.

Adapted from "Sweet Vegan," by Emily Mainquist (Kyle Books, 2011)

---

SLOW-BAKED CHERRY TOMATOES WITH HERBS Yield: 15 appetizer servings

45 cherry tomatoes, stemmed

1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil

1 clove garlic, minced

2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh marjoram, thyme or oregano, or 1 teaspoon dried

2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese, preferably Parmigiano-Reggiano

Salt

1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half crosswise and
squeeze the seeds out of each half. Brush a baking dish large enough to hold the
tomatoes in a single layer with a thin coating of the olive oil.

2. Arrange the tomatoes, flat side up, in the dish. If the tomatoes don't stay
upright in the dish, cut a tiny slice off the bottom of each so they stay flat.

3. Crush the minced garlic with the side of a chef's knife on a cutting board
until you obtain a smooth paste. In a small bowl, combine the garlic with the
remaining olive oil, the herbs and the cheese. Use a small spoon to drizzle the
mixture into each of the tomatoes.

4. Sprinkle the tomatoes with salt to taste and bake for about 2 hours, or
slightly less if tomatoes are extremely small. The tomatoes should be shriveled
and lightly browned around the edges. Serve as soon as they come out of the
oven.

Per serving: 46 calories; 4g fat; 0.5g saturated fat; no cholesterol; 1g
protein; 2g carbohydrate; 1g sugar; 0.5g fiber; 13mg sodium; 13mg calcium.

Adapted from "Vegetables (Revised)," by James Peterson (Ten Speed Press, 2012)

---

SAUTEED OKRA Yield: 4 side dish servings

1 pound okra

2 tablespoons bacon fat, peanut oil or olive oil

2 cloves garlic, minced

1 thin slice prosciutto, cut into 1/8-by-1-inch strips

2 jalapeños (optional)

Salt

Freshly ground black pepper

1. Cut off and discard both ends of the okra and slice into 1/4-inch-thick
rounds.

2. Heat the bacon fat (or oil) in a wide skillet or wok over medium heat and add
the okra. Cook over medium to high heat - just hot enough to keep the okra
sizzling but not enough to brown it right away or cause the oil to smoke.

3. Cook the okra for 15 minutes, stirring every 5 minutes so it cooks evenly.
Stir in the garlic and prosciutto, and jalapeños if using, and cook for 5
minutes more. Season to taste with salt and pepper and serve immediately.

Per serving: 95 calories; 7g fat; 2g saturated fat; 9mg cholesterol; 3g protein;
6g carbohydrate; 3g sugar; 3g fiber; 103mg sodium; 100mg calcium.

Adapted from "Vegetables (Revised)," by James Peterson (Ten Speed Press, 2012)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Joe Bonwich  o  jbonwich@post-dispatch.com Mark Bohnert,
market master of the Cherokee International Farmers Market, slices customer
samples from a large cantaloupe.  Photo by Joe Bonwich  o
jbonwich@post-dispatch.com Rebecca Widzer crosses off a sold-out product at her
booth at the Cherokee International Farmers Market. Widzer grows heirloom
vegetables on an urban plot a few blocks from the market.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 17, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Open door Our view o Young immigrants help U.S. embrace its best traditions.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: 0


Real people breathe life into public policy.

Such was the case Wednesday, as President Barack Obama's executive order of two
months ago creating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program began in
earnest.

The president's order made it possible for young undocumented immigrants brought
to the United States by their parents to defer deportation and obtain the
necessary paperwork to work and go to school. Critics called it executive branch
overreach.

Congress was guilty of underreach. It dilly-dallied on any lasting solution to
America's very real immigration problem, so the president took matters into his
own hands. His order made it clear to up to 1.7 million young people, many of
them Latinos, that the only country most of them have called home wasn't about
to kick them out simply because the U.S. immigration system was broken.

Criticizing the president's action is more difficult when those 1.7 million
people have names.

Names like Juan Carlos Hernandez.

Mr. Hernandez is an 18-year-old student at St. Louis University. He came to St.
Louis when his parents left Mexico. Like many young people like him, he didn't
quite recognize the reality of not being a U.S. citizen until it came time to
drive and he couldn't get a drivers license.

Mr. Hernandez told the Post-Dispatch's Marlon Walker that he wants to become a
pediatrician. Thanks to the president's action, he has that chance.

So here is the question for Republicans decrying the DACA program: Would you
deny Mr. Hernandez that opportunity?

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer would. While Mitt Romney, the Republican Party's
presidential nominee-in-waiting, has tried to avoid uttering anything specific
about Mr. Obama's executive order, Ms. Brewer wholeheartedly endorsed the
cold-hearted policies of the Republican right, telling people like Mr. Hernandez
that if he lived in Arizona, she would crush his dreams.

On the very day Latinos all over the country were celebrating the common sense
of a policy that is a nod to America's historic embrace of immigrants, Ms.
Brewer signed her own executive order denying any applicants for deferrals the
state documents, such as drivers licenses, that they need to be productive
members of society.

Ms. Brewer's partisan hackery is a perfect example of how the GOP has ceded the
immigration high ground once championed by Republican presidents Ronald Reagan
and George W. Bush. Both men saw the economic and cultural benefit of not only
embracing immigrants but also developing humane public policy that was both
morally just and economically sound.

It was that sane Republican Party that caused former U.S. sens. Christopher
"Kit" Bond and Jim Talent of Missouri to intercede on behalf of Marie Gonzalez,
a Jefferson City high school student who, through no fault of her own, found
herself facing deportation to a country she hadn't seen since she was barely old
enough to walk.

Ms. Gonzalez became the face of the DREAM Act championed by Sen. Dick Durbin,
D-Ill. His bill started out with bipartisan support but was derailed by
extremist opposition. Had Congress passed it, Mr. Obama's executive order would
have been unnecessary.

As of Wednesday, 1.7 million very real, very hopeful young people like Juan
Carlos Hernandez have begun filing the paperwork for an arduous but meaningful
path to citizenship.

They are this generation's huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Mound City Money

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: 0


Highlights from David Nicklaus' blog about St. Louis business.

STLtoday.com/nicklaus

Immigration is a pressing economic issue too

Immigration isn't just a national security issue, as some on the right would
tell us, and it's not just a human rights issue either.

It's an economic issue, and a pair of recent studies make clear just how
important immigrants' role is in creating new businesses in this country. The
Partnership for a New American Economy calculates that immigrant business owners
employ one in 10 U.S. private-sector workers, and notes that they started more
businesses in recent years, in contrast to a decline in startups by native-born
Americans. And a new Kauffman Foundation study focuses on student entrepreneurs,
arguing that we should let talented foreign scholars start businesses while
enrolled in U.S. universities.

The Partnership, headed by New York mayor Michael Bloomberg and News Corp. Chief
Executive Rupert Murdoch, claims to represent more than 450 mayors and business
leaders who want looser limits on immigration. Its report, written by economics
professor Robert Fairlie of the University of California, Santa Cruz, starts
with some fascinating numbers:

- Immigrants are twice as likely as native-born Americans to start a business.
(Last year, 550 new businesses were formed each month for every 100,000
immigrants. Among the native-born, the rate was 270 businesses per month per
100,000 people.)

- Between 1996 and 2011, immigrants' rate of business formation rose 50 percent.
Native-born Americans' entrepreneurial proclivity fell 10 percent.

- Immigrants start more than one-fourth of all new businesses in the economy's
fastest-growing sectors, including retailing, health care and business services.
Last year, immigrants launched 28 percent of all new U.S. firms.

Fairlie doesn't endorse any specific immigration-reform plan, but he says the
subject needs to be part of our debate on how to revitalize the economy.

The Kauffman report, written by a team of University of Missouri-Kansas City
professors, does have some specific legislation in mind. They'd like to see the
Startup Act, a bipartisan bill that would create a special visa preference for
immigrant entrepreneurs, amended to let foreign students start businesses while
they're in college. (A typical student visa doesn't allow self-employment.)

Many colleges, including UMKC, have started entrepreneurship programs, but even
if immigrants enroll, they can't follow through on their ideas, at least not in
the U.S. (08.16)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Mound City Money

BYLINE: |||

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: 0


Highlights from David Nicklaus' blog about St. Louis business.

STLtoday.com/nicklaus

Immigration is a pressing economic issue too

Immigration isn't just a national security issue, as some on the right would
tell us, and it's not just a human rights issue either.

It's an economic issue, and a pair of recent studies make clear just how
important immigrants' role is in creating new businesses in this country. The
Partnership for a New American Economy calculates that immigrant business owners
employ one in 10 U.S. private-sector workers, and notes that they started more
businesses in recent years, in contrast to a decline in startups by native-born
Americans. And a new Kauffman Foundation study focuses on student entrepreneurs,
arguing that we should let talented foreign scholars start businesses while
enrolled in U.S. universities.

The Partnership, headed by New York mayor Michael Bloomberg and News Corp. Chief
Executive Rupert Murdoch, claims to represent more than 450 mayors and business
leaders who want looser limits on immigration. Its report, written by economics
professor Robert Fairlie of the University of California, Santa Cruz, starts
with some fascinating numbers:

- Immigrants are twice as likely as native-born Americans to start a business.
(Last year, 550 new businesses were formed each month for every 100,000
immigrants. Among the native-born, the rate was 270 businesses per month per
100,000 people.)

- Between 1996 and 2011, immigrants' rate of business formation rose 50 percent.
Native-born Americans' entrepreneurial proclivity fell 10 percent.

- Immigrants start more than one-fourth of all new businesses in the economy's
fastest-growing sectors, including retailing, health care and business services.
Last year, immigrants launched 28 percent of all new U.S. firms.

Fairlie doesn't endorse any specific immigration-reform plan, but he says the
subject needs to be part of our debate on how to revitalize the economy.

The Kauffman report, written by a team of University of Missouri-Kansas City
professors, does have some specific legislation in mind. They'd like to see the
Startup Act, a bipartisan bill that would create a special visa preference for
immigrant entrepreneurs, amended to let foreign students start businesses while
they're in college. (A typical student visa doesn't allow self-employment.)

Many colleges, including UMKC, have started entrepreneurship programs, but even
if immigrants enroll, they can't follow through on their ideas, at least not in
the U.S. (08.16)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 31, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Canada is deporting U.S. woman who fled to avoid war in Iraq Conservative
government's policy denies asylum to soldiers who flee military service.

BYLINE: By CHARMAINE NORONHA o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: 0


TORONTO - Canada has ordered the deportation of a female soldier who fled the
U.S. military in order to avoid the war in Iraq, officials said Thursday.

War Resisters Support Campaign spokeswoman Michelle Robidoux said that
Citizenship and Immigration Canada has ordered Kimberly Rivera to leave the
country by Sept. 20.

Rivera is meeting with her attorneys to determine her next step and was
unavailable to comment, said Robidoux.

"We are very upset about this decision," said Robidoux. "The cases of war
resisters are not being looked at properly. (Immigration Minister Jason) Kenney
continues to intervene by telling immigration officers to red flag U.S. soldiers
who are applying for asylum as criminally inadmissible. We think that has
tainted the whole process and the government should withdraw that directive."

Robidoux said her organization would probably call on Kenney to grant the
woman's family humanitarian and compassionate consideration and allow them to
stay.

"Canada's immigration system is considered among the most fair and generous in
the world. It is a matter of public record that Ms. Rivera has had multiple
opportunities to make her case to stay in Canada," said Kenney's spokeswoman,
Alexis Pavlich.

Rivera, 30, an Army private, served in Iraq in 2006. She said she became
disillusioned with the mission. She crossed the border into Canada while on
leave in February 2007, after she was ordered to serve another tour there.

After arriving in Canada on leave, she applied for refugee status.

She currently lives in Toronto with her husband and four children. Her two
youngest children were born in Canada.

In January 2009, Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board ordered her and her
family to leave the country or face deportation. Rivera appealed the ruling.

Rivera's attorney, Alyssa Manning, has argued in Canada's federal court that her
client would be likely to face a court martial and jail time of up to five
years, if she is deported.

The War Resisters Support Campaign, which notes that there are about 200 Iraq
war resisters in Canada, said two other Iraq war resisters who were deported,
Robin Long and Clifford Cornell, faced year-long jail sentences upon their
return.

Long was given a dishonorable discharge in 2008 and sentenced to 15 months in a
military prison after pleading guilty to charges of desertion.

The lower house of Canada's Parliament passed a nonbinding motion in 2009 urging
that U.S. military deserters be allowed to stay in Canada, but the Conservative
government ignored the vote.

During the Vietnam War, up to 90,000 Americans won refuge in Canada, most of
them to avoid the military draft. Many were given permanent residence status
that led to Canadian citizenship, but the majority went home after
then-President Jimmy Carter granted amnesty in the late 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Michelle Siu o Associated Press Kimberly Rivera, a soldier
who fled the U.S. military in order to avoid the war in Iraq, plays with her
children in their home in Toronto on Thursday. Canada has ordered her to leave
the country by Sept. 20.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 15, 2012 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Opening doors Our view o Building jobs for immigrants builds St. Louis. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: 0


The Hispanic population in St. Louis and St. Louis County remains small -
slightly more than 11,000 in the city and right around 25,000 in the county -
but it is growing quickly.

In the decade that ended in 2010, the Hispanic population increased by 72
percent in the county and 59 percent in the city. The county number is close to
the 79 percent statewide growth over the decade in the Hispanic population, from
118,592 people to 212,470.

Still, Kansas City has seen far more Hispanic immigration than St. Louis. The
U.S. Census Bureau says the Kansas City area - which includes Kansas suburbs -
is home to 161,062 Hispanics.

This is a big part of our economic future. Young Hispanics - indeed, young
immigrants from many countries - who are being prepared to enter the work force
with skills that will enable them to take on advanced jobs in such industries as
manufacturing, transportation and health care.

If we don't embrace that future, the region's economy is likely to remain
stagnant. A study released in June by St. Louis University economist Jack
Strauss concluded that immigration is good for a city's business climate. But
the St. Louis region has 80 percent fewer foreign-born residents than other
large metro areas, a big reason that the area's economy is lagging.

When U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis visited St. Louis on Wednesday to announce
a nearly $15 million grant to 10 community colleges in Missouri, she talked a
lot about the money being used for job-preparedness for immigrants - Hispanics
in particular.

"Welding," Ms. Solis said. "How long has it been since we've talked about
welding at the dinner table? ... We are going to continue helping to build the
skills that are needed by manufacturers."

The grant money is coming from the Labor Department's community college and
career training initiative, and is part of a nationwide program announced in
September. Overall the department is giving 54 grants to nearly 300 schools to
beef up job training.

Rather than fear immigrants, the country should welcome them, as was suggested
by former President Bill Clinton in 1998: "The United States has always been
energized by its immigrant populations. America has constantly drawn strength
and spirit from wave after wave of immigrants ... They have proved to be the
most restless, the most adventurous, the most innovative, the most industrious
of people."

Mr. Strauss said in his study that St. Louis would have seen a 4 percent to 7
percent rise in income growth; a 7 percent to 11 percent rise in total income;
and a 4 percent to 5 percent rise in job growth if the region had attracted
immigrants in the past decade as fast as other large metropolitan areas.

Mr. Strauss's study reported that other metro areas had developed economic and
social policies that helped attract immigrant workers.

The Labor Department grant to community colleges will help open some doors to
young immigrant workers. Local business and government leaders should follow
that up by putting some energy into efforts to help immigrants make homes here.
They should encourage St. Louis colleges and universities to offer internship
programs so immigrant students can find local jobs and offer low or
interest-free loans to those trying to start businesses.

Some money to the underfunded International Institute, which works exclusively
with refugees and low-income immigrants, also would help. Making immigrants
welcome in St. Louis will enrich us all.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

St. Louis needs immigrants Despite the poisonous political climate, area leaders
should band together for sake of regional economy. BUSINESS

BYLINE: David Nicklaus o dnicklaus@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8213

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: 0


Immigration should be a huge issue in St. Louis, but not in the way it is in
Arizona or Alabama.

Those states have passed laws aimed at keeping people out. St. Louis - along
with much of the old industrial Midwest - needs to find a way to bring people
in.

Jack Strauss, a professor of economics at St. Louis University, says more
foreign-born residents could supercharge the area's economy.

"The St. Louis region's lack of immigrants explains a considerable amount of the
reason why St. Louis has slow job and income growth," he says.

Rather than taking jobs away from native-born Americans, immigrants' skills and
purchasing power bring more jobs here.

At a conference last week on the economics of immigration, Strauss began with a
history lesson. In 1980, St. Louis was the 10th-largest metro area in the
country, and we ranked 26th in the number of foreign-born residents. Now we're
19th in population and 43rd in immigrants.

Somehow, a city with a proud history of welcoming immigrants, from Germans in
the 19th century to Bosnians in the l990s, has become less international than
places such as Louisville, Ky.

You could argue that immigrants have simply gone where they could find jobs, but
Strauss' research shows that the causality goes in the other direction. Compared
with native-born Americans, immigrants are far more likely to start job-creating
firms.

Strauss says that if St. Louis had just experienced an average amount of
immigration over the past three decades, unemployment would be 2 percentage
points lower and incomes would be 7 to 11 percent higher.

"Immigrants aren't stealing jobs; they are complements," Strauss said. "They
have different skill sets. They add to the economy through specialization."

Congress, though, doesn't seem to understand economics. Paralyzed by the debate
over illegal immigration, national-level politicians have failed to act on
sensible proposals like making more visas available for people with science and
math degrees.

In such a poisonous political climate, how can St. Louis be more welcoming? Bob
Fox, a local businessman and founder of the Casa de Salud health care center,
thinks we can do a lot. His list includes more English classes, better
transportation and health care services, and a change in attitude.

The Missouri Legislature sends a bad signal, for instance, when it considers
bills that would require drivers license tests to be taken only in English.

"We cannot reach our goals in a state that is viewed as negative toward
immigration," Fox said at the conference. "Even neutrality is not good enough."

Fortunately, many of our leaders get the message. A joint city-county steering
committee is studying ways to make St. Louis more attractive to immigrants. Tim
Nowak, director of the World Trade Center in Clayton and an adviser to the
committee, says the group is examining everything from culture to infrastructure
to social services.

It's also considering a communications effort. "We need to put the message out
there that immigration is good, and that it is an important economic issue,"
Nowak said.

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has started a similar task force, vowing to make his
city the most immigrant-friendly in America. The Chicago and St. Louis groups
are talking to each other, which is a good sign.

Maybe if enough big cities band together, they can persuade Congress that
immigration doesn't have to be a divisive, us-versus-them issue. Here in the
heartland, it's just sound economics.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Young immigrant, newly fearless, ponders her future Angy Rivera has led movement
of those brought here illegally as children. Obama's order allows them to stay.

BYLINE: By HELEN O'NEILL AP Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 387 words


NEW YORK o Angy Rivera glided through the airport as though she owned it, giddy
with excitement at her brave new world. Then she saw the security guards and
froze.

After a lifetime of avoiding any public place where she might be asked for
identification, had she just made the biggest mistake of her life? Would she be
stopped, arrested, detained - and deported? Nervously, she handed over her
boarding pass.

The security guard barely glanced at her Colombian passport, questioned her
about a tube of hair mousse - and waved her through. Elated, she boarded the
plane.

"I am flying for the first time," Rivera, 22, a criminal justice student from
Queens, wrote in a jubilant essay.

"I left something up in between the air and clouds," she wrote. "Not my luggage.
Fear."

The fear that had part of her life for 19 years, since her mother brought her
here from Colombia was swept away by President Barack Obama's announcement in
August that some young illegal immigrants would be allowed temporary status and
work permits.

Now she could savor the simple pleasure of walking home at night without the
nagging fear that any incident might trigger her deportation.

This is the way it is for hundreds of thousands of young men and women who
suddenly can be sheltered from deportation under Obama's policy. So far, about
180,000 have applied for the program, and nearly 4,600 have been approved,
according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Rivera has become one of the most visible leaders in a nationwide movement of
young people brought here illegally as children and fighting for the right to
stay.

She is a member of the New York State Youth Leadership Council, which fights for
immigrant rights.

Her pointed videos about the perils of navigating a life that is "undocumented
and unafraid" are posted on the Internet. Her "Ask Angy" advice column has
counseled hundreds of young illegal immigrants.

But if she is no longer "undocumented and unafraid," as her T-shirt proclaims,
then what will she become?

Can she remain a leader in an organization where a core belief is that all
decisions, big and small, are made by young people living here illegally on
behalf of those living here illegally?

Those with any kind of temporary visa or permanent status are asked to leave.

"I won't want to leave the room," Rivera says, forlornly.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Associated Press Angy Rivera, 22, at home in Queens, N.Y. She
was born in Colombia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

OBAMA'S SECOND-TERM PROMISES They involve taxes, Medicare, pollution, Medicare
and more ELECTIONS 2012

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 310 words


o Roll back Bush tax cuts for upper-income people, couples making over $250,000
and individuals making over $200,000, a failed 2008 promise. Ensure people
making over $1 million pay at least 30 percent in taxes.

o Put government on a path to cutting deficits by $4 trillion over 10 years.
First-term promise to cut deficits by half failed.

o Cut imports of foreign oil by half by 2020.

o End subsidies to the oil industry. A leftover promise.

o "As long as I'm president of the United States, Iran will not get a nuclear
weapon." Using sanctions and negotiation, with force if needed.

o End tax breaks for companies shipping jobs overseas.

o Achieve an immigration overhaul that sets a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants under certain conditions. An unfulfilled 2008 promise. Implemented a
temporary measure in June letting up to 1.7 million young illegal immigrants
stay and work for up to two years.

o Make higher education affordable for everyone, in part by halving the growth
in college tuition over 10 years.

o Continue to reduce the carbon pollution that is heating our planet." Latest
iteration of a broken 2008 promise to enact a climate-change law.

o "When Obamacare is fully implemented, we're going to be in a position to show
that costs are going down." Latest and much less ambitious iteration of failed
2008 pledge to cut average family premiums by $2,500 in first four years.

o Strengthen Medicare by reducing the cost of health care. Steps already taken
under the health care law improve benefits while cutting payments to hospitals
and other providers by more than $700 billion over a decade - cuts used to help
working-age Americans get insurance.

o Double exports and create 1 million new manufacturing jobs in four years.

o Consolidate various federal agencies dealing with business issues into one new
department led by a secretary of business.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

An American tradition

BYLINE: the Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 949 words


If there's a Butterball or some other mass-market turkey on your groaning board
today, take a moment to think about Encarnación Bail Romero.

The Guatemalan immigrant, who lives in southwest Missouri, until a few weeks ago
worked at one of the turkey plants that helped this nation's poultry industry
produce about 248 million turkeys in 2011. Of those, 17.5 million came from
plants in Missouri, making it the fourth biggest turkey-producing state in the
nation.

Some of those turkeys made it to the market because Ms. Bail, and other workers
like her, put in long hours of grim, stomach-churning work for little pay, all
the while facing the threat of deportation.

Ms. Bail is an undocumented immigrant. Her American-born son, Carlos, is a
6-year-old U.S. citizen.

She hasn't seen Carlos since the day in May 2007 when the Barry County chicken
plant that employed Ms. Bail was raided by agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Mother and son have never spent a Thanksgiving together.

These days, Ms. Bail is allowed legally to stay in the U.S. as her appeal to
regain custody of her son continues winding through the Missouri courts. It's
been a long battle with little hope.

Carlos lives with another southwest Missouri family that adopted him while Ms.
Bail was awaiting deportation to her home country. The Missouri Supreme Court
was faced with the ultimate in judicial challenges when the case came before the
court in 2010.

There is no doubt Ms. Bail's rights were denied when she was stuck in jail and a
perhaps well-meaning conspiracy sought to provide Carlos a family by ending his
mother's parental rights. She didn't speak English. She didn't know what was
happening to her.

But by the time justice was sought, the judges were faced with taking the boy
away from the family that had raised him for most of his life or returning him
to a mother who spoke a different language and would take her son home to
Guatemala.

The court kicked the case back to the trial court, which this summer kept Carlos
with his adoptive parents.

Last week, lawyers for Ms. Bail asked the Missouri Supreme Court to take the
case again.

Today, all over this country, we offer thanks for the food on our tables and the
families in our midst. We should pause, too, to consider the anguish wrought on
other families by a broken immigration system. Ms. Bail is hardly alone.

Thanksgiving is the ultimate immigration story.

Most of what we know - or at least what we think we know - of the so-called
first Thanksgiving we learned from a letter Edward Winslow wrote in December
1621 about a gathering between Pilgrims and about 90 members of the Wampanoag
native tribe. The Pilgrims had endured some tough times, and the fall harvest
that year was plentiful, so they celebrated.

The Pilgrims, of course, were immigrants to a land where they were vastly
outnumbered by people who had been here for centuries. In the mythological
version of Thanksgiving we've devised today, built around turkey and pumpkin
pie, those details get glossed over.

"The Wampanoag, we sometimes forget, were the majority population," Nancy
Brennan, former director of the Plimoth Plantation museum, told The Christian
Science Monitor in 2002. "In the 19th and 20th centuries, Thanksgiving was
really a tool for Americanization amid the great influx of immigration. It was
supposed to bind this diverse population into one union."

The nation's most recent presidential election, which was quite divided along
racial lines, suggests our union could use some more binding.

Whether or not {span}Encarnación Bail {/span}Romero ever sees her son again, she
and Carlos are an example of everything that has gone wrong with U.S.
immigration policy. The poultry industry is a more than $16 billion a year
business, so when the huge corporations that dominate the field need workers,
the government usually is willing to look the other way while those companies
ignore the law to keep wages low.

The 2007 raid on the Barry County plant took place in the walk-up to the 2008
presidential election. Then members of both parties were busy trying to
demonstrate their tough anti-immigrant bona fides by screaming "build the border
fence." Raids like the one that ensnared Ms. Bail were common.

Families were torn apart as parents were deported and their American-born
children stayed behind. Companies, for the most part, got a pass.

This Thanksgiving, the trend is the opposite direction. On June 15, in one of
the most important acts in his first term, President Barack Obama signed an
executive order allowing children of undocumented workers, who were brought to
the country through no fault of their own, to delay their deportation.

It mirrored the DREAM Act, which Congress refused to pass. It allowed those
young people, most of whom have been educated in American schools, to continue
to contribute to the only country they've ever called home.

Since the president signed that act, more than 53,000 young immigrants have been
able to put off deportation. Hundreds of thousands of others are in the
pipeline, beginning the process to eventual citizenship.

Republicans, reeling from Mr. Obama's re-election, and his overwhelming
popularity with Hispanic voters, are questioning their previous, harsh stances
on issues of immigration. Their conversion should be a quick one.

Which policy is more likely to rekindle thoughts of that first Thanksgiving: The
one that divides families, and the nation, or the one that keeps parents and
children at the same dinner table?

America needs a bigger table. It needs to rekindle that simple spirit expressed
in the Latin phrase that appears on the official Seal of the United States: E
pluribus unum.

Out of many, one.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Nov. 19, 2010 - - Encarnacion Romero. The Missouri Supreme court heard
arguments Tuesday on a custody battle between Romero, a Guatamalan mom arrested
at a poultry plant in May 2007 near Springfiled on illegal immigration charges,
and a Missouri couple allowed to privately adopt her now 4-year-old child
through a church. PHOTO COURTESY OF MISSOURI NEWS HORIZON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

House Republicans exploring limited immigration measure Bill would expand some
visas, make it easier for families to reunite.

BYLINE: BY JIM ABRAMS Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 473 words


WASHINGTON o House Republicans still smarting from their poor showing among
Hispanics in the presidential election are planning a vote next week on
immigration legislation that would expand visas for foreign science and
technology students and make it easier for those with green cards to bring their
immediate families to the U.S.

Republican leaders made it clear after the election that the party was ready to
get serious about overhauling the nation's dysfunctional immigration system, a
top priority for Hispanic communities. Taking up what is called the STEM Jobs
Act during the lame-duck session could be seen as a first step in that
direction.

The House voted on a STEM bill - standing for science, technology, engineering
and mathematics - in September, but under a procedure requiring a two-thirds
majority. It was defeated, with more than 80 percent of Democrats voting against
it, because it offset the increase in visas for high-tech graduates by
eliminating another visa program that is available for less-educated foreigners,
many from Africa.

Republicans are changing the formula this time by adding a provision long sought
by some immigration advocates - expanding a program that allows the spouses and
minor children of people with permanent residence, or green card, to wait in the
United States for their own green cards to be granted.

There are about 80,000 of these family-based green cards allocated every year,
but there are about 322,000 husbands, wives and children waiting in this
category and on average people must wait more than two years to be reunited with
their families. In that past that wait could be as long as six years.

The House proposal would allow family members to come to the U.S. one year after
they apply for their green cards, but they wouldn't be able to work until they
actually got the card. It applies to the families of green card holders who
marry after getting their residency permits.

Bruce Morrison, a former Democratic congressman from Connecticut who chaired the
House immigration subcommittee and authored a 1990 immigration law, said the
bill neither increases the number of green cards nor gives people green cards
early. But people "get the most important benefit of being able to live legally
in the United States with their spouses."

Morrison, an immigration policy lobbyist who advocates for groups such as
American Families United, called the bill a stepping-stone to more comprehensive
immigration reform, That Republicans initiated it "to me is a positive gesture
that they want to do business on this subject," he said

Megan Whittemore, spokeswoman for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., a
key proponent of the STEM Act, said the bill is "family friendly, helping
spouses and minor children who would otherwise be separated from their families
for extended periods of time."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

GOP stepping in own way on immigration Hispanics say early efforts to provide
legal status to immigrants aren't likely to win new support.

BYLINE: BY ALICIA A. CALDWELL Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 690 words


WASHINGTON o After Mitt Romney's loss in the presidential election, Republicans
quickly identified one of their mistakes as the party's dysfunctional
relationship with Hispanic voters, who overwhelmingly voted for President Barack
Obama. But the earliest efforts by GOP lawmakers to tackle immigration policy on
Capitol Hill aren't likely to win them new support among Hispanics.

The first immigration-related bills offered by Republicans this week would
provide legal status for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants - but no way
for them to become U.S. citizens - and would eliminate the popular diversity
lottery that randomly awards green cards to would-be immigrants from countries
with low rates of immigration to the United States. The two bills have virtually
no chance in the lame-duck session, but they are significant because they are
the first on the legislative agenda since the election.

Early reviews aren't enthusiastic.

"We don't see the writing on the wall," said Lionel Sosa, a Republican from
Texas who served as a Hispanic media consultant for presidents Ronald Reagan,
George Bush and George W. Bush. "We don't see that the electorate is changing
and we need to make changes. The longer we send out messages that Latinos take
some offense to, the longer it's going got take us to recover the Latino vote."

Republicans are offering some olive branches to Hispanic voters. Retiring
Republican Sens. Jon Kyl of Arizona and Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas introduced
on Tuesday a narrowly tailored DREAM Act-like bill dubbed the Achieve Act. It
offers visas for some young illegal immigrants who arrived before they turned 14
and are 28 or younger and are in the military or pursuing a college or technical
degree, but it wouldn't allow them any way to become citizens.

The DREAM Act, which narrowly passed the House before being defeated in the
Senate two years ago, would offer citizenship for young illegal immigrants. Such
proposals have been derided as "amnesty" by GOP lawmakers - and by Romney, who
promised he would veto the legislation.

This past week, House Republicans also considered a bill that annually would
give 55,000 new green cards, or permanent visas, to foreign students in science,
technology, engineering and math. The so-called STEM bill would also make it
easier for those green card holders to be reunited with spouses or children
living abroad. But it would eliminate the popular diversity lottery, and
Democrats have argued that it actually would reduce overall legal immigration.

Kyl, one of the bill's sponsors, said the timing of the legislation isn't a
political response to the election.

"We have to get the ball rolling," he said.

Romney's chief political strategist this week said the campaign's biggest
mistake was how it dealt with Hispanic voters. "We should have done a better job
reaching out to Hispanic voters," Stuart Stevens said in an interview with CBS'
Charlie Rose on Thursday.

"We should have done it earlier and in a more effective way."

One day earlier, in an op-ed published in the Washington Post, Stevens noted
that Romney did better than Obama among what he described as middle-class
voters, especially white voters younger than 30, and described Obama's strategy
as "being too liberal and too dependent on minorities." Democratic lawmakers
said their political opponents are missing a chance for bipartisan support on
the STEM bill by adding conditions such as ending the diversity lottery.

"That's not the way we are going to achieve success," said Sen. Bob Menendez,
D-N.J. "There was a deal on the table, it could have been a good step forward."

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., said: "It's almost as though they didn't hear the
call from voters on Election Day on Nov. 6."

Sosa, who has made a living appealing to Hispanic and Latino voters for
Republican candidates, said the Republican efforts should at least be considered
a step in the right direction. But he warned that the party has to move to the
center on immigration.

"We need to quit making offensive gestures to the Latino community," Sosa said.
"Wanting to oppose the DREAM Act, in my opinion is totally ridiculous."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by WILFREDO LEE o Associated Press Voters line up to beat the 7
p.m. deadline on Nov. 6 to cast their ballots in Miami. House Republicans, still
smarting from their poor showing among Hispanics in the election, have proposed
legislation that would expand visas for foreign science and technology students
and make it easier for those with green cards to bring their immediate families
to the U.S. The legislation has been criticized for not providing a path to
citizenship.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Gypsies take a curious route to asylum Fleeing oppression in their homelands,
they wind their way through the U.S. to Canada.

BYLINE: By ROB GILLIES and WILSON RING Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1033 words


DERBY LINE, Vt. o A Dodge Caravan with California license plates and a dozen
passengers zipped across the border between Vermont and Quebec in October,
heading north in a southbound lane unblocked by traffic.

Border agents could only watch as the van disappeared into Quebec. But the
vehicle and its occupants didn't try to disappear.

About 22 miles later, they stopped in a Walmart parking lot in Magog, Quebec,
and asked someone to call the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. When the Mounties
arrived, the Gypsy occupants of the vehicle applied for political asylum.

"It's as though they had it programmed into their GPS," said Magog police
spokesman Paul Tear.

That may not be far from the truth. Canadian authorities announced Wednesday
that they had broken up a circuitous but ingenious human smuggling ring that
shuttled Romanians from Europe to Mexico and across the U.S. to the famously
porous border between the twin communities of Derby Line, Vt., and Stanstead,
Quebec.

Interviews and statistics gathered by The Associated Press in the weeks before
the announcement revealed that the Romanians are largely ethnic Roma people, or
Gypsies. Canadian officials say many of the immigrants move to Toronto and
Montreal, which have large Roma communities.

"Quite frankly, we really haven't seen anything like this in our immigration
system before," Canadian Immigration Minister Jason Kenney said at a news
conference Wednesday in Stanstead.

The Roma are descendants of nomads who moved out of what is now India 800 years
ago. They speak a distinct language, a variation of Hindi. They have faced
centuries of oppression in Europe that many advocates - and some countries, like
Canada - say continues today. They have been forcibly resettled through the ages
and were imprisoned and executed in concentration camps during World War II.

A 2004 agreement between the U.S. and Canada in how the two countries deal with
asylum seekers is driving the latest migration, experts told the AP.

If the Romanians were to present themselves at a Canadian border post, they
would be refused entry and told to seek asylum in the United States, which has
more difficult requirements and where asylum seekers are not eligible for
welfare benefits.

Romanians seeking to enter the U.S. or Canada need pre-approved visas. They do
not need visas to enter Mexico.

Once in Canada, the asylum seekers are freed in most cases from detention while
their asylum claims are pending, a process that can take years. At the same
time, they are eligible to receive public assistance benefits.

The appeal of the border crossing between Derby Line and Stanstead, as opposed
to other points along the thousands-mile-long border with Canada, is apparent.

The two towns are separate only in name and country - otherwise, they are
essentially one community. The border runs through yards and buildings. Until
recently, people could freely walk across quiet residential streets to visit
neighbors in another country.

Since Sept. 11, many of those streets have been blocked off and people required
to pass through the border posts before visiting the other country. It's not
entirely clear how Derby Line and Stanstead became the focus for Gypsies, but
until repeated crossings like the one in October led the Canadians to beef up
security on their side, agents didn't have the resources available to their
American counterparts.

In 2010, 85 people crossed the border illegally at Stanstead, according to
statistics from the Canada Border Services Agency. In 2011, that number rose to
168, and so far this year, it is 260.

Gina Csanyi-Robah, the executive director of the Roma Community Center in
Toronto, said before Wednesday's announcement that she was aware of the border
crossings between Vermont and Quebec only because of media inquiries. She
doubted it was an organized smuggling system.

"This community works by word of mouth. So if you have one family going and
finding it safe to claim asylum, you can guarantee there will be 10 families
behind them, the relatives, the friends. And those 10 families are going to tell
another 10 families each," she said.

For the Roma in Canada, life is less oppressive than elsewhere, but she said she
believes the Canadian government is changing its immigration policies with the
specific intent of excluding Roma. Aside from the government policies, Roma have
been well received in Canada, she said.

Canadian officials said many arrived indebted to a criminal organization and in
some cases engaged in crime to pay back the smuggling debts. Twelve have been
charged since arriving in Canada.

Thirty of the irregular arrivals have been arrested under newly enacted
immigration laws that allow for the mandatory detention of those suspected to
have arrived in Canada via smugglers, Kenney said.

Kenney declined to identify their ethnicity but said the groups of Romanian
nationals illegally crossed into Canada between February and October.

Kenney noted that Canada has one of the most generous immigration systems in the
world but said it won't tolerate those who abuse it to jump the queue.

"We are sending a strong message to those who are thinking of using the services
of criminal human smugglers to sneak their way into Canada: Don't do it," Kenney
said.

Roma communities are known for their insularity, and authorities did not make
any asylum seekers available for comment.

The funnel points along the Mexican border have shifted. In 2010, most Romanians
were apprehended in the Tucson, Ariz., sector; in 2011, it was split between
Tucson and the Rio Grande Valley of Texas. In 2012, the Imperial Valley of
Southern California became the favorite crossing site, with 509 Romanian
apprehensions there this year.

Statistics from U.S. Customs and Border Protection show that 384 Romanians were
apprehended along the Mexican border in fiscal year 2010, 575 in 2011 and 901 in
2012. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have noticed the spike.

The agents apprehending them know they are dealing with Gypsies, said Lauren
Mack, ICE San Diego spokesman.

"We have noticed and are aware of an increase in the number of Roma who are
being smuggled into the United States and are concerned about it," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ASSOCIATED PRESS  Miguel Begin, the chief of operations for the Canada
Border Services Agency's Stanstead sector, stands at the Canadian port of entry
in Stanstead, Quebec. Canadian immigration officials say a Romanian smuggling
ring has been bringing Gypsies into the U. S. through Mexico in order for them
to eventually gain asylum in Canada. Over the past year, cars loaded with ethnic
Roma asylum seekers have run the border between Derby Line, Vt., and Stanstead.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hispanic, Latino voters are concerned with more than immigration

BYLINE:  By Rita Flórez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 556 words


This week, there's been a lot of talk about why the Republicans lost the
Hispanic vote in this presidential election. Often, it's attributed to the
conservative party's get-tough stance on immigration policies.

Major outlets referred to Mitt Romney's loss as the Republican Party's Hispanic
or Latino problem. Framing the loss as a problem based on ethnic origin only
helps to marginalize. That's because words matter. The association of Hispanic
or Latino with the word "problem" bolsters the idea that we're a group of
outsiders intent on changing America in ways that conservative media often
describe negatively.

The problem with blaming the overwhelming loss of our vote on the single issue
of immigration is that it paints the Hispanic community as a one-dimensional
group that only cares about one thing: whether our abuelos get deported. The
characterization is also rooted in stereotypes about what the larger community
values.

The idea that eligible voting Latinos, all 24 million of us, don't care about a
lagging economy, health care, the federal deficit or foreign policy is just
untrue. Sixty percent of Hispanic voters pointed to the economy as the most
pressing issue we Americans face today, almost matching the 59 percent of the
general electorate's belief that the economy is the most important issue right
now, according to the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan think tank.

My views on American priorities are in line with most of the country's -
regardless of whether you put me in the Latino or general electorate. I'm a
third-year law student at the University of Missouri School of Law. Before law
school, I was a reporter facing extreme job insecurity. Then I got laid off and
spent a year looking for work. I worry about my ability to find a job when I
finish school. I worry about my future children's ability to find meaningful
work, and neither they, nor I, will ever have to worry about being deported.

Reducing the Republican loss to immigration is an incomplete perception of
Hispanic views on that single issue. It fails to take into account that there
are generations of American-born Hispanics in key battleground states like
Florida, California, Texas and Colorado - states that have been hit especially
hard in the Great Recession. It paints us as "other" rather than U.S. citizens
who proudly voted in this election. Ultimately, it shows a lack of recognition
that Hispanics contribute to the communities in which they live.

The president didn't win the election because half the country wants to be put
up by the government. I view this election as the American public saying they
want more tolerance and less rhetoric whose only purpose is to divide.

This election was significant in so many ways: We re-elected the first
African-American president; we have more women elected to the U.S. Senate than
ever; a viable Mormon candidate ran on a presidential ticket and received almost
half of the country's support in the popular vote. And through our votes, we
said we wanted marriage equality in a number of states and would not tolerate
misguided beliefs about rape and women.

This year, American tolerance was the theme of the election, not whether
Hispanics voted blue because of the other party's views on immigration.

> Rita Flórez is based in Columbia, Mo., at the University of Missouri School of
Law.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 3, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

VOTES IN CONGRESS - Week of Nov. 26

BYLINE:  Source: Wire reports and Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 467 words


Votes in Congress Week of Nov. 26

KEY HOUSE VOTES

GOP immigration bill - Voting 245-139, members established 55,000 STEM visas
each year for foreigners earning graduate degrees in the fields of science,
technology, engineering and mathematics. The GOP bill also would end the
Diversity Immigrant Visa program, which is a 55,000-visa lottery held each year
that mainly attracts unskilled immigrants from developing countries. A yes vote
was to pass HR 6429.

Yes - Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Emerson (R-Mo.), Shimkus (R-Ill.) No - Clay (D-Mo.)
Not voting - Carnahan (D-Mo.), Akin (R-Mo.), Costello (D-Ill.)

Dispute over visas - Members defeated, 231-157, a bid by Democrats to keep HR
6429 (above) from ending the Diversity Immigrant Visa program, which awards
55,000 visas each year by lottery, as a condition of creating the STEM Visa
program that would provide green cards to 55,000 highly educated foreigners. A
yes vote was to retain the diversity program.

Yes - Clay (D-Mo.) No - Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Emerson (R-Mo.), Shimkus (R-Ill.)
Not voting - Carnahan (D-Mo.), Akin (R-Mo.), Costello (D-Ill.)

KEY SENATE VOTES

Terrorist suspects' rights - Senators voted, 67-29, to bar the indefinite
detention without trial of terrorism suspects seized in the U.S. who are U.S.
citizens or legal residents. The prohibition was added to the 2013 military
budget (S 3254), which remained in debate. A yes vote backed the measure.

Yes - McCaskill (D-Mo.), Blunt (R-Mo.), Durbin (D-Ill.) No - None. Not voting -
Kirk (R-Ill.)

Guantanamo Bay prisoners - Senators voted, 54-41, to bar the administration from
transferring inmates from the Guantanamo Bay prison to federal prisons in the
U.S. A yes vote was to add the prohibition to S 3254 (above) over arguments that
"supermax" American prisons already hold 180 terrorists. Yes - Blunt (R-Mo.) No
- McCaskill (D-Mo.), Durbin (D-Ill.) Not voting - Kirk (R-Ill.)

Green military fuels - Senators voted, 62-37, to further the military's use of
alternative fuels produced in the U.S. to reduce dependence on foreign oil. The
amendment was added to S 3254 (above). A yes vote was to increase the Pentagon's
use of nonfossil fuels such as biofuels.

Yes - McCaskill (D-Mo.), Blunt (R-Mo.), Durbin (D-Ill.) No - None. Not voting -
Kirk (R-Ill.)

Expanded Iran sanctions - Senators voted, 94-0, to expand existing U.S. economic
sanctions on Iran and global firms that conduct certain types of business with
Iran. In part, the amendment would place sanctions on companies that sell
certain commodities to Iran's port, shipping and shipbuilding sectors and would
penalize its state-run broadcasting system for airing show trials and forced
confessions. A yes vote backed the amendment to S 3254 (above).

Yes - McCaskill (D-Mo.), Blunt (R-Mo.), Durbin (D-Ill.) No - None. Not voting -
Kirk (R-Ill.)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 30, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Politics and the court Our view o Three major cases confront the Supreme Court
in an election year.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: 0


In the coming year, the U.S. Supreme Court will take up three issues that would
be important at any time in the nation's history: health care reform,
immigration enforcement and determinations of geographical boundaries of
legislative districts.

But, because all three issues are politically volatile, the cases could be
particularly important in 2011, an election year, although precisely how will
depend on what the justices decide.

Oral arguments in a Texas case involving legislative districts are scheduled for
Jan. 9. The court has allotted three days in March for arguments on the federal
health care reform law. The challenge to Arizona's immigration law of 2010
probably will come up in April.

The court's rulings could have far-ranging effects on the lives of Americans and
alter the division of power between the federal government and the states. All
three issues could indicate whether the court - the one branch of government
that should stand above politics - has become yet another forum for partisan
squabbling.

Challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 received
heavy scrutiny as they worked their way to the Supreme Court from district and
appellate courts. The overriding question is whether two parts of Article 1,
Section 8, of the Constitution - the commerce clause and the
necessary-and-proper clause - give Congress the power to require Americans to
purchase health insurance.

Opponents say this so-called individual mandate exceeds that authority. A
related question is whether the rest of the law would remain valid if the
mandate were ruled unconstitutional.

A third aspect of the case involves the law's requirement that states expand
eligibility for Medicaid to include virtually all uninsured low-income
residents. The federal government ordinarily covers the majority of Medicaid
costs. In the new law, the feds would pay states 100 percent of the expansion
costs, but only for three years, starting in 2014. The states challenging the
law say the expansion amounts to coercion.

Finally, a little-known provision of the federal tax code known as the
Anti-Injunction Act raises the possibility that all existing challenges to the
health care reform law are invalid. The provision prohibits lawsuits against any
tax before it takes effect. The health care law levies a penalty, enforced by
the Internal Revenue Service, for failing to buy insurance, but that part of the
law doesn't go into effect until 2015.

In Texas' 2011 redistricting case, the Republican-dominated Texas legislature
revised maps of legislative districts for its two legislative chambers and the
U.S. House of Representatives to match the results of the 2010 Census. There are
about 4 million more Texans now than in 2000, which entitles the state to four
more seats in Congress. Of the increase, 2.8 million are Hispanic residents and
about 523,000 are African-American.

Texas is among nine states (along with parts of seven other states) with a
history of voting discrimination against racial minorities. By law, it must get
proposed voting-related changes approved by the Department of Justice or by a
three-judge federal court panel in Washington, D.C. Texas chose to submit its
maps to the court panel.

The judges found problems with the legislature's minority standards and decided
a trial was needed to assess the maps. A federal court in San Antonio then drew
up interim maps to use until the trial could be held.

Texas Gov. Rick Perry and other officials filed an emergency petition with the
Supreme Court, asking it to freeze the interim maps (which gave greater voting
power to Hispanics and blacks) and decide whether the Texas legislature or a
federal court is the proper body to draw legislative districts.

The uncertainty has cast confusion over a state primary election scheduled for
March 6.

Arizona's restrictive immigration law, enacted in 2010, included a highly
controversial requirement that state law enforcement officers detain people
stopped for any reason if they cannot prove they are in the United States
legally. In April, a federal appeals court ruled that four provisions of the law
improperly preempt federal law.

In both the immigration and redistricting cases, the court could choose to rule
broadly - giving all states the guidance they need on these controversial issues
- or impose a narrow judgement that applies only in specific instances.

There is no shortage of predictions of how the court will decide these cases.
But until oral arguments provide solid clues to the inclinations of swing
Justice Anthony Kennedy, everything is mere guesswork.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Obama, Democrats taking heavy hits They suffer loss in Wisconsin recall vote,
harsh job figures, threat to health care overhaul and more.

BYLINE: By DONNA CASSATA o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Just one week old, June already is proving a cruel month for
President Barack Obama and the Democrats - and it could get a lot worse.

The political blows from Tuesday's bitter loss in Wisconsin's gubernatorial
recall and from last week's abysmal unemployment numbers could multiply before
the month is out.

The Supreme Court will pass judgment shortly on the president's signature
legislative achievement - the 2010 law overhauling the nation's health care
system - and also will decide on his administration's challenge to Arizona's
tough immigration law. If Chief Justice John Roberts and the court strike down
all or part of the health care law, it could demoralize Democrats who invested
more than a year - and quite a few political careers - to secure its passage.

And in Arizona, aside from the big immigration case, the Democrats are fighting
to hold onto the House seat of Gabrielle Giffords, who resigned in January to
focus on recovering from her gunshot wound. In next Tuesday's special election,
former Giffords aide Ron Barber is locked in a close race with Republican Jesse
Kelly, who lost to her in 2010 by just 4,156 votes.

Facing an election-year summer fraught with political peril, the Democrats are
struggling to revive supporters' spirits and counteract developments that could
energize Republicans and solidify public opinion that the country is on the
wrong track and in need of new leadership.

Even before the votes were counted in Republican Gov. Scott Walker's win over
Democrat Tom Barrett Tuesday night, there was hand-wringing and second-guessing
among Democrats on Capitol Hill.

- The jobs numbers have them worried that they'll be running on a weak economy,
with the White House - and them - getting the blame.

- Wisconsin's implications for the general election and for organized labor have
some asking why Obama didn't get more involved than an eleventh-hour tweet.

- The looming Supreme Court decision on the health care law has some Democrats
insisting that the White House and the party did a terrible job selling the
overhaul to the American people.

There's no shortage of Democratic advice on how Obama should frame the message
for voters in the next five months.

In Wisconsin, millions of dollars spent on Walker's behalf trumped labor's
get-out-the-vote effort in a swing state that suddenly moves up on the
battleground list in the presidential race. Republicans also have set their
sights on the seat of retiring Wisconsin Sen. Herb Kohl in a race that probably
will pit Democratic Rep. Tammy Baldwin against the winner of the Aug. 14 GOP
primary. Tommy Thompson, a former governor who was secretary of the Department
of Health and Human Services under President George W. Bush, faces former Rep.
Mark Neumann, state Assembly Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald and millionaire hedge fund
manager Eric Hovde.

Hours before Walker's win, Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Fla., said Obama should have
gone to Wisconsin to help Barrett.

"I don't understand what he stood to lose in Wisconsin. I can't make that make
sense," Hastings said in an interview. He wondered if Obama had been overly
worried about alienating the "3 or 4 percent of Republicans that may have voted
for him the last time," and added, "Nobody, nobody knows what so-called
independents are going to do."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: 0


Marchers protest NYPD's frisk tactics

Thousands of protesters from civil rights groups walked down New York City's
Fifth Avenue in total silence Sunday, marching in defiance of "stop-and-frisk"
tactics used by city police. Protesters strode along Central Park from Harlem to
Mayor Michael Bloomberg's town house on the Upper East Side. As they passed
Bloomberg's home, the crowd erupted in protest chants.

Stiff wind fuels Colorado wildfire - Crews in northern Colorado faced powerful
wind Sunday as they battled a blaze that had scorched about 86 square miles of
mountainous forest land and destroyed at least 181 homes, the most in state
history. Local authorities were worrying about looting.

Wildfire in California - Authorities were evacuating homes in San Diego County,
Calif., as firefighters battled a 100-acre wildfire that had destroyed one
structure. The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said the
fire began about 2 p.m. Sunday northeast of Campo, Calif.

Arizona law is expected to prompt lawsuits - Police agencies that would enforce
the most controversial part of Arizona's 2010 immigration law are expected to
get squeezed by legal challenges from opposite sides if the U.S. Supreme Court
upholds the law. Opponents of the Arizona law, known as SB1070, are likely to
sue police departments on claims that officers racially profile people as they
enforce the provision of the law that requires police to check the immigration
status of people they stop for other reasons. But legal challenges also are
expected from supporters who could claim that a police agency has broken the law
if it restricts the enforcement of SB1070.

Rescued sailor takes slow boat home - A Northern California man who was rescued
from his sinking sailboat off the coast of Mexico last week was spending
Father's Day on a freighter bound for Panama, but his wife hopes to see him in
time for their 23rd wedding anniversary in another week. Max Young, 67, of
Sacramento was sailing late Tuesday about 40 miles west of La Playa, Mexico,
when his 50-foot boat was hit by a whale, lost its steering and started taking
on water, Coast Guard Petty Officer 2nd Class Pamela Boehland said.

Two Alaskan troopers wounded, gunman dead - A standoff in a remote Alaska town
that left two state troopers injured ended with the alleged gunman taking his
own life, authorities said. Alaska State Troopers spokeswoman Beth Ipsen said
Arvid Nelson Jr. of Kotzebue died Sunday evening of an apparent self-inflicted
gunshot wound. The standoff began Sunday morning after troopers responded to a
report of shots possibly fired. In an ensuing shooting, one trooper was wounded
seriously and flown to Anchorage from Kotzebue, an Arctic Circle town. The other
trooper suffered less serious injuries.

Read more national news at stltoday.com/news/national.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Seth Wenig o Associated Press The Rev. Al Sharpton leads a
silent march Sunday to end the "stop-and-frisk" program employed by New York
City police.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 130 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: 0


Court blocks Alabama student citizenship checks - A federal appeals court has
blocked Alabama schools from checking on the citizenship status of new students.
The provision was part of the state's tough new immigration law.

The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Monday that the provision wrongly
singles out children who are in the country illegally.

The court separately says Alabama police can continue checking immigration
documents for people they stop. The 11th Circuit was the first appeals court to
consider the schools provision.

Navy officer removed after harassment claims - The commanding officer of a
Florida-based warship was removed from the post during an overseas deployment
after several female crew members alleged that he sexually harassed women aboard
ship, a Navy report shows.

Cmdr. Derick Armstrong was relieved of command in May, about six months after
his promotion to the top job aboard the guided-missile destroyer The Sullivans.

U.S. seizes $150 million linked to Hezbollah - U.S. authorities say they have
seized $150 million linked to a scheme by the Lebanese Shiite militant group
Hezbollah to launder drug money. Prosecutors in New York City announced Monday
that they used a seizure warrant to take the money from an escrow account in
Lebanon.

Nude dip puts Kansas legislator in spotlight - A Kansas congressman's 10-second
naked plunge into the sea where the Bible says Jesus walked on water prompted
apologies Monday from him, head-shaking from other Republicans and the kind of
international attention no politician wants.

Other lawmakers on the trip also went into the water, and Kevin Yoder said their
actions earned them a rebuke from House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. But
Politico reported Sunday that Yoder was the only one who wore no clothes.

Hispanics set school enrollment records - The Pew Hispanic Center reports that
last year, more than 2 million Hispanics ages 18-24 were enrolled in college,
and nearly a fourth of all pre-K through 12th-grade public school students last
year were Hispanic.

Aussie gets senior post at U.S. Army Pacific - An Australian two-star general
will become a deputy commander of U.S. Army Pacific, which oversees more than
60,000 American soldiers in the Asia-Pacific region, Army Secretary John McHugh
said Monday.

Maj. Gen. Richard Maxwell Burr of the Australian Defense Force will direct
training and supervise the command's efforts to work with countries in south
Asia, plus Australia and New Zealand.

Read more national news at stltoday.com/nation.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  digest

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
