
                               1 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 1386 words


State's immigration bill is mean-spirited and anti-business

The Missouri/Kansas Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association was
disappointed that Gov. Blunt signed into law House Bill 1549, "Illegal Aliens
and Immigration Status Verification." The bill not only presents challenges to
Missouri employers that only will deter growth in this time of economic
uncertainty, but it also is mean-spirited and duplicative of current federal
law.

For example, participation in the federal work authorization program E-Verify
now will be required for many Missouri employers, raising fears that the growing
number of regulatory burdens imposed by state laws will drive many businesses to
relocate and deter new businesses from operating in Missouri.

Additionally, the Missouri State Highway Patrol will be required to receive
training from the Department of Homeland Security to enforce federal immigration
laws - a measure that redirects already-limited law enforcement funding to
target minor traffic violations and encourages racial profiling and the further
victimization of immigrants, many of whom already are too afraid to report
crimes.

While the chapter agrees that the federal government has failed to address
fundamental, structural problems with the country's broken immigration system,
it also believes that bills such as HB 1549 do not adequately deal with
Congress' failures to provide options for employers to hire legal workers or to
keep families together. It is time to abandon the politics of the issue and come
up with a fair, practical solution to our immigration crisis that requires
undocumented immigrants to earn legal status and contribute to the American
economy and society.

Suzanne Brown | St. Louis Chair, Missouri / Kansas Chapter American Immigration
Lawyers Association

Help is available for suicidal teens

Regarding "Mom works to prevent teen suicide" (July 12): Thanks for the article
on teen suicide. As a mother and a bereavement counselor, I was glad to see
this. However, information about the local suicide hot line should have been
included. Life Crisis provides incredible services to suicidal people in the St.
Louis area. Its number is 314-647-4357. Suicide is the leading killer of teens.

Suicide is horrible all the way around, but it is especially stigmatized by our
community and is traumatic to survive. Suicide sometimes can be prevented with
the proper information and support.

Susan Palmquist | St. Louis

Buy American

Most unions tell their members to buy "American" - things that are built or
grown or brewed by American-owned companies. To buy anything else is bad for
America. InBev is not an American company. What will happen when, in every union
hall in this country, union members are told that all Anheuser-Busch products
are owned and sold by a foreign company? How much consumption will cease? What
if American consumers "celebrated" this sale by not buying any A-B products?
Sure, jobs would be lost, but the point would be made that if Anheuser-Busch
sells the company, many millions would be lost.

Now that A-B is foreign beer, who needs it?

Mike Jenkins | Hillsboro

Patriotic investing

The shareholders must vote on the sale of Anheuser-Busch to InBev. While it
might be a prudent short-term decision to sell, shareholders should think again.

InBev's relatively easy slide into ownership has shaken up A-B and made the big
guys realize that they need to cut costs and work to boost A-B's value in order
to keep away corporate predators. They won't get the chance if InBev wins this
round. More shareholders are looking at the social value of investing. Perhaps
saving an American icon, American jobs and an American city is more important to
shareholders than making a quick buck. Perhaps there are more shareholders than
we think who are in it for the long haul and believe in the long-term value of
an American company that has survived a myriad of difficult times.

Shareholders should not throw away their ballots or proxy. Vote no. If your
retirement fund holds A-B stock, threaten to move your investment to another
fund if the fund managers don't vote now. And if you are golfing buddies with
Warren Buffet, have him give me a call.

Jennifer Suits | Broken Arrow, Okla.

Obvious violation

A merger between Anheuser-Busch and InBev would violate antitrust laws.
Anheuser-Busch controls about half of the American beer market. InBev sells beer
in this county. When a company controls half of a market, any merger with
another seller has anti-competitive effects and violates antitrust statutes.

Candidates for president should be asked if they would enforce the antitrust
laws and prevent a merger between Anheuser Busch and InBev.

Kevin Sweeney | Mount Vernon, Ill.

Turning point

St. Louis, that was not seismic activity you felt. It was the generations of
loyal Anheuser-Busch employees (including my father and grandfather) turning
over in their graves.

Dennis Drexler | St. Louis

Beijing beckons

As I read Terry Sater's column "The sweet illusion of socialism" (July 10), I
heard the voice and pen of former Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy, R-Wis., attempting to
frighten every American into believing that there is a Marxist or communist
behind every Democratic Party bush. Will Mr. Sater be going to the opening of
the Olympic games with our president? Now there is a country that holds most of
the mortgage on our nation and where a person can find some true Marxists.

William Russell | Chesterfield

Stirring fear

Regarding Terry Sater's column "The sweet illusion of socialism" (July 10): U.S.
Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., the probable Democratic nominee for president, is a
moderate politician with some progressive values on some issues and some
conservative values on other issues. To accuse him of anything else requires
that the accuser either be so far-right as to be a fascist or be willfully
misleading people in order to stir up fear and foster ignorance. Which is it,
Mr. Sater?

Dan Alamia | University City

Debased discourse

In keeping with the fevered zealotry of the last four months of the four-year
free-for-all, Terry Sater has debased discourse another notch. In "The sweet
illusion of socialism" (July 10), he hints darkly that U.S. Sen. Barack Obama,
D-Ill., the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, is a socialist,
Marxist or communist, take your pick.

I'm sure it would send Mr. Sater scurrying if one accused him and his Republican
cohorts of being fascists, but that is precisely the other side the mud-slinging
coin.

Fred Ehrstein | Belleville

Open wide

According to the editorial "Less, alas, isn't more" (July 11), "practically
every available rig is at work drilling for oil, and today's prices provide
powerful incentive. Some of the older fields are playing out, and no one really
knows how much oil is out there." This would set the stage for the need to drill
off-shore and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and use the oil shale
fields in the west. But alas, these are "fraught with political risk."

The risk is in battling with the Sierra Club tree-huggers, the obstinate
Democrats in Congress and, recently, the governors of New Jersey and California,
who are concerned with tourism or have spun it to the plight of the oceans.
There hasn't been an oil spill from a rig since 1967.

Conservation is not "the only real solution" but is one segment among others,
including drilling. No, we cannot drill our way out of this problem ("crisis" is
a hackneyed term), but until someone comes up with an alternative to the black
liquid, open up these blocked areas.

Edward Wolfe | Kirkwood

Part of the answer

The editorial "Less, alas, isn't more" (July 11) contains two words that
exemplify the energy problem. The first is "the," as in: "The only real solution
is conservation." There is no one solution. Conservation is a part of the
answer. Great strides have been made for decades in making machinery and motors
more energy efficient. But conservation alone will not support a growing world
economy.

The second word is "political," as in: "Newer domestic supplies ... are fraught
with political risk." Judging by recent pronouncements by some legislators in
both major parties that they are willing to consider allowing more drilling in
previously restricted areas, there seems to be more "political" risk in $4 gas.

Richard Buckley | Manchester

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

People demand democracy - not demagoguery - on immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A35

LENGTH: 695 words


Congress refuses to act

The editorial "Demagoguery times two" (Dec. 26) questioned the motives of Gov.
Matt Blunt and Attorney General Jay Nixon in promoting state legislation to stop
illegal immigrants from coming to or staying in Missouri. The editorial argued
that the estimated 65,000 illegal immigrants in this state are not a problem,
this issue doesn't matter and federal laws deal with the problem.

The federal government has not enforced these laws for years. Smugglers who
bring in drugs or illegal immigrants constitute a threat. The unemployment rate
in Missouri is above the national average, so illegal immigrants may have taken
65,000 jobs from our citizens.

Missourians recognize the danger posed by illegal immigration and the need to
stop it before it becomes a major problem. Because President George W. Bush
refuses to enforce federal immigration laws, our citizens have asked our state
leaders to solve the problem. Mr. Blunt and Mr. Nixon are responding to the
people's demands. This is the bedrock of the republic and an example of
government by the people. It is called democracy, not demagoguery.

Wayne Weaver | West St. Louis County

The help-wanted ad

The Post-Dispatch's help-wanted ads in November for "temporary workers" for
landscaping companies were interesting reading. These companies were soliciting
applicants for "seasonal-temporary work" for February through November for a
minimum 40 hours a week at the "prevailing wage" of $8 an hour for a job that
often requires 12 hours a day, seven days a week. Applicants must be able to
lift 75 to 80 pounds repeatedly. And "hand-shovel digging (is) required."

Seasonal work, using a reasonable-man standard, is three months;
"temporary-seasonal," as in holiday retail help, is two months. A standard work
year of 52 40-hour work weeks totals 2,080 hours of work a year. The 10-month
landscaper's temporary help exceeds that. Temporary workers are requested year
after year for this 10-month "season." Using that rationale, much of the
construction trades are seasonal. Contractors could advertise a prevailing wage
of $8 an hour, freeing them to seek cheap labor, too.

How is a $8 a "prevailing wage"? Today, a teenager receives $20 an hour for
mowing one lawn. As of Jan. 1, the Missouri minimum wage is $6.65 an hour. The
landscaping industry is seeking the cheapest labor under the guise of paying
just $1.35 more per hour so as to reap greater profits.

The landscaping industry claims citizens are not willing to do this work.
Baloney! We are willing to do this work, but not at $8 an hour. The industry
should pay what the market dictates; the result would be a strong, dedicated
work force year after year.

Lawns need to be tended. Equipment needs to be bought. I know landscapers who
make a good living without the use of H-2B temporary workers. The sky is not
falling. Concerned residents should call or write their senators and
representative to urge them to defeat this bill as soon as Congress reconvenes.

Alexandra Fitzgerald | Wentzville

Punish employers

Congress doesn't speak out against illegal immigration (for fear of losing
votes). So it is up to the states to act. Both Gov. Matt Blunt and Attorney
General Jay Nixon agree on that, but they have different ideas about how to fix
the problem. If employers don't hire undocumented workers, the workers will have
to go elsewhere. Illegal immigrants should receive no benefits - a drivers
license or medical benefits - because they are lawbreakers.

Some people say illegal immigrants take jobs no one else wants. That's
questionable. We could give some of these jobs to people on welfare or to
prisoners.

Employers like to hire undocumented workers so they won't have to pay high wages
and benefits. Oklahoma recently enacted legislation that limits public
assistance and other benefits to illegal immigrants and punishes employers who
hire undocumented workers. It also allows law enforcement to apprehend illegal
immigrants. By punishing the employers, the illegal immigrants won't go to
Oklahoma.

If Democrats and Republicans would work together, illegal immigrants would be
persuaded to go elsewhere or go home.

George H. Norton | Ferguson

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS FROM READERS YOUR VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Xenophobia

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 573 words


State Sen. Chris Koster, R-Harrisonville, wants Missouri to set up a new state
bureaucracy to make life miserable for thousands of low-wage immigrant workers.
The new Missouri immigration agents would be charged with driving illegal aliens
out of their homes and jobs.

Mr. Koster's bill, SB 348, is an attempt to spread statewide the mean
spiritedness of Valley Park's anti-immigrant ordinance. It underscores the need
for Congress to pass practical immigration reform before the issue becomes an
even bigger headline-grabber for politicians with a jingoistic streak.

Under the bill, citizens would be encouraged to report "suspected" illegal
immigrants to a new a Division of Immigration Compliance. The division would
check the suspect's status with federal immigration officials. Then, the state
would order an illegal immigrant's boss to fire him and the landlord to evict
him and his family.

Employers and landlords who refused to take action could find their business and
occupancy permits revoked.

That poses a potential problem for everyone - regardless of their immigration
status - with brown skin or a foreign accent. Why would a landlord want to court
trouble by renting to such a person, risking the wrath of Missouri's immigration
agents, when a white applicant is next in line?

How is a landlord to tell legal from illegal when the marketplace is full of
phony IDs? Even employers often are fooled, although an experimental federal
computer system can catch some more obvious dodges.

The bill also bans illegal immigrants from attending Missouri's state
universities. That means that admissions officers must become immigration
officers, too. Towns also would be allowed to fine employers who hire and
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants.

All this is a colossal waste of state taxpayers' money, in addition to being
xenophobic in the extreme. Immigration policy is best addressed at the federal
level, and it looks like we're headed toward a solution.

President George W. Bush proposed a rational approach toward the 12 million
illegal immigrants believed to be in the United States, only to be stymied by
the right wing of his own party. With Democrats now in charge in Congress,
compromise is in the air.

Mr. Bush proposes that those who have been here for years and have clean records
would receive work permits after paying a fine. Eventually, they would become
permanent residents and citizens. We'd prefer a simple amnesty for all
law-abiding immigrants, but it will do.

Millions could climb up from the shadows. It would be harder for unscrupulous
employers undercut the honest competition by hiring desperate illegal workers at
low pay. More of those workers could now compete in the legal job market.

That solution beats all alternatives. America isn't going to deport 12 million
people, and there should be no cowering underclass in this nation of equals.

Mr. Bush also would beef up border security to reduce the flow of new illegal
immigrants and add penalties for employers who knowingly hire them. Both are
good ideas.

More troublesome is Mr. Bush's plan for a guest worker program. It could ease
pressure on the border, but any program should be carefully limited. Employers
shouldn't be allowed to import cheap labor in order to avoid paying American
wages.

Mr. Bush's plan could use some tweaking, but it is a practical, humane approach.
By contrast, Mr. Koster is proposing a spiteful invitation to discrimination.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  IMMIGRATION OPINION

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - Paul Lachine | Newsart

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bush demands comprehensive immigration bill IN ARIZONA He calls for guest worker
plan and resolving status of those here.

BYLINE: By Michael A. Fletcher Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz.


President George W. Bush outlined the latest version of his plan to overhaul the
nation's immigration laws Monday, renewing his support for a guest worker
program for those with low skills and calling for a resolution of the legal
status of the estimated 12 million undocumented workers now in the country.

Speaking at the dedication of a state-of-the-art Border Patrol station here a
few miles from the U.S.-Mexican border, the president called on Congress to pass
comprehensive immigration legislation.

Bush said the overhaul should combine increased border security, stepped-up
pressure on employers who hire illegal immigrants, and a plan to establish a
legal avenue for large numbers of guest workers to come into the country, while
resolving the status of the undocumented workers already here.

"Congress can pass a comprehensive bill and I can sign it into law this year,"
Bush said.

Since becoming president, Bush has viewed immigration as an issue in which he
could make his mark as a "compassionate conservative" while extending the reach
of the Republican Party to the fast-growing ranks of Latino voters who tend to
lean Democratic. But the swirling politics surrounding the emotional issue have
left Bush groping for a viable path toward a solution, even as his own political
capital continues to be drained by the war in Iraq.

Saying "family values don't stop at the Rio Grande River," Bush spoke movingly
of the hardworking immigrants who risk their lives to cross the southern border
to provide for their families and contribute to the national fabric in the same
way immigrants have for generations. In passing any new legislation, Bush said
Congress should honor "our proud history as a nation of immigrants."

Bush came under pressure from many Republicans who wanted him to do more to halt
illegal immigration before last fall's midterm election. While the pressure
caused Bush to support an "enforcement only" measure as a first step toward
revamping immigration policy, the strategy did not necessarily help some of the
staunchest advocates of border security policies.

In Arizona, a state keenly affected by illegal immigration, for example, Gov.
Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who favors a guest worker program as part of
immigration reform, won a convincing re-election victory. Meanwhile, Rep. J.D.
Hayworth, R-Ariz., who had raised the specter of mass deportations of illegal
immigrants, lost his re-election bid to Democrat Harry E. Mitchell, who favors a
more balanced approach.

Some advocates say Bush is well aware of those lessons and the future
implications among Hispanic voters for the GOP. "He wants a legacy on
immigration to be sure," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum. "But politically, if the Republicans repeat their 30 percent
2006 Latino performance, they can't win the White House and take back the
Congress. Period."

Bush appears poised to embrace a more punitive reform plan than he has talked
about in the past. Under the proposal, undocumented workers could apply for
three-year work visas, renewable at a cost of $3,500 each time. To become
permanent legal residents, they would have to return to their home countries,
apply for re-entry at a U.S. embassy or consulate, and pay a $10,000 fine.

The proposal, which White House aides have called just one of many ideas the
president would consider, has nonetheless drawn strong rebukes from immigration
activists and business groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

McCaskill may block immigration nominee vote

BYLINE: By Deirdre Shesgreen POST-DISPATCH WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Claire McCaskill held out on Wednesday the possibility of blocking a final
vote on the president's top immigration enforcement nominee, ratcheting up her
battle with his administration over prosecuting rogue employers who hire illegal
workers.

After getting what she said was a last-minute and incomplete answer to a
question she has been asking federal immigration officials for weeks, McCaskill,
D-Mo., said she was still opposed to Julie Myers' nomination to be assistant
secretary of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

McCaskill's move came even as Myers won approval on Wednesday from the Homeland
Security and Government Affairs Committee. The tally was 8-1, with McCaskill the
sole nay vote.

At Myers' confirmation hearing earlier this month, she told McCaskill she didn't
know how many employers had been charged for hiring illegal workers. McCaskill
expressed outrage and said she wouldn't vote for Myers until she got an answer.

McCaskill has long argued that the solution to the illegal immigration problem
is to crack down on employers who knowingly hire illegal workers.

On Tuesday night, about 12 hours before the scheduled committee vote on Myers'
nomination, ICE officials delivered to McCaskill a list of people arrested so
far this year in immigration cases. But the list, with 842 names, did not
differentiate between employers and illegal workers, as McCaskill had asked.

Agency officials told the senator it would take until January, and consume about
2,000 hours of immigration agents' time, to figure out how many of the 842
people were employers.

"I am deeply troubled by the inability of this agency to answer a very basic
question," McCaskill said Wednesday. "If you can't tell me that, you shouldn't
run the place."

Myers, a Kansas native whose husband, John Wood, is the U.S. attorney in Kansas
City, already does run ICE. President George W. Bush named her as a recess
appointee after the Senate balked at her nomination in 2005 amid questions about
her experience and ability to do the job.

The White House has now renominated her because the recess appointment has
expired. With Wednesday's homeland security vote, Myers' nomination goes to the
Senate.

ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said Myers had already called for law enforcement
databases to be reprogrammed to allow officials to get the kind of information
McCaskill wants. Nantel said such data would be available for the next fiscal
year.

McCaskill said that, at first glance, most of the names on the list - which was
marked "law enforcement sensitive" and which ICE officials said she could not
make public - appeared to be those of immigrants.

Asked whether she planned to put a hold on Myers' nomination to prevent the full
Senate from voting on her, McCaskill said, "I haven't decided yet."

Several other senators on the homeland security committee said they shared
McCaskill's concerns. "You can't manage what you can't measure," said Sen. Tom
Coburn, R-Okla.

But Coburn and others said Myers had done a great job.

"You haven't seen what a mess" the immigration agency was before Myers took
over, Coburn told McCaskill.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Myers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

7 at plant accused of hiring illegals

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mo.


Seven employees of poultry processor George's Inc. were arrested Wednesday on
federal charges of hiring illegal immigrants at a plant in southwestern Missouri
that was raided by immigration authorities in May.

John F. Wood, U.S. attorney for the Western District of Missouri, said the
indictments and arrests showed that no one was above the law when it comes to
hiring illegal workers.

The seven defendants are all employees of a George's processing plant in
Butterfield, about 60 miles southwest of Springfield. All seven were involved in
hiring or supervising employees at the plant, Wood said.

"This is an active and ongoing investigation," Wood said at a news conference.

He declined to say if that investigation included whether people higher up in
the privately owned company were suspected of knowing about the illegal hiring.

George's, based in Springdale, Ark., did not immediately respond to phone calls
and e-mail requests for comment.

Immigration agents and police raided the Butterfield plant in May. They arrested
136 people - most of them from Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador - on
suspicion of being illegal immigrants.

Prosecutors said most of the defendants charged Wednesday were expected to be
released on bail. None has yet had a hearing at which a plea could be entered.

Those named in the charges are Guadalupe Castro, 32, of Verona; Brad Vansandt,
48, and Dora Ruiz, 32, both of Monett; Jody Salinas, 29, and Billy Essley, 41,
both of Cassville; Gary Creed, 31, of Washburn; and Hilda Gomez, 35, hometown
unknown.

Wood said prosecutors would ask that Ruiz be held without bail because she is on
probation for a drug conviction in New Mexico.

All seven were indicted by a federal grand jury on two counts each related to
hiring and harboring illegal immigrants. Those charges are felonies that each
carry a maximum 10 years in prison.

In addition, Castro, Gomez, Salinas and Ruiz were each charged with aiding and
abetting aggravated identity theft for allegedly helping illegal immigrants use
valid Social Security numbers from other people. Wood said that felony charge
carried a maximum two-year sentence that must be served on top of any other
term.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Missouri Senate backs crackdown Business: Companies would be penalized for
hiring illegal workers. Education: High school attendance could open college
doors.

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Immigration legislation, a top priority for Gov. Matt Blunt and Republican
legislative leaders, moved off dead center Tuesday when the Senate unexpectedly
endorsed a wide-ranging crackdown.

The plan would strip business licenses and state contracts from employers who
knowingly hire undocumented workers. However, employers could escape penalties
if they used a federal database to verify workers' residency.

Illegal immigrants would be ineligible for most state and local services,
including grants, loans, welfare, disability, housing and food assistance. They
could not get drivers licenses and could be denied bail when jailed.

But illegal immigrants could attend public colleges and universities if they had
spent at least three semesters in a Missouri high school.

Sen. Jeff Smith, D-St. Louis, fought for that provision, saying it was
"egregious to think we would go after kids who want a better life."

The measure, which has been stuck for months, won first-round approval on a
voice vote. The debate was unusually mild and lasted less than an hour. Only
five senators were present in the chamber.

Another vote, this one by roll call, will be needed to send the bill to the
House. The sponsor, Sen. Scott Rupp, R-Wentzville, said he was confident it
would pass.

Most legislators "understand it and wanted to get it done. This bill represents
everything we legally can do" under federal law, Rupp said. He called it "a
level-headed approach that makes sense."

The breakthrough came when Rupp reached a compromise with business groups. They
gained protection from frivolous complaints and lawsuits by fired workers.

Critics said the bill was an overreaction to a small problem. They said
immigration was a federal issue and should be policed by federal authorities,
not state government.

Joan Suarez, who represents a coalition called the Missouri Immigrant and
Refugee Advocates, said colleges and universities would have to check the legal
status of thousands of students when a study showed only about 200 lacked legal
residency.

"It's a big waste," Suarez said. "It's one thing if we were in California or
Arizona or New York, where there are large numbers of undocumented folks. We're
talking about 200 kids. They're paying out-of-state tuition. They're there
without any kind of scholarships, attempting to get more education and paying
through the teeth to get it."

The House has taken a different approach, passing a bill that would require
colleges to certify that they did not knowingly enroll illegal immigrants,
before they could receive state money.

The House sponsor, Rep. Jerry Nolte, R-Gladstone, said he would study the Senate
version. Nolte said he was glad the Senate had tackled the subject, calling
Rupp's stewardship of the bill "masterful."

Although the bill would make it a crime to transport illegal immigrants, Smith
secured an exemption for those who provide transportation to hospitals, soup
kitchens, crisis counseling or abuse shelters.

Smith said he still opposed the bill but wanted to "make improvements and
protect as many people as we can who are in vulnerable situations."

Business lobbyists said the bill addressed most of their concerns.

The federal verification system, known as E-Verify, uses a Social Security
database, which has a 4 percent error rate. Businesses worried that they would
be forced to rely on the flawed database, then get sued under the Human Rights
Act for wrongfully firing a worker.

"We had to fire them under one law and not fire them under another," said
Michael Grote, who lobbies for the Missouri Chamber of Commerce & Industry.

Grote said the bill avoided that Catch-22 by protecting employers from such
suits. He also noted that the penalties for employers would be repealed if the
federal government quit funding the database.

"All this may be moot," he said. ]The bill is SB858.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

MASTER BILL LIST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 704 words


Here's how some of the major bills fared during the 2008 session of the Missouri
Legislature:

PASSEDImmigration: Bars illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits and
getting drivers licenses. Imposes sanctions against employers who hire them
unless they used an electronic verification system. Stops cities from harboring
illegal immigrants. (HB1549)

- Property tax: Requires local governments to roll back rates to keep tax
collections stable when property values rise after reassessment. Increases
relief for senior citizens and the disabled. (SB711)

- Teacher certification: Allows career-changers to teach after being certified
by the American Board for Certification of Teaching Excellence. (SB1066)

- Aircraft plant: Authorizes up to $240 million in tax credits over eight years
to attract Bombardier Aerospace plant to Kansas City International Airport.
(HB2393)

- Meth crackdown: Creates an electronic monitoring program targeting some cold
medicines that are used to make meth. Also allows some nurses to prescribe
drugs. (SB724)

- College scholarships: Increases funding for Access Missouri to $95 million,
allowing aid to families with average adjusted gross incomes of about $102,000.
(HB2003)

- Veterans tuition: Limits college tuition to $50 per credit hour for combat
veterans. (SB830)

- Organ donation: Prevents family members from vetoing an organ donor's
decision. (SB1139)

- Mortgage fraud: Creates the crime of mortgage fraud. (HB2188)

- Local government: Repeals law allowing developers to skirt zoning laws by
forming villages. (SB765)

- Tax credits: Allows state to grant additional $48 million in business tax
incentives under the Quality Jobs and Enhanced Enterprise Zone programs.
(HB2058)

- Cyber harassment: Toughens harassment laws in response to Megan Meier's death.
(SB818)

- Ignition interlock: Requires an ignition interlock device after a second
drunken driving conviction. (SB930)

- Show-me green sales tax holiday: Gives consumers a break for energy-efficient
products purchased during a seven-day period. (SB1181)

- Campaign finance: Removes money limits on political contributions. (SB1038)

- Utility regulation: Allows PSC to approve Aquila plant after it's been built.
(SB720)

- Second Injury Fund: Changes Supreme Court ruling that allowed dependents to
receive benefits even after a disabled worker died. (HB1883)

DID NOT PASS- Judiciary: Cuts circuit judgeships in St. Louis by four. (SB976)

- Licenses for dropouts: Prohibits drivers licenses for dropouts and students
with bad grades. (HB2078)

- HPV: Provides information about HPV vaccine to girls in sixth grade and pays
for vaccine if the family can't afford it. (SB778)

- Voter ID: Changes constitution to require photo identification to vote.
(HJR48)

- St. Louis police: Gives the city of St. Louis control over its police force.
(HB2117)

- Health care: Extends state-paid insurance to working poor but requires most to
set up health savings accounts. Increases hospital competition and price
transparency. (SB1283, HB2413)

- Autism scholarships: Provides tax credits for contributing to scholarships for
special-needs children to attend private schools. (HB1886)

- Teacher pay: Raises the minimum teacher salary to $31,000. (HB2040)

- Judge selection: Revises the "Missouri Plan," which determines how state
judges are picked. (HJR49)

- Abortion: Changes consent requirements for abortion and creates crime of
coercing an abortion. (HB1831)

- Biodiesel: Requires a 5 percent biodiesel mixture in all diesel sold in
Missouri by 2010. (SB759)

- Veterans tax break: Eliminates tax on military retirement income. (HB1788)

- Court powers: Prohibits state courts from raising taxes. (HJR41)

- Real ID: Prohibits Missouri from joining the federal Real ID program. (HB1716)

- School prayer: Affirms the right to pray on public property, including
schools. (HJR55)

- Gambling: Places a moratorium on new casino licenses and repeals the $500 loss
limit. (HB1929)

- Spending limit: Proposes constitutional limit on state appropriations. (HJR70)

- Day-care rating system: Creates a five-star rating system for day-scare
providers. Also creates a preschool program for St. Louis Public Schools.
(SB726)

- Midwives: Legalizes and regulates midwifery. (SB1021, HB2081)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 25, 2006 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

A ladder to citizenship

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A41

LENGTH: 608 words


Seventh of eight editorials

Sears sells aluminum ladders in Mexico for about 1,500 pesos ($137). That's all
it would cost to defeat the $2 billion, 700-mile-long fence through the desert
authorized by Congress for our southern border.

A 700-mile fence to protect a 1,900-mile border might keep a few coyotes out,
but it is not an immigration policy, which may explain why Congress didn't
authorize the funds to build it.

In any case, the new Congress, with Democrats in charge, will have a chance to
join President George W. Bush in passing a sensible plan to reduce illegal
immigration and deal realistically with the 12 million illegal immigrants
already living in the United States. Coherent and comprehensive federal law also
could reduce the temptation for communities to enact their own immigration
ordinances, like the one passed earlier this year in Valley Park. A hodge-podge
of reactionary, simplistic local laws is not in the best interests of immigrants
(legal or illegal), employers, municipalities or the nation as a whole.

Some newly elected House Democrats, populists at heart, have their own doubts
about immigration reform. But the Congressional balance clearly has tipped
toward reform.

Such reform must come in three parts:

1. A practical accommodation for the 12 million illegal immigrants who already
are here. Many are settled in, working and paying taxes. Quite a few are raising
American-born children who automatically are citizens. It would be a logistical
nightmare, and a costly one, to try to deport 12 million people. And American
businesses, especially in the agriculture and service sector, don't want them to
go. The Senate bill passed last May - and shot down by the House - would allow
most such immigrants to stay legally after paying fines and back taxes owed on
any off-the-books wages. It would provide them a path to full citizenship,
albeit a long one.

2. A plan to stem the flow of illegal immigrants across the border. Illegal
immigrants won't come if no one will hire them. So, President Bush is right in
calling for tougher enforcement of hiring practices in the work place. As a
practical matter, employers need a quick way to verify an applicant's
immigration status. A temporary visa for guest workers, which Mr. Bush supports,
would allow tens of thousands of workers to come and go legally. But there must
be stiffer penalties for those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants without
temporary visas. Employers should not be allowed to import Mexican workers in
order to undercut American wages. Strong "prevailing wage" requirements are a
must.

We also need tighter border security. A partial answer may come from the Boeing
Co., which is developing a "virtual fence" of electronic sensors to help the
Border Patrol spot border crashers.

3. A higher limit on the number of visas for knowledge workers. Foreign
registered nurses, medical doctors, scientists and engineers should be allowed
to work in fields where there is a shortage of licensed, qualified U.S.
professionals. As with workers in other fields, prevailing wage standards must
be maintained.

Immigration is one issue on which the president and most Democrats agree.
Congress must seize this moment to enact meaningful national reform. Millions of
people have come to America with hope for a better life. Now, they form a vast
underclass, afraid of the police, subject to exploitation by unscrupulous
employers and unable to move out of the shadow economy.

There should be no underclass in a nation founded on the principle that all men
are equal.

---

Tomorrow: The courts.

To read the entire series of editorials online, go to stltoday.com/editorials.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | A PRACTICAL AGENDA OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Raids put focus on identity theft

BYLINE: By Jennifer Talhelm the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials said Wednesday that the raids on meatpacking plants in six
states uncovered a "disturbing front" in the battle against illegal immigration
- identity theft as a tool to obtain employment.

The raids against Swift & Co., a Greeley, Colo.-based meat processor, added up
to the largest-ever workplace crackdown on illegal immigration, said Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff.

Some 5 percent of the 1,282 arrests resulted in identity theft charges, and
Chertoff said the number probably would rise as agents look into more workers'
cases and into rings of vendors who steal and sell illegal documents.

"Violations of our immigration laws and privacy rights often go hand in hand,"
Chertoff said. "Enforcement actions like this one protect the privacy rights of
innocent Americans while striking a blow against illegal immigration."

Observers on both sides of the immigration debate were skeptical, calling
Chertoff's crackdown on identity theft a new refrain in an old song.

Advocates for more enforcement said they had little faith that the Bush
administration would keep up the raids because the president supports a
guest-worker program and a path to citizenship for some of the 11 million
illegal immigrants in the country now.

"This is a little bit of enforcement to create a cover for amnesty," said Steven
Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors
vigorous immigration enforcement.

On the other side, immigrant rights groups said the raid terrorized thousands of
workers and their families but did little to the employers or the people who
sold the workers the documents in the first place.

"We've been doing raids for 20 years, and the immigration problem is soaring,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
immigrant advocacy group. "You can't restore the rule of law until you respond
to the law of supply and demand."

Attorneys for the United Food and Commercial Workers filed papers in federal
court in Denver on Wednesday saying the arrests of the Greeley workers violated
their constitutional rights. The filing claims that those arrested are being
denied access to lawyers and that their whereabouts is unknown.

Chertoff said the raids highlighted a need for the guest-worker program, which
would cut down on the demand for illegal documents.

He also asked for more tools from Congress to allow his agencies to detect when
Social Security numbers are being used by multiple people.

An effort died in Congress this year to create a guest-worker program and a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants. Instead, Bush signed a bill this fall
authorizing a 700-mile fence at the U.S.-Mexico border.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 15, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 388 words


SAN DIEGO

Illegal immigration case nets fine against execs

A Southern California fence-building company and two executives pleaded guilty
Thursday of knowingly hiring illegal immigrants and agreed to pay a combined
penalty of $5 million. The executives could also go to prison, though it's
unusual in such cases.

The penalty is one of the biggest fines ever imposed in an immigration case.

Golden State Fence Co. will pay $4.7 million. Mel Kay, 64, the company's
founder, chairman and president, will forfeit $200,000, and Michael McLaughlin,
42, a manager in the company's Oceanside office, will pay $100,000.

The two men admitted hiring at least 10 illegal immigrants.

LOS ANGELES

Geffen submits bid for Times newspaper

Billionaire music mogul David Geffen has made a $2 billion cash bid for the Los
Angeles Times, two newspapers reported Thursday.

Geffen's bid has not been accepted or rejected by the Times' parent,
Chicago-based Tribune Co., which would prefer a sale of the entire media company
instead of individual assets, the Times and Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.

Geffen did not return a call seeking comment.

Philanthropist Eli Broad and supermarket investor Ron Burkle have teamed to make
a bid for the entire Tribune Co.

MIAMI

Gay man to write tell-all about evangelist

Gay former escort Mike Jones has signed on to write a sexually explicit memoir
about his relationship with fallen evangelist Ted Haggard.

"It's going to review my encounters with Ted and other people who are similar,"
Jones told The Miami Herald.

Jones, 49, won't say how much the book deal is worth.

Just before the November election, the muscular massage therapist told the world
that he had a three-year relationship with Haggard - married president of the 30
million-member National Association of Evangelicals and a leader in the anti-gay
political movement.

ST. GEORGE, Utah

Polygamist to be tried in rape allegations

A judge ordered the leader of a polygamist sect Thursday to stand trial on
charges of rape as an accomplice on allegations that he forced a 14-year-old
girl to marry and have sex with an older cousin in 2001.

Warren Jeffs, 51, pleaded not guilty Thursday in state court. The leader of the
Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints could face up to life
in prison if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Mexican who hauled immigrants is sentenced Judge gives him 2 years plus in
prison, cites history of violating immigration laws.

BYLINE: By Nicholas J.C. Pistor ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: EAST ST. LOUIS


A Mexican national caught transporting 19 illegal immigrants in a van near
Collinsville will serve almost three years in prison, a federal judge ordered
Tuesday.

Gabriel Ortiz-Castenada was indicted by a federal grand jury in March on 21
counts for knowingly trafficking the illegal immigrants from Mexico, re-entering
the country after deportation and using a fraudulent Social Security card.

U.S. District Judge David Herndon said Ortiz-Castenada had a history of breaking
immigration laws.

"There is a pattern here," Herndon said.

Ortiz-Castenada pleaded guilty to the charges in September.

The indictment stated that Ortiz-Castenada had been deported from the United
States to Mexico in 2002, and that he later re-entered the country several
times.

On March 7, Ortiz-Castenada was caught driving a van carrying 19 illegal
immigrants. The immigrants were sitting on the floorboards. He said he was
coming from Phoenix and headed to the Southeast looking for work.

Ortiz-Castenada also admitted to immigration agents that he had purchased a
Social Security card in North Carolina for $1,500.

Ortiz-Castenada, who spoke no English and used an interpreter, pleaded with the
judge for leniency, saying that he was only trying to support his family in
Mexico.

Herndon, calling the charges serious, sentenced Ortiz-Castenada to two years and
nine months in prison.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert L. Garrison, who prosecuted the case, could not
be reached for comment on the status of the other illegal immigrants who were in
the van.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Needed: a new Ellis Island, not a fence

BYLINE: Robert Batterson

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 602 words


Flush with optimism, the Democratic majority in the new Congress is expected to
make another attempt at bipartisan immigration reform legislation early in the
new session. Let's hope they can get it together and craft a law that really
makes sense for both immigrants and the U.S. economy in 2007.

The Democrats hope to pass legislation that would drop a requirement in the
Senate bill passed last spring that would force millions of illegal immigrants
currently living in the United States to pack up and head back across the border
to their homeland before they could become eligible to apply for U.S.
citizenship.

Some of the earlier immigration reform proposals even include a court challenge
of automatic citizenship to children born to illegal immigrants in the United
States, a rebuke to the 14th Amendment that says if you are born here, you are
an American, period. It's an idea that is just pretty outrageous on the face of
it and is likely dead on arrival if it resurfaces in any new immigration reform
legislation.

But perhaps the stupidest idea in legislation passed in 2006 that will hopefully
get the boot is the bizarre plan to erect a fence along some 700 miles of the
U.S.-Mexican border. No funds have been authorized yet to accomplish this silly
endeavor, but there is a better use of taxpayer money to address the problem of
millions of men, women and children streaming into our country illegally every
year from Mexico. Don't build a fence. Build a new Ellis Island on the border.

It is estimated that about 100 million Americans living in the United States
today - a third of our population - descend from the millions and millions of
immigrants who passed through Ellis Island in New York harbor between the 1890s
and 1920s. So, there is a mighty good chance that includes you.

Hispanic peoples soon will represent the largest minority group in America and
one day even may stand in the majority. English-only laws aside, it probably
wouldn't be a bad idea to encourage your children to learn Spanish while they
also master our native tongue. They may find it as useful as English in their
business and personal lives in the America of 2020. Of course, every immigrant
in the U.S. should learn English, too, and most are keenly aware of the many
advantages of doing so, just as the millions of brave souls who passed through
Ellis Island did.

One should shudder to think what our country and economy would be like today if
a fence had been erected at Ellis Island, preventing all those immigrants
searching for a free and better life from coming to America. They are the
generations of new Americans who built our bridges and skyscrapers, forged our
steel, made our automobiles, paved our roads, stitched our textiles, shoes and
piece goods, fought our wars and paid the taxes that helped support our
disadvantaged and senior citizens for decades.

What would America look like today without the tens of millions of their progeny
who got an education and became doctors, lawyers, nurses, architects,
scientists, inventors, and started all the businesses that resulted in the
world's most powerful culture and economy?

So instead of building a fence along the border, how about we build a new Ellis
Island there to welcome this new generation of Americans, who indeed, are
already really Americans, for they are our American cousins.

Here in this new Ellis Island, they would come, pass through the gates legally,
and we would help them join our country as responsible citizens, laying the
foundation for a better America for generations to come.

---

Robert Batterson teaches at Washington University.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  GOING GLOBAL Commentary

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A reported 5,000 people waved palm leaves, flags  and signs to show
their support of comprehensive immigration reform at a rally in Kiener Plaza on
Palm Sunday, April 9. Odell Mitchell Jr..| Post-Dispatch    PHOTO - Robert
Batterson

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration law still on hold in Valley Park

BYLINE: By William C. Lhotka ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 187 words


A judge has set aside March 1 and 2 to hear testimony and arguments over the
validity of the ordinance in Valley Park intended to combat illegal immigrants.

Pending the outcome of the case, St. Louis County Circuit Judge Barbara Wallace
left in effect Wednesday her temporary order barring the city from enforcing the
ordinance.

The original ordinance, enacted in July, declares English to be the official
language of the city and says landlords could face a $500 fine for renting to
illegal immigrants. And businesses that hire illegal immigrants could be denied
business permits and city contracts.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other organizations have challenged the
ordinance as unconstitutional. Attorneys for the groups say the local law is too
vague, would promote racial profiling and housing discrimination and harm
businesses.

The case has bounced back and forth from Wallace's court to federal court.
Besides setting the trial dates, Wallace approved a motion Wednesday allowing
Kris Kobach, a professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City Law
School, to enter the case as an attorney for the city.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bill would block illegal immigrants in hiring, renting

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


A bipartisan bill filed Tuesday would set up a new state agency to discourage
businesses from hiring illegal immigrants or renting housing to them.

The main sponsor, Sen. Chris Koster, R-Harrisonville, said the plan was designed
to avoid legal pitfalls that have tied up an anti-immigration ordinance passed
by the city of Valley Park.

Under the bill, the state would establish a Division of Immigration Compliance
under Secretary of State Robin Carnahan.

Koster said that office was the logical enforcer because the secretary of state
oversees business registrations and licenses, which could be pulled if
violations occurred.

A spokeswoman for Carnahan said she had not seen the bill and needed time to
review it.

Under Koster's bill, businesses would be required to use a federal electronic
system to check the immigration status of new employees. Landlords would be
barred from renting to illegal immigrants.

Upon receiving a complaint, the state would check the person's immigration
status and advise the employer or landlord of the results. A business could lose
its license if it did not fire or evict an illegal immigrant. An appeals process
would be provided.

Koster said some industries, such as home contractors and meat processors, are
increasingly relying on illegal workers, undercutting wages paid to lawful
citizens. He said the bill would "allow labor unions to police their
competitors" by filing complaints.

Sen. Tim Green, D-Spanish Lake, co-sponsors the bill. Green is president of the
Missouri Building and Construction Trades Council.

Koster, who is expected to seek the Republican nomination for attorney general
next year, said he did not know how much the new agency would cost taxpayers. He
estimated that five clerical employees could handle the workload. He said no
investigators would be needed because the state would simply use federal
databases.

Koster said he had help drafting the plan from several constitutional lawyers,
including Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri in Kansas
City. Kobach served as chief adviser on immigration law to former Attorney
General John Ashcroft.

The bill is SB348.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Misplaced crackdowns

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 552 words


On the banks of the Meramec River, the civic leaders of Valley Park, undaunted
that a judge has twice blocked their efforts to crack down on illegal
immigrants, this week again passed ordinances to punish landlords and businesses
that rent or offer jobs to illegal immigrants.

On the banks of the Missouri River in Jefferson City, the Legislature is
considering enacting similar rental and hiring crackdowns statewide.

On the banks of the Potomac River in Washington, the Justice Department is about
to begin enforcing a new law that will require federal authorities to collect
DNA samples from anyone arrested on federal criminal charges, plus all illegal
immigrants detained for whatever reason.

Elsewhere around the country, agents of the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement
agency have stepped up raids against immigrants with criminal records or pending
deportation orders. In the process, anyone who can't prove he's here legally is
being swept up.

But in Congress - the one place where a thorough, effective and compassionate
immigration policy can be developed - the issue languishes. And unless Congress
moves quickly on immigration reform, the issue is likely to be caught up in
presidential politics.

Immigration reform is one issue on which President George W. Bush has more in
common with Congress' new Democratic leadership than with his conservative
political base. The president's plan would give the nation's 12 million illegal
aliens a chance to gain legal status as "guest workers" and, eventually, rights
as citizens. Coupled with increased funding for border security and more
enforcement efforts against firms hiring illegal workers, the president's plan
offers a solid framework for reform.

But the longer Congress dithers, the more likely it is that political concerns -
Democrats not wanting to give the president a victory, Republicans not wanting
to antagonize their base - will interfere.

The issue should be put on a fast track. Delays only encourage states and local
jurisdictions to take matters in their own hands. As in Valley Park, that only
results in solutions of dubious legality that can't survive court challenges.

Doing it piecemeal only results in sweeping, unfair legislation - including the
DNA-collection provision that was quietly slipped into last year's renewal of
the Violence Against Women Act. Collecting DNA samples from persons charged with
federal crimes and adding those samples to a national database is a good idea.
It could help identify criminals in old cases as well as new, particularly rape
cases where perpetrators leave DNA evidence.

But the bill also requires federal authorities to collect DNA samples from alien
detainees guilty of only civil offenses. Although casting the net that wide may
help catch an occasional criminal, it unfairly stereotypes all immigrants as
potential criminals. And, unlike fingerprints, DNA can be used for more than
simple identification purposes. The entire genetic structure of tens of
thousands of innocent people who never have been charged with crimes will wind
up in government databases, a very scary proposition.

By abdicating its responsibility for a national immigration policy, Congress has
left the door open for a lot of lousy temporary solutions. Immigration reform is
Congress' job. Congress should get on with it.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | IMMIGRATION OPINION

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (IMMIGRATION) JON KRAUSE | NEWSART

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 447 words


MISSOURI

Jefferson City

Suspected illegal immigrants found

Gov. Matt Blunt terminated a state contract with a janitorial company Tuesday
after law enforcement officials found dozens of suspected illegal immigrants
working in state buildings within a stone's throw of the Capitol.

At least 25 employees of Sam's Janitorial Services were detained by federal
immigration officials Tuesday evening following the two-month investigation.

Even as the workers were being rounded up, Blunt called a news conference in his
office to sever the janitorial contract and order an audit to make sure all
state contractors are following immigration law.

Sam's Janitorial Services, based in Oklahoma, employs about 80 workers to clean
seven buildings in Jefferson City, one in Columbia and one in Kansas City. Those
include the offices used by the employees of the secretary of state, state
auditor, attorney general and education and social service departments.

ILLINOIS

St. Clair County

Village sets rules for massage parlors

SWANSEA - The Village Board has enacted an ordinance to make it easier to
enforce prohibitions against prostitution at massage parlors.

The law prohibits the touching or fondling of the genital region of patrons. In
addition, patrons must have their genital regions covered at all times,
according to the ordinance amendment. The law stems from a sting by the St.
Clair County Sheriff's Department on Nov. 2.

Elsewhere

Budget to include health care plan

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. - In what is likely to be the starting bell for a struggle
over the future of health care in Illinois, Gov. Rod Blagojevich today will call
for the state to provide insurance coverage to hundreds of thousands of
uninsured adults by adding two new taxes on businesses.

In the first budget address of his second term, Blagojevich also will revive his
controversial plan to lease the state lottery to private investors, proposing to
use the income to alleviate the state's crushing pension debt. The speech in
Springfield also will call for $1.5 billion in new education funding, sources
say.

Official insists she has no state driver

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. - Department of Human Services Secretary Carol Adams insisted
again Tuesday she does not have a personal driver. She also reassigned her chief
of staff.

Adams said her special assistant, Eugene Davis, drives her but also evaluates
agency needs and responds to community and legislative concerns.

A lawsuit filed by Carlos Estes, a former assistant to Adams' chief of staff,
Teyonda Wertz, claims Estes was fired after refusing Wertz's sexual advances. A
deposition in the case contends Estes and Davis essentially were drivers who
took Wertz and Adams from place to place.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal-immigrant raids can leave children behind

BYLINE: By Monica Rhor THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


They are the hidden side of the government's stepped-up efforts to track down
and deport illegal immigrants: Toddlers stranded at day-care centers or handed
over to ill-equipped relatives. Siblings suddenly left in charge of younger
brothers and sisters.

When illegal-immigrant parents are swept up in raids on homes and workplaces,
the children are sometimes left behind - a complication that underscores the
difficulty in enforcing immigration laws against people who have put down roots
and begun raising families in the United States.

Three million American-born children have at least one parent who is an illegal
immigrant; one in 10 American families has mixed immigration status, meaning at
least one member is an immigrant here illegally, according to the Pew Center for
Hispanic Research and the office of U.S. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y.

Children born in the United States are automatically American citizens and are
not subject to deportation.

This past week in Massachusetts, most of the 361 workers picked up in a raid at
a leather-goods factory in New Bedford that made vests and backpacks for the
U.S. military were women with children, setting off what Democratic Gov. Deval
Patrick called a "humanitarian crisis."

Community activists scrambled to locate the children, offer infant-care tips to
fathers unfamiliar with warming formula and changing diapers, and gather
donations of baby supplies. One baby who was breast-feeding had to be
hospitalized for dehydration because her mother remained in detention,
authorities said.

Child-care arrangements had to be made for at least 35 youngsters.

Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement division released at
least 60 of the workers who were sole caregivers to children, but more than 200
were sent to detention centers in Texas and New Mexico.

"What is going to happen to the children? These children are American-born,"
said Helena Marques, executive director of the Immigrant Assistance Center in
New Bedford. "There are hundreds of children out there without their moms, in
tremendous need. These babies have become the victims of a problem that
legislators can't seem to fix."

Immigration agency officials defended their handling of the raid, saying the
agency had made arrangements in advance with social service agencies to care for
the children. Spokesman Marc Raimondi said all immigrants arrested by the agency
were interviewed to determine whether they were the sole parents of their
children. The agency then can grant humanitarian releases, as it did in the 60
cases in Massachusetts.

As for the parents' ultimate fate, being a single parent or the family
breadwinner offers no special protection against deportation, said another
immigration agency spokesman, Mike Keegan.

"They made a decision to come into the country illegally," he said. "It's hard
to believe that someone would not know of the consequences when they get
caught."

U.S. Rep. William Delahunt, D-Mass., said Sunday that there would be a
congressional investigation into the raid.

Under pressure to crack down on illegal immigrants, the immigration agency has
intensified enforcement activity around the country. But the raids have led to a
growing outcry from immigrant advocates and activists who say thousands of
families are being split apart.

After nearly 1,300 people were arrested in December in raids at Swift & Co.
meatpacking plants in Texas, Colorado, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska and Utah,
activists reported hearing of scores of children left on their own. Swift
donated $300,000 to United Way agencies to help the families affected.

Serrano, the New York congressman, is sponsoring a bill now before the House
Judiciary Committee that would give immigration judges more discretion in
weighing the effect on families when deporting illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  The impact on families NATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Maria Escotto and her 4-month-old daughter, Amy Nicole Escotto, share a
moment Friday at Our Lady of Guadalupe Church in New Bedford, Mass., as Escotto
waits to find out whether she will receive a paycheck. She was among 361 people
detained Tuesday in an immigration raid on a leather-goods factory. Escotto was
released Wednesday pending immigration proceedings, as she had no one else to
care for her daughter.  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 16, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

METRO DIGEST NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 840 words


MISSOURI

St. Louis County

New suit over illegal immigrant laws

VALLEY PARK - The city's anti-illegal immigration ordinances violate the U.S.
Constitution and the federal Fair Housing Act, claims a new lawsuit filed
against the city this week.

The suit, filed in St. Louis County, follows a circuit court judge's ruling that
Valley Park's early attempts at enacting ordinances to penalize landlords and
businesses that rent to and hire illegal aliens clash with state law.

The city enacted its first ordinance targeting illegal immigrants in July and
passed a revised version in September.

The new suit was filed Wednesday by the American Civil Liberties Union of
Eastern Missouri on behalf of a landlord. It addresses the city's newest
ordinances targeting illegal immigrants. City leaders had hoped the latest
attempts at drafting anti-illegal immigrant laws would be more likely to survive
legal challenges.

Lemay road deal awaits Bush's pen

A property switch to enable construction of a new four-lane road in Lemay -
which backers say will help emergency personnel and create access to a new
casino - now awaits the signature of President George W. Bush.

The bill, sponsored by Rep. Russ Carnahan, D-St. Louis, passed the House last
month and the Senate late Tuesday night by unanimous consent. It shifts
responsibility for 0.3 acres of land needed for the project to St. Louis County
from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The bill also makes the county government, not FEMA, liable for any future flood
damage that the project causes. The land - which sits in a flood plain - will be
ineligible for any federal disaster assistance.

Pinnacle Entertainment Corp., the company building the new casino in Lemay, will
finance the $20 million project.

Council seeks property tax hike

KIRKWOOD - The City Council will ask voters on June 5 to approve a property tax
rate increase of 34 cents per $100 of assessed valuation for emergency services.

The tax would help fund firefighting, emergency medical services, police and
other government operations. The council decided to seek the increase at a
meeting Thursday night.

The council also gave final approval to an operating budget of $44,724,310 and a
special business district budget of $302,500.

Andrew Freundlich requested a special use permit at Station Plaza for a
restaurant to be named PoPtions, which would offer food items made from gourmet
popcorn. Final approval by the council is expected April 5.

Yard-waste pickup fee is eliminated

MARYLAND HEIGHTS - Owners of single-family homes will not have to pay extra for
yard-waste collection anymore in Maryland Heights.

The City Council voted Thursday to pick up the tab. About a third of the city's
7,500 homeowners now pay for the removal at approximately $120 a year.

"We are being responsive to our constituents. These are the services that our
residents asked us to provide," said Maryland Heights Mayor Mike Moeller.

Citywide pickups will occur on Wednesdays starting May 1, and yard waste must be
placed in disposable paper bags or clearly marked trash containers. "They should
be distinguishable with a sign, magic marker or something so it can't be
mistaken," said Bryan Pearl, the city's public works director.

ILLINOIS

St. Clair County

School wants barrier along roadway

The Shiloh School District 85 board on Thursday night voted to spend up to
$2,000 on a temporary barrier between the street and cafeteria wall at Shiloh
Elementary School - the wall that an elderly driver's car ripped through on Jan.
29, killing one student and injuring two others.

The board is looking into erecting a permanent barrier of concrete posts, which
could cost anywhere from $75,000 to $300,000. The district is asking the village
of Shiloh to share the cost.

The temporary barrier was suggested by parent Laura Forster-Reuther.

The crash took the life of 8-year-old Ryan Wesling of Shiloh, and two
second-graders were injured.

Driver Grace Keim, 84, has not been charged with a crime. Illinois State Police
and Shiloh police say the investigation is ongoing; at the time of the accident,
officials had said the review would take between two and four weeks.

Keim's car tore a hole about six feet wide in the lunchroom wall, which was
constructed of drywall and stucco in 1999. There was no barrier between the road
and school building.

Elsewhere

State won't push case on Illiniwek

CHAMPAIGN, ill. - The state attorney general's office plans no further action on
a request by a state senator to determine whether the University of Illinois
broke any laws when it retired its mascot, Chief Illiniwek.

Sen. Bill Brady, R-Bloomington, asked Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan on
March 2 whether the university's Board of Trustees violated the state Open
Meetings Act when it retired the 81-year-old American Indian mascot last month
without a vote or meeting.

Trustees voted Tuesday to ratify the earlier decision.

"The Board of Trustees appears to have addressed the need for an open, public
discussion," Robyn Ziegler, a spokeswoman for Madigan's office, said this week.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

METRO DIGEST NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 841 words


MISSOURI

St. Louis County

Anti-illegal immigration law challenge

VALLEY PARK - The city's anti-illegal immigration ordinances violate the U. S.
Constitution and the federal Fair Housing Act, claims a new lawsuit filed
against the city this week.

The suit, filed in St. Louis County, follows a circuit court judge's ruling that
Valley Park's early attempts at enacting ordinances to penalize landlords and
businesses that rent to and hire illegal aliens clash with state law.

The city enacted its first ordinance targeting illegal immigrants in July and
passed a revised version in September.

The new suit was filed Wednesday by the ACLU of Eastern Missouri on behalf of a
landlord. It addresses the city's newest ordinances targeting illegal
immigrants. City leaders had hoped the latest attempts at drafting anti-illegal
immigrant laws would be more likely to survive legal challenges.

Lemay road deal awaits Bush's pen

A property switch to enable construction of a new four-lane road in Lemay -
which backers say will help emergency personnel and create access to a new
casino - now awaits the signature of President George W. Bush.

The bill, sponsored by Rep. Russ Carnahan, D-St. Louis, passed the House last
month and the Senate late Tuesday night by unanimous consent. It shifts
responsibility for 0.3 acres of land needed for the project to St. Louis County
from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The bill also makes the county government, not FEMA, liable for any future flood
damage that the project causes. The land - which sits in a flood plain - will be
ineligible for any federal disaster assistance.

Pinnacle Entertainment Corp., the company building the new casino in Lemay, will
finance the $20 million project.

St. Charles County

Lease gives Wentzville more office space

WENTZVILLE - The Board of Aldermen this week approved a lease for space in the
old Commerce Bank building.

The agreement is for $300 a month, according to the lease. The extra space would
be used for the city finance and information technology departments. The move
would make space available at City Hall for more staff.

In mid-October, Commerce Bank moved out of the old building on West Pearce
Boulevard and into its new location closer to the intersection of Wentzville
Parkway.

Historic preservation board takes shape

County Executive Steve Ehlmann's appointments to the new county advisory board
on historic preservation were approved this week by the County Council.

Board members are Jim Rhodes, a history and genealogy librarian at the St.
Charles City-County Library District; Anita Mallinckrodt, a retired professor;
Nancy Baker, a member of the county parks board; Joe Harl, part owner of the
Archaeological Research Center of St. Louis; Lucille Wiechens, who has been
active in local historical and genealogical groups; Judy Sigmund, an author and
a retired teacher and principal; Daniel Brown, a former Francis Howell schools
superintendent and author of two books on county history; Robert Sandfort, past
president of the county Historical Society board; and John Walendy, vice
president of the St. Charles Parks and Recreation Board.

Democratic Councilwoman Cheryl Hibbeler, of District 1, will be the liaison to
the new board.

ILLINOIS

St. Clair County

School wants barrier along roadway

The Shiloh School District 85 board on Thursday night voted to spend up to
$2,000 on a temporary barrier between the street and cafeteria wall at Shiloh
Elementary School - the wall that an elderly driver's car ripped through on Jan.
29, killing one student and injuring two others.

The board is looking into erecting a permanent barrier of concrete posts, which
could cost anywhere from $75,000 to $300,000. The district is asking the village
of Shiloh to share the cost.

The temporary barrier was suggested by parent Laura Forster-Reuther.

The crash took the life of 8-year-old Ryan Wesling of Shiloh, and two
second-graders were injured.

Driver Grace Keim, 84, has not been charged with a crime. Illinois State Police
and Shiloh police say the investigation is ongoing; at the time of the accident,
officials had said the review would take between two and four weeks.

Keim's car tore a hole about six feet wide in the lunchroom wall, which was
constructed of drywall and stucco in 1999. There was no barrier between the road
and school building.

Elsewhere

State won't push case on Illiniwek

CHAMPAIGN, ill. - The state attorney general's office plans no further action on
a request by a state senator to determine whether the University of Illinois
broke any laws when it retired its mascot, Chief Illiniwek.

Sen. Bill Brady, R-Bloomington, asked Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan on
March 2 whether the university's Board of Trustees violated the state Open
Meetings Act when it retired the 81-year-old American Indian mascot last month
without a vote or meeting.

Trustees voted Tuesday to ratify the earlier decision.

"The Board of Trustees appears to have addressed the need for an open, public
discussion," Robyn Ziegler, a spokeswoman for Madigan's office, said this week.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Churches to shelter illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Peter Prengaman THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Churches in five U.S. cities plan to protect illegal immigrants from
deportation, offering their buildings as sanctuary if need be, as they pressure
lawmakers to create a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants.

This month, a Catholic church in Los Angeles and a Lutheran church in North
Hollywood each intend to shelter one person, and churches in other cities may do
so in coming months as part of the "New Sanctuary Movement."

"We want to put a human face to very complex immigration laws and awaken the
consciousness of the human spirit," said the Rev. Richard Estrada of Our Lady
Queen of Angels Catholic Church in Los Angeles, where one illegal immigrant will
live.

Organizers don't believe immigration agents will make arrests inside the
churches.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has not tried to arrest Elvira
Arellano, an illegal immigrant who has lived at a Methodist church in Chicago
since August. Her son is a U.S. citizen.

Agency spokeswoman Virginia Kice noted agents had the authority to arrest anyone
violating immigration law.

Anti-illegal-immigration groups called the sanctuary effort misguided.

The faith groups "don't seem to realize that they are being charitable with
someone else's resources, and that's not charity," said Ira Mehlman of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors limits on immigration.

"We are talking about illegal immigrants taking someone else's job, filling up
the classroom of someone else's child," he said.

The sanctuary effort is loosely based on a movement in the 1980s, when churches
harbored Central American refugees fleeing wars in their home countries.
Organizers of the current movement include members of the Jewish, Muslim,
Catholic and other faiths.

Participating churches in San Diego, Seattle, Chicago and New York won't
initially house illegal immigrants. Instead, leaders will provide legal counsel,
accompany them to court hearings and prepare plans to house them in churches if
authorities try to deport them.

The first to receive refuge in Los Angeles will be a single father from Mexico
who has two children who are U.S. citizens, said the Rev. Alexia Salvatierra,
executive director of Clergy and Laity United for Economic Justice, an
interfaith association spearheading the national plans.

---

STLtoday.com/current Should churches provide sanctuary for illegal immigrants?
Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - At a news conference Wednesday, Elvira Arellano, an illegal immigrant
living at a church in Chicago, speaks by phone to an immigrant at a Los Angeles
church. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

GOP split on immigration bill COMPROMISE o Increase border security, temporary
worker program. BACKLASH o Agreement is a sellout, conservative figures say.

BYLINE: By Michael Abramowitz WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush's embrace of compromise immigration legislation has
split the Republican Party, as several GOP presidential candidates quickly came
out against the deal and the conservative base reacted with fury.

Figures on the right, including conservative talk radio hosts, analysts at the
Heritage Foundation and National Review columnists, derided the agreement as a
sellout of conservative principles. GOP presidential candidates criticized the
plan as a form of amnesty - a characterization rejected by the White House.

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who last year said similar efforts for a
comprehensive immigration bill were "reasonable," called the deal reached this
week the "wrong approach" to the problem. "Any legislation that allows illegal
immigrants to stay in the country indefinitely, as the new 'Z-Visa' does, is a
form of amnesty," he said.

White House officials said they fully anticipated the conservative reaction and
acknowledge they face a big challenge in educating even their strongest
supporters about a bill that would provide increased border security, create a
temporary worker program and allow many of the 12 million illegal immigrants a
chance to earn a green card if they pay fines and return first to their country
of origin.

The Senate will debate the measure next week, with the House expected to take up
the issue sometime this summer.

Administration officials said they have addressed many of the concerns
conservatives had with previous immigration legislation: Under the proposal, for
instance, the provisions making it possible for illegal immigrants to stay in
the United States would only go into effect after stringent new border control
provisions are implemented.

Presidential aspirant Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., backs the bill. In the past,
former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has been an outspoken immigration
advocate. But a statement from his communications director offered no
endorsement of the new bill and stressed the security implications of
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Senators agree to debate bill on immigration Although the measure has advanced,
it faces broad opposition and likely will be altered dramatically.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Weisman Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted Monday night to move forward on an overhaul of immigration
laws, but even proponents of the delicate compromise proposal conceded that the
furor over the deal was surpassing their expectations and endangering the plan.

The 69-23 vote masked deep troubles from the right flank of the Senate, as well
as from the left. Several conservatives - and some liberals - made it clear that
they cast a vote to proceed only to fundamentally change the proposed
legislation in the coming days.

With dozens of amendments planned, traps being laid by opponents could upset the
fragile coalition that drafted the measure. What's more, Senate leaders gave up
hope Monday night that they could pass the bill this week, ensuring it will be
left hanging over a weeklong Memorial Day recess. That will allow the opposition
to gather strength before a final vote can be scheduled next month.

Senate leadership aides said Monday that the proposal could probably muster the
support of about 30 Republicans and 30 Democrats - just enough to beat a
filibuster, which was all but promised Monday by conservatives.

The bill would grant legal status to virtually all the estimated 12 million
undocumented workers in the country, create a temporary-worker program, tighten
border controls, crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants, and create
a point system for future immigration to de-emphasize family ties in favor of
educational attainment and work skills.

Supporters had expected opposition from both ends of the political spectrum. But
they conceded they were taken aback by the furious response over the weekend,
especially from conservatives, who declared that the legislation is nothing
short of amnesty for lawbreakers.

Worse still, business groups expected to provide muscle to push the bill have
instead voiced opposition. They have called the temporary worker program
impractical. They have also protested a provision that would force employers to
verify the legal status of every worker in the country, and have said a point
system for permanent-residence visas, or green cards, would deprive them of the
ability to bring in foreign workers with distinct skills they need.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has signaled that any immigration bill
clearing the chamber this summer is likely to look considerably different from a
Senate bill designed to attract Republican votes.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Will lawmakers be able to agree on an immigration bill?
What do you think it should say? Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Advocates for illegal migrants worry about impact of fines, fees They fear
low-wage workers would turn to loan sharks for money to obtain legal status in
the U.S. under pending legislation.

BYLINE: By Giovanna Dell'Orto The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Illegal immigrants could fall prey to loan sharks and other unscrupulous lenders
if they have to pay $5,000 in fines and thousands more in fees and back taxes as
required under the immigration reform measure now before Congress, some
advocates say.

Many immigrants work low-wage jobs and have virtually no assets. As a result,
they often have poor credit and are forced to borrow on the street.

"We're real concerned about the potential for fraud," said Beatriz Ibarra, who
studies Hispanic finances for the National Council of La Raza, the nation's
largest Hispanic advocacy group and a tepid supporter of the draft legislation.
"They'll find a way to pay, but how?"

It is not exactly clear how much time the immigrants would have to pay the fines
and fees to achieve legal status and eventually obtain a green card, which
confers permanent residency. But because of the backlog of green card
applications, immigrants may have up to eight years to come up with the money.

To make it across the border, many illegal immigrants pay thousands of dollars
to smugglers, who sometimes threaten them with death if they don't pay their
debts. Then, many make low wages working in agriculture, construction and the
hotel and restaurant industry. Out of that, they often send money back home to
support their families. And because they are illegal, they tend to distrust
banks.

The Pew Hispanic Center reported last spring that the average weekly earnings
for illegal immigrant men who arrived between 2000 and 2005 were around $480,
and about $100 more for those who arrived before 2000.

About half of Hispanic immigrants have no checking or savings accounts, and
those who have credit cards often pay exorbitant fees and have difficulty
managing their debt, according to a study co-authored by Ibarra.

When in need of large sums of cash for emergencies or major purchases, they tend
to turn to friends and family or loan sharks. Many immigrants go to predatory
lenders who charge as much as 300 percent interest on short-term loans.

Challenges defeated

Meanwhile, in Washington, proponents of the immigration measure beat back
challenges Thursday that could have scuttled the bill.

The Senate overwhelmingly endorsed the legalization program that also would
tighten border security and set up a strict verification program to deny jobs to
illegal immigrants.

By a 66-29 vote, senators rejected an amendment by Sen. David Vitter, R-La.,
that would have removed the chance for the nation's estimated 12 million
unlawful immigrants to live and work legally in the U.S. and eventually become
citizens.

Earlier, in a 49-48 vote, the Senate rejected a proposal by Sen. Byron Dorgan,
D-N.D., to end the temporary worker program after five years. By the same
margin, senators voted down a proposal by Sen. Norm Coleman, R-Minn., to allow
government authorities to question someone about his immigration status if they
had probable cause to suspect the person was in the U.S. illegally.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Besieged immigration reform bill stays alive But proposed amendments mean more
peril in the Senate.

BYLINE: By Lesley Clark McClatchy Newspapers Ron Harris of the Post-Dispatch
Washington Bureau contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A controversial immigration bill survived a key Senate vote Tuesday but still
could be derailed by dozens of amendments that threaten to upset the fragile
compromise.

With President George W. Bush lobbying for its passage, the Senate voted 64-35 -
four more than were needed - to reopen debate on the legislation. But final
approval was uncertain given the level of opposition to the bill, which would
harden the nation's borders and provide a chance at legal residency for millions
of undocumented immigrants. Several senators said they voted to start debate but
reserved judgment on the bill's ultimate merits.

Illinois Sens. Dick Durbin and Barack Obama, both Democrats, voted to allow for
more debate and to have the Senate consider 26 amendments to the bill.

Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill, a Democrat, voted against allowing the bill to
go forward. "I've come to the conclusion that the way this has been put together
has been more about business interests than stopping the flow of illegal
immigrants," McCaskill said.

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., voted to allow the bill to go forward
because he wants his fellow senators to publicly cast their votes on whether
they support giving U.S. citizenship to illegal immigrants, or what Bond
considers amnesty, said his spokeswoman, Shana Marchio.

Bond also believes that more debate will reveal the fundamental flaws in the
bill, Marchio said.

One sign of the challenge ahead: Debate was delayed late Tuesday as opponents
pulled a parliamentary maneuver, forcing the Senate clerk to read aloud the
entire text of 26 amendments. They relented after an hour, but their point was
made.

Tuesday's vote came after Bush renewed his call, asking the Senate to pass what
he called a "careful compromise."

Bush aides said they're optimistic about the bill's chance at clearing the
Senate this week, and Bush added that "when successful in the Senate, we'll be
reconvening to figure out how to get the bill out of the House."

"I view this as an historic opportunity for Congress to act," he told business
leaders meeting near the White House.

But the bill's prospects in the House are even hazier. House Majority Leader
Steny Hoyer of Maryland and other Democrats believe there should be immigration
legislation, but Hoyer declined Tuesday to predict when or if the House would
begin debate on a measure.

Crafted by a bipartisan group of senators and two Bush Cabinet secretaries, the
Senate bill seeks to legalize millions of undocumented immigrants, establish a
temporary guest worker program, toughen security along U.S. borders with Mexico
and Canada, and crack down on employers who hire illegal workers.

But along the way the bill has picked up vocal detractors from the right - who
consider legalization as amnesty for lawbreakers - and from some Democrats who
say the bill's emphasis on skills-based immigration could be harmful to
families. Both sides have proposed changes that could sink the legislation.

Advocacy groups Tuesday pledged renewed drives to ramp up their efforts.

"People are really worked up about this and they're willing to make the calls,"
said Caroline Espinosa, a spokeswoman with Numbers USA, which wants to cap
immigration.

Bush acknowledged Tuesday that not everyone is happy with the Senate bill.

"In a good piece of legislation like this, and a difficult piece of legislation
like this, one side doesn't get everything they want," Bush said.

One major point of contention: a bid to lure more Republican support by
requiring the head of an illegal immigrant household to leave the country to
secure a Z visa, which would allow them to stay in the country. It also would
call for deporting and permanently barring those who overstay their visas.

Negotiators on the legislation were looking to ward off an amendment by Sen. Kay
Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, that would require all undocumented work-eligible
adults to return to their home countries at least temporarily. But bill
supporters acknowledged that even the restricted "touch back" provision proposed
by the bill's negotiators was likely to turn off some Democrats.

New Jersey Democratic Sen. Bob Menendez, who voted to proceed, warned late
Tuesday that he'll peel off if the bill continued to veer "to the far right."

---

KEY IMMIGRATION PROVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS

The bipartisan immigration measure would:

oAllow illegal immigrants who were in the country as of Jan. 1 to gain a "Z
visa" if they pay fees and fines and pass a background check.

o Set up a temporary worker program that would allow up to 200,000 guest-workers
per year to enter on two-year Y visas that could be renewed twice, provided they
returned to their home countries for a year between each stint.

The Associated Press

---

Get more o STLtoday.com/links See an interactive breakdown of what is included
in the legislation and how it compares to current immigration law.

Talk o STLtoday.com/talk How would you change immigration legislation? What do
you think of what's being considered? Comment in the Talk of the Day blog.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Immigrant who followed rules faces deportation

BYLINE: BILL McCLELLAN

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 795 words


In the ongoing debate about illegal immigration, where does Roberto Castro fit
in?

He is 46 years old, and he is not taking somebody's job. Actually, he has his
own business and employs three people. What's more, he's not technically an
illegal immigrant. At least he didn't used to be. He came here from Guatemala in
1991 and applied for political asylum. During the years his case has bounced
around in the courts, he has reported every month to immigration authorities. He
has renewed his employment authorization card every year. Had he decided to slip
into the shadow world, he would be better off.

He is about to be deported.

He grew up in a small village of Cunen in the mountains of Guatemala. He is a
member of the Quiche tribe, descendants of the Mayans. He was the oldest of 10
children. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, leftist guerillas were active in
the mountains. In March 1991, there was fighting near Cunen. Refugees streamed
into the village. Soldiers came soon afterward. They shot 23 people. Castro was
ordered to help dig a mass grave. Instead, he fled. He went to Guatemala City.
Soon he received an anonymous letter accusing him of being an enemy of the
state. He then fled the country.

That is essentially the story he told immigration authorities when he was caught
crossing the border in Texas in June 1991. He said he feared for his life if he
were to be returned to Guatemala.

His case for asylum was handled by a Legal Services attorney in San Antonio. In
December 1991, the judge ruled against Castro. The judge said Castro had been in
Guatemala City for a full month and because no harm had come to him, there was
no proof that he would be in danger if he were returned to Guatemala. Castro's
attorney appealed that ruling, and Castro was allowed to remain in this country
while his appeal was pending.

With the approval of immigration authorities, he moved to St. Louis in July
1992. He came here because a man from his village had once worked here. Castro
got a job as a janitor.

He met Imelda, a woman from Mexico, at a Jehovah's Witness meeting. They
married. They had twin daughters in 1995, and they gave them American names -
Kaylee and Kelsey. The Castros bought a home in 1997.

In December 1999, eight years after his case had been appealed, the Board of
Immigration Appeals ruled against him. All three members of the board agreed
that Castro should have been granted asylum in 1991, but two argued that
conditions had changed in Guatemala and that Castro would no longer be in
danger. The chairman of the board, Paul Schmidt, dissented.

"This eight-year-old appeal is being dismissed solely on the basis of evidence
of 'changed conditions' in Guatemala that arose after the hearing," Schmidt
wrote. "The respondent has not had an opportunity to address, explain or rebut
any of this evidence. This is a denial of due process."

Castro learned of the board's decision when federal agents came to his home and
arrested him. He spent nine months in jail awaiting deportation. The attorney
who had represented him in Texas had long since left Legal Services. Castro's
wife hired Timothy Wichmer, who took the matter to federal court. A magistrate
echoed Schmidt's thoughts that due process had been denied and ordered a new
hearing.

Four more years passed.

Castro began a landscaping business. He became successful. He continued
reporting to immigration authorities. He continued renewing his employment
authorization card.

In October 2005, an immigration judge heard the case and denied Castro's request
for asylum. He said Castro failed to prove that conditions had not changed.
Wichmer appealed. In April of this year, the Board of Immigration Appeals
dismissed the appeal. Wichmer filed a petition for review with the U.S. Court of
Appeals. He also asked the court to stay, or suspend, the deportation order
until it rules on the appeal. The court denied the request for a stay.

Castro is due to report for deportation on Aug. 3.

Wichmer has asked the Immigration and Custom Enforcement division of the
Department of Homeland Security to allow Castro to stay until the Court of
Appeals hears the case and makes a ruling. Mayor Francis Slay wrote a letter on
Castro's behalf: "I believe Mr. Castro is an asset to our city and an exemplary
father and businessman. I therefore ask that he be allowed to remain in the
United States indefinitely, but at the very least until his case is completed at
the Court of Appeals."

I asked Castro what he planned to do if he has to go back to Guatemala. Will he
take his family?

"I wouldn't take my children there," he said. "I will go alone."

His daughters, of course, are U.S. citizens. If their father is deported, maybe
they'll end up on welfare. How does this fit into the debate about illegal
immigration?

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Law that targeted illegal immigration is voided by judge

BYLINE: By Michael Rubinkam the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 515 words


HAZLETON, Pa. - A federal judge struck down on Thursday Hazleton's tough
anti-illegal immigration law, ruling unconstitutional a measure that has been
copied around the country.

The city's Illegal Immigration Relief Act sought to impose fines on landlords
who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies that give
them jobs. Another measure would have required tenants to register with City
Hall and pay for a rental permit.

Based on testimony from a nine-day trial held in March, U.S. District Judge
James Munley ruled that the act was pre-empted by federal law and would violate
due process rights.

"The genius of our Constitution is that it provides rights even to those who
evoke the least sympathy from the general public," Munley wrote in a 206-page
opinion.

"Hazleton, in its zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable,
violated the rights of such people, as well as others within the community."

Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta called the decision bizarre and said he intended to
file an appeal.

"Sadly, today's decision sends the wrong message to elected officials in
Washington and elsewhere," he said outside City Hall. "We, the American people,
want our cities secured, our borders protected and our citizenship respected.
This battle is far from over."

Hazleton's act was copied by dozens of municipalities around the nation that
believe the federal government hasn't done enough to stop illegal immigration.
Munley's ruling does not affect those measures, although most of them had been
put on hold pending the outcome in Hazleton, according to the plaintiffs'
attorneys.

Barletta had pushed for the strict laws last summer after two illegal immigrants
were charged in a fatal shooting. The mayor, a Republican, argued that illegal
immigrants brought drugs, crime and gangs to the city, overwhelming police and
schools. Hazleton has about 30,000 residents.

Hispanic groups and illegal immigrants in Hazleton sued, denouncing the measures
as racist and divisive.

"It is a bittersweet victory," Anna Arias, president of the Hazleton Area Latino
Association, said Thursday. "It is sad in the sense that we should be spreading
love and unity, and not hatred and division as this has created. This has
divided the community."

Witold J. Walczak, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Pennsylvania, which represented the plaintiffs, said other cities should take
notice.

"This decision should be a blaring red stoplight for local officials thinking of
copying Hazleton's misguided and unconstitutional law," Walczak said.

But the city's attorney, Kris Kobach, denounced Munley as an activist judge who
ignored Supreme Court precedent and federal law, which he said allowed
municipalities to address the "consequences of illegal immigration."

Hispanic immigrants began settling in Hazleton, 80 miles northwest of
Philadelphia, in large numbers several years ago, lured from New York and other
cities by cheap housing, low crime and the availability of work in nearby
factories and farms.

Federal law pre-empts the Hazleton, Pa., ordinance, he rules.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Law that targeted illegal immigration is voided by judge Federal law pre-empts
the Hazleton, Pa., ordinance, he rules.

BYLINE: By Michael Rubinkam THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: HAZLETON, PA.


A federal judge struck down on Thursday Hazleton's tough anti-illegal
immigration law, ruling unconstitutional a measure that has been copied around
the country.

The city's Illegal Immigration Relief Act sought to impose fines on landlords
who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies that give
them jobs. Another measure would have required tenants to register with City
Hall and pay for a rental permit.

Based on testimony from a nine-day trial held in March, U.S. District Judge
James Munley ruled that the act was pre-empted by federal law and would violate
due process rights.

"The genius of our Constitution is that it provides rights even to those who
evoke the least sympathy from the general public," Munley wrote in a 206-page
opinion.

"Hazleton, in its zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable,
violated the rights of such people, as well as others within the community."

Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta called the decision bizarre and said he intended to
file an appeal.

"Sadly, today's decision sends the wrong message to elected officials in
Washington and elsewhere," he said outside City Hall. "We, the American people,
want our cities secured, our borders protected and our citizenship respected.
This battle is far from over."

Hazleton's act was copied by dozens of municipalities around the nation that
believe the federal government hasn't done enough to stop illegal immigration.
Munley's ruling does not affect those measures, although most of them had been
put on hold pending the outcome in Hazleton, according to the plaintiffs'
attorneys.

Barletta had pushed for the strict laws last summer after two illegal immigrants
were charged in a fatal shooting. The mayor, a Republican, argued that illegal
immigrants brought drugs, crime and gangs to the city, overwhelming police and
schools. Hazleton has about 30,000 residents.

Hispanic groups and illegal immigrants in Hazleton sued, denouncing the measures
as racist and divisive.

"It is a bittersweet victory," Anna Arias, president of the Hazleton Area Latino
Association, said Thursday. "It is sad in the sense that we should be spreading
love and unity, and not hatred and division as this has created. This has
divided the community."

Witold J. Walczak, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Pennsylvania, which represented the plaintiffs, said other cities should take
notice.

"This decision should be a blaring red stoplight for local officials thinking of
copying Hazleton's misguided and unconstitutional law," Walczak said.

But the city's attorney, Kris Kobach, denounced Munley as an activist judge who
ignored Supreme Court precedent and federal law, which he said allowed
municipalities to address the "consequences of illegal immigration."

Hispanic immigrants began settling in Hazleton, 80 miles northwest of
Philadelphia, in large numbers several years ago, lured from New York and other
cities by cheap housing, low crime and the availability of work in nearby
factories and farms.

---

VALLEY PARK IMPACT

Hazleton's tough anti-immigration law has been emulated by Valley Park. The
Board of Aldermen voted to delete parts of an ordinance that would deny
landlords occupancy permits for renting to illegal aliens, but the city still
plans on fighting a suit that challenges another ordinance targeting businesses
that hire illegal immigrants.

Both Hazleton and Valley Park hired attorney Kris Kobach, a law professor at the
Unversity of Missouri-Kansas City, to represent them. The ACLU of Eastern
Missouri is suing Valley Park in federal court.

"The claims raised in Hazleton are identical to the claims we are raising in
federal court," said ACLU attorney Anthony Rothert.

"It's almost exactly the same ordinance we are challenging."

Rothert added that the Pennsylvania decision had no direct bearing on the Valley
Park case, but that it was encouraging.

"It's a good start," he said.

- Stephen Deere of the Post-Dispatch staff

---

Get more

STLtoday.com/links Read the court's ruling.

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Should the immigration law stand? Give your view in Current
Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal immigrant will leave sanctuary for Capitol Hill

BYLINE: the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO -


An illegal immigrant who took refuge in a church a year ago to escape
deportation said Wednesday that she would leave her sanctuary to lobby Congress
for immigration reform, even if that means risking arrest.

Elvira Arellano has said she feared being separated from her son, Saul, 8, when
she asked the Aldalberto United Methodist Church for help. On Wednesday, the
anniversary of her move into the church, she announced that she planned to leave
Sept. 12 to travel to Washington.

The decision to leave the church is not a challenge to authorities to arrest
her, she said. She also said that if she was arrested, her son would stay in the
United States.

"If this government would separate me from my son, let them do it in front of
the men and women who have the responsibility to fix this broken law and uphold
the principles of human dignity," Arellano, 32, read from a prepared statement.

Arellano's defiance has drawn attention to the cases of illegal immigrants whose
children, like Saul, are U.S. citizens.

Arellano came to the United States illegally in 1997, was deported but returned.
She moved to Illinois in 2000. In 2002, Arellano was arrested and was later
convicted of working under a false Social Security number. She was to surrender
to authorities last August to be deported but instead took refuge in the church.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Arellano

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Gov. Blunt's immigration moves upset Hispanics here

BYLINE: JO MANNIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 753 words


At major Republican campaign fundraising events around town, you can usually
spot at least one member of the local Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in the crowd
- and often among the speakers.

Area Hispanics, especially those in business, long have been a targeted voting
bloc for many Republican candidates. The mutual attraction: their common views
on social and economic issues like abortion and taxes (generally against both).

That friendly backdrop helps explain why some local Hispanic leaders say they're
angry at being blindsided by Gov. Matt Blunt's directives last week targeting
illegal immigrants. Most illegals apprehended in Missouri have been Hispanic.

"We didn't get any kind of heads-up that this was coming down the pike,'' said
Jorge Riopedre, secretary and legislative affairs chairman for the Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan St. Louis.

In particular, the Hispanic chamber - and its larger counterpart in Kansas City
- is upset by Blunt's order that the Highway Patrol verify the immigration
status of anyone arrested and headed for jail.

In terse statements, both chambers said they feared the directive will invite
"racial profiling.''

Riopedre contended that law enforcement agencies may single out
"Hispanic-looking'' people, and take them directly to an immigration judge. He
predicted that legal immigrants or citizens could find themselves unfairly
forced to prove their status.

"This is not about illegal immigration. It's about due process,'' Riopedre said.

Blunt spokeswoman Jessica Robinson played down such concerns. "The only people
who will be affected will be those who have broken the law,'' Robinson said.

The governor has no plans to downplay his campaign. On Wednesday night, Blunt
was on cable TV, as a guest on CNN's highly rated "Lou Dobbs Tonight." Blunt
referred to his critics as "fringe elements."

Blunt's focus on illegal immigration is unquestionably popular among the GOP's
conservative base. But Riopedre warns that it could cost the governor votes next
year from Missouri Hispanic voters who might otherwise have preferred his
message.

How many is unclear. Hispanics make up only about 3 percent of Missouri's legal
population, far smaller than the percentage nationwide.

The political touchiness of the topic is evident in the response of Blunt's
likely Democratic opponent, Attorney General Jay Nixon. "No one should be
singled out because of their race or ethnicity,'' a Nixon spokesman said. "But
it's appropriate to check someone's status at the point of incarceration.''

The state Democratic Party points to $40,000 in campaign contributions that
Blunt received from Gundaker Commercial Group, and other businesses at the same
address. Gundaker was cited last year for hiring illegal immigrants.

Bosnian clout is growing

Both major parties also are wooing the region's booming Bosnian community, the
largest outside of Bosnia.

Secretary of State Robin Carnahan, a Democrat, made a point of being at Lambert
Field last week to welcome Zeljko Komsic, president of Bosnia-Herzegovina, at
the start of his four-day visit.

Ibrahim Vajovic, president of the United Bosnian Association in St. Louis, on
Wednesday praised a number of politicians in both parties - including Carnahan,
Blunt, St. Louis County Executive Charley Dooley and St. Louis Mayor Francis
Slay - for their attention to Bosnian residents and their concerns.

For politicians, the stakes include the skyrocketing number of Bosnian votes.
Carnahan said that Bosnians have made up most of the new citizens sworn in at
local naturalization ceremonies she's attended this year.

Nonpartisan voting-rights groups have been on hand to distribute
voter-registration cards.

COOK, FARMER ENDORSE DONNELLY

Gender also matters. State Rep. Margaret Donnelly, D-Richmond Heights, is so far
the sole woman running for Missouri attorney general. Today, she's slated to
roll out endorsements from four of the region's best-known women politicians.

They are former Secretary of State Bekki Cook, former state Treasurer Nancy
Farmer, former state Democratic Party chair May Scheve Reardon and former St.
Louis Circuit Attorney Dee Joyce Hayes.

Cook and Hayes both lauded Donnelly's experience in law and government.

In a crowded field of candidates, it's often the sole woman or man, the only
white or black who has had an edge at the polls.

Farmer can attest to that during her own three-way Democratic primary for
treasurer in 2000. She won, even though her two male rivals spent more.

---

More political news: stltoday.com/politicalfix

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2007



CORRECTION: Jo Mannies' column in Thursday's Metro section misstated the nature
of the controversy about Gundaker Commercial Group and illegal immigration.
Gundaker has not been legally cited for hiring illegal immigrants. The group was
among the investors in an O'Fallon project where illegal immigrants were found.
Officials, unions and a state agency initially criticized Gundaker, which later
took over the project and ousted the illegal workers.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Deputies might join effort COUNCIL VOTE: County agrees to seek special training.
TIMETABLE: Deputies could be trained in six to nine months.

BYLINE: By Tim Bryant ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES


The St. Charles County Council voted unanimously Monday night to take the first
step toward a partnership with federal authorities to combat illegal
immigration.

If implemented, some sheriff's deputies would be trained to investigate illegal
immigration. The 6-0 vote was in response to the request last month by Gov. Matt
Blunt that local law enforcement agencies reach cooperative agreements with
federal immigration authorities.

Sheriff Tom Neer told council members that his deputies currently lack the
authority to question a criminal suspect about his immigration status.

"If we suspect he's an illegal alien, we can't even take him to jail," Neer
said.

County Executive Steve Ehlmann said county officials have been meeting for weeks
to see how they might join with federal immigration and customs officials to
join the effort against illegal immigration.

During a visit Aug. 28 to O'Fallon, where two construction projects allegedly
used illegal immigrant workers, Blunt said he had told the Highway Patrol and
two other state agencies to work with federal authorities to allow state
officers to get special training and directly investigate federal immigration
violations.

Ehlmann said the resolution the County Council approved was in response to
Blunt's encouragement.

"We're just coming to you asking you to bless this and allow us to proceed,"
Ehlmann said.

If sheriff's deputies are allowed to join the program, they would act as
immigration law investigators similar to the way in which many local officers
trained to join federal drug task forces, officials said. County Counselor Joann
Leykam said sheriff's deputies might be ready to join the immigration effort in
six to nine months.

PAGE EXTENSION

In other business, the council approved a property purchase related to the Page
Avenue extension. The measure is meant to preserve right of way for what
transportation officials have identified for the final phase of the Page
extension.

Cottleville Holdings LLC, led by homebuilder Jeff Kolb, owns the 117-acre tract.
The county will pay about $3 million for the property. The Missouri Department
of Transportation eventually will reimburse the county for the purchase,
scheduled to be completed in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION BATTLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Immigration case nets 1-year term

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


One of three brothers charged with bringing in illegal immigrants to staff their
roofing business was sentenced Wednesday to a year in federal prison.

Jeronimo Gutierrez was sentenced Wednesday by U.S. District Judge Richard
Webber. Jenaro and Juan Gutierrez, who face similar punishment, are scheduled to
be sentenced next week.

All three brothers have pleaded guilty to immigration-related charges that
include harboring, transporting or employing illegal aliens.

The men paid smugglers to bring in six to 24 Mexican workers who were recruited
by their mother to work for their company, Golden Roofing LLC, court documents
show.

Two of the workers told investigators of being brought across the Rio Grande in
inflatable boats, driven to Austin, Texas, then picked up by the Gutierrez
family. Smugglers were paid $4,000 per worker, and the workers then had to work
off that debt, prosecutors have said.

A fourth brother, Armando, named in court documents, has not been charged.
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Ware would not comment about that aspect of the
case.

Jeronimo Gutierrez's attorney, Raymond Bolourtchi, said that his client did not
have any supervisory role and never transported any of the workers from the
border area. He also said interviews with witnesses did not substantiate
prosecutors' allegations that the workers had been beaten or kept against their
will.

Armando and Jeronimo Gutierrez hail from Berkeley, and Jenaro and Juan lived in
Edmundson in St. Louis County, documents say.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Missouri leads in training local officers for immigration duties

BYLINE: By Chris Blank The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Although Missouri is not a national hotbed for illegal immigration, the state is
taking the lead in training local law officers on how to help federal
immigration authorities.

The training includes tips for working with Immigration and Customs Enforcement
and information about specific programs, such as allowing local police to be
deputized to enforce federal immigration law or helping identify illegal
immigrants in county jails and state prisons.

A training seminar Thursday in Jefferson City was the third of nine regional
sessions planned in Missouri. A spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said Missouri is the first state to hold multiple immigration
training sessions for local law enforcement officers.

Tim O'Sullivan, the assistant special agent in charge for ICE's Chicago field
office, said there was no particular reason that the training began in a
Midwestern state with a relatively small illegal immigrant population.

"It had to start somewhere, and Missouri is as good of a place as any,"
O'Sullivan said.

The Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center estimates from U.S. Census data that
35,000 to 65,000 illegal immigrants live in Missouri - less than 1 percent of
the 12 million people estimated to be in the United States illegally.

But illegal immigration has become a big political issue in state politics. More
than a half-dozen elected officials have proposed, floated or filed measures
designed to crack down on illegal immigrants and those who employ them.

Earlier this week, five Catholic bishops criticized the tone of the debate in
Missouri, accusing politicians of attempting to "vie to see who can be tougher
on illegal immigrants."

Gov. Matt Blunt has proposed several of the ideas, including ordering the
Missouri Highway Patrol to check the immigration status of everyone it arrests
and having the patrol send some troopers for training to enforce federal
immigration laws.

"Although we welcome legal immigrants with an open heart, we reserve a firm hand
for those who are here to break our laws," he said. Blunt has said the patrol
has turned over to federal immigration authorities 138 illegal immigrants since
it began checking immigration status last year.

Nationwide, more than 60 municipal, county and state police departments have
requested the federal training. The Highway Patrol plans to send 25 troopers to
be deputized this year.

Patrol Superintendent Col. James Keathley said the goal is to have the police
trained by April. He said that would be a big help because there are often
delays in waiting for immigration officials to arrive from Kansas City, St.
Louis or Springfield.

Lawmakers for at least the last three sessions have considered bills that would
explicitly allow that to happen, but none have passed.

A spokeswoman for Blunt says the authority to get the training instead comes
from a separate bill approved last year that among its provisions allows
"employees of the patrol to carry out any public safety duty or service
authorized or appropriated by the General Assembly."

Spokeswoman Jessica Robinson said among the governor's recommendations for next
year's budget is $87,000 to pay for the immigration training. Blunt's overall
budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1, calls for more than half a
million dollars to pay for immigration enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

House backs curbs on illegal immigrants Extra Highway Patrol training, status
checks in jails would be required.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


The House gave preliminary approval Wednesday to legislation that would crack
down on illegal immigrants - a week after the Senate approved its own version.

The House bill includes provisions requiring federal immigration law training
for the Missouri State Highway Patrol if there's funding, mandating immigration
status checks for those placed in jail and requiring that commercial drivers
license tests be given in English.

But the Senate Appropriations Committee has stripped money to pay for the
troopers' federal training from next year's budget. Gov. Matt Blunt asked
lawmakers to include $253,050 so 75 officers could be trained to use federal
immigration databases and enforce immigration laws.

A spokeswoman for the governor has said that lawmakers gave approval last year
for the training in a bill that allows "employees of the patrol to carry out any
public safety duty or service authorized or appropriated by the General
Assembly."

A spokesman for the Highway Patrol said no troopers would be sent for the
federal immigration training until it was known that lawmakers would pay for it.
Nationwide, more than 60 municipal, county and state police departments have
requested the federal training.

The House has already passed legislation that would bar illegal immigrants from
attending college. Also, a House committee is considering how to encourage
private businesses to use a federal database to run immigration checks.

The Senate legislation generally hasn't gone quite as far. For example, the
Senate version would allow illegal immigrants to attend a public college if the
student was born before Aug. 28, 2008, attended three semesters of a Missouri
high school and didn't receive in-state tuition.

The Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center estimates from U.S. Census data that
35,000 to 65,000 illegal immigrants live in Missouri - less than 1 percent of
the 12 million people estimated to be in the United States illegally.

Both the House and Senate have provisions designed to crack down on "sanctuary
cities" that have policies to not cooperate with federal immigration
authorities.

Bill supporters said no Missouri city yet qualified, but critics said they were
worried that Kansas City could - or at least might - be construed as being a
sanctuary city.

If a Missouri municipality is considered to be a sanctuary city, it would be
ineligible for state grants. Any lawmaker could request the state agency
awarding the grant to verify that an applicant city doesn't have a sanctuary
policy.

Bill supporters said about two dozen U.S. cities, including Los Angeles and New
York, had policies that would qualify them as sanctuary cities in Missouri.

Rep. Jenee Lowe said she was worried that innuendo and misconception could lead
to Kansas City's being labeled wrongly as a sanctuary city.

"The Police Department has determined it is more cost-effective and less
dangerous to the public at large to solve crimes than to check the documentation
of those reporting crimes," said Lowe, D-Kansas City.

Lawmakers define a "sanctuary policy" as an order or ordinance that limits
cooperation with federal immigration authorities or declares that illegal
immigrants are entitled to live within the city.

Sponsoring Rep. Bob Onder blamed sanctuary city policies for high-profile cases
in New Jersey and Virginia where illegal immigrants are accused of committing
crimes.

"In many cities where sanctuary policies have been adopted, this has been a big
problem and public safety issue," said Onder, R-Lake Saint Louis.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Pro-immigration marches are smaller But thousands still seek more opportunities
for those in U.S. illegally.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 278 words


Thousands of chanting, flag-waving immigrants and activists rallied in cities
across the country Thursday, attempting to reinvigorate calls for immigration
reform in a presidential election year in which the economy has taken center
stage.

From Washington to Miami to Los Angeles, immigrant rights activists demanded
citizenship opportunities for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the
U.S. and an end to raids and deportations.

"We come here to fight for legalization. We're people. We have rights," said
Eric Molina, an undocumented factory worker who immigrated to Zion, Ill., from
Mexico.

Molina, his sister and his 13-year-old daughter Erika, a U.S. citizen, were
among about 15,000 people who rallied in Chicago in one of the largest
demonstrations of the day.

Turnout has fallen sharply since the first nationwide rallies in 2006, when more
than 1 million people - at least 400,000 in Chicago alone - clogged streets and
brought traffic to a standstill in some downtowns.

Margot Veranes, a volunteer organizer in Tucson, Ariz. - where 12,000 took to
the streets last year but early estimates Thursday put the crowd at about 500, -
blamed the turnout on aggressive enforcement by Border Patrol and police.

In Washington, immigrant rights groups and social justice organizations were
demanding that Prince William County, in northern Virginia, rescind its
anti-illegal immigration measure. They also called for an end to raids and
deportations and for establishment of worker centers in Washington, Maryland and
Virginia.

Activists also asked the Republican and Democratic national committees to have
their presidential candidates push for immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - In Chicago on Thursday, participants in an immigration march and
protest make their way to the Federal Building. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 2, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration case spurs call for action against employers

BYLINE: By David Pitt THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Iowa


After the biggest immigration raid in U.S. history, hundreds of workers have
been sentenced but not one company official as yet faces any charges - something
critics say is typical of a federal government that is tough on employees but
easy on owners.

Worker advocates and lawmakers say the fact that nearly 400 workers were
arrested in the May 12 raid at the Agriprocessors Inc. plant in Postville - or
more than one-third of the total number of employees - proves that company
officials must have known they were hiring illegal immigrants.

"Until we enforce our immigration laws equally against both employers and
employees who break the law, we will continue to have a problem with
immigration," said U.S. Rep. Bruce Braley, an Iowa Democrat whose district
borders Postville.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the immigration reform group America's
Voice, says even those who think enforcement is the answer can't seriously
believe the 12 million illegal immigrants in the U.S. can be arrested and
deported.

"Even if you wanted to pursue an imbalanced enforcement-first strategy, the only
thoughtful way to do it would be to go after employers, make examples of them
and try to scare other employers into compliance," he said. "They're not doing
that."

The owner of the Postville plant, Aaron Rubashkin, has said that the company is
conducting its own investigation "into the circumstances which led to the recent
work site enforcement action, and is fully cooperating with the government." He
said the company could not respond to specific allegations due to pending legal
issues.

Court documents filed by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent before the
raid at the Postville plant indicate that authorities believed company
supervisors were violating a number of federal laws including harboring illegal
immigrants. An application and affidavit for a search warrant alleged that based
on 2007 fourth-quarter payroll reports, about 78 percent of Agriprocessors' 968
workers were using false or fraudulent Social Security numbers in connection
with their employment.

The court documents said Agriprocessors was notified by the Social Security
Administration in five separate letters of 500 Social Security number
discrepancies for each tax year from 2000 to 2005.

Of the 389 arrests at the plant, 297 pleaded guilty. The guilty pleas included
use of false identification documents to obtain employment and false use of a
Social Security number or cards.

Asked about the raid during a House hearing May 20, James Spero, a deputy
assistant director for ICE, said that he couldn't comment on a potential ongoing
investigation but said immigration enforcement at workplaces does include
investigations into violations by management and owners.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Want to avoid deportation? Go to a church Policy, not law, keeps federal agents
from arresting illegal immigrants in churches.

BYLINE: By Sophia Tareen THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Everyone knows where Flor Crisostomo lives, even the federal immigration
officials who have ordered her deported to Mexico. The reason they haven't
detained her is her address - the Adalberto United Methodist Church.

Another woman famously took refuge in that church as she championed immigration
reform, and at least 13 other illegal immigrants are doing the same at churches
around the country. So far, they have little to fear.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have arrested illegal
immigrants by the hundreds in raids at factories, restaurants, malls, farms and
meat packing plants, but they have handled cases involving churches delicately.

"Our agency takes enforcement actions when we deem it appropriate," said Julie
Myers, assistant secretary of homeland security for the immigration agency. "I
am personally not aware of an instance when ICE has gone into a church. That
being said, if there was a particular, extremely egregious ax murderer or
something else, that's not to say we would not enforce the law at that time."

Avoiding churches is unofficial policy for federal immigration officials,
according to Doris Meissner, a former commissioner at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the agency that oversaw immigration until the Department
of Homeland Security was formed in 2003.

Since the 1970s, the unwritten rule has been "no churches, no playgrounds, no
schools," said Meissner, now a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute
in Washington.

Critics say making exceptions for churches, where immigrants openly - and in
Crisostomo's case, very publicly - defy deportation, makes the agency look lax.

But Meissner said it wouldn't make sense for the agency to devote resources to
arrest the relatively small number of people taking refuge in churches.

"An agency like ICE has far more work than it can possibly ever do," Meissner
said. "You want to use those resources to thwart as much as possible egregious
criminal behavior. A single person in a church doesn't really measure very high
on a list."

Crisostomo came to the United States in 2000, paying a smuggler in Mexico to get
her across the border. She was arrested in 2006 in a raid at a wooden pallet
company in Chicago. She has been at the church for six months, since the Board
of Immigration Appeals ordered her to leave the United States. She has held news
conferences, written blogs and lectured to school groups about immigration
issues.

Over the past year, the immigration agency has focused on raids at workplaces.

"They pick work sites because they understand it is work that acts as a lure for
unauthorized migrants to come to the U.S.," said Louis DeSipio, a political
science professor who teaches Chicano/Latino studies at the University of
California at Irvine. "ICE is sensitive to the publicity effect of their
actions. They are careful on respecting religion and churches."

At the same time, Meissner said, ICE must "take into account that there is a
public image issue and that they're being taunted."

The Adalberto United Methodist gained widespread attention when it offered
sanctuary to another immigrant, Elvira Arellano, who stayed there for a year
with her U.S.-born son, and frequently spoke about immigrant rights.

She was arrested and deported to Mexico only after she left the church last
August to travel to a rally in Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2008



CORRECTION: The Board of Immigration Appeals ordered the deportation of Flor
Crisostomo, a Mexican immigrant living in a Chicago church, who was the subject
of an Associated Press story in the Sunday news section. The story was unclear
as to who had ordered the deportation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Flor Crisostomo , an illegal immigrant, shares a laugh with the Rev.
Walter Coleman at Adalberto United Methodist Church in Chicago on May 15.
Crisostomo has been living at the church to avoid deportation to Mexico.  The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

49 in Chicago are arrested in an immigration sweep

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Federal immigration authorities arrested 49 men in a four-day sweep targeting
illegal immigrants and gangs, officials announced Friday.

But the tactic, used by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement since 2005, has
long drawn criticism from immigrant rights organizations who say the group
arrests unfairly target Hispanics.

The operation was focused in Chicago's north suburbs, ICE said. Of those
arrested, 48 were illegal immigrants and one was a U.S. permanent resident. Most
of the men were from Mexico; one was from Guatemala.

The men, who all face deportation, were accused of crimes including arson,
battery, burglary and drug possession. ICE said 47 were members or associates of
gangs including Brown Pride, Imperial Gangsters, Insane Dueces and Latin Kings.

"Street gangs pose a growing public safety threat to communities throughout this
area," Gary Hartwig, special agent in charge of the ICE Office of Investigations
in Chicago, said in a statement Friday. "We will not tolerate violent gang
activity in our communities, and will use all of our law enforcement tools to
thwart criminal efforts of street gangs."

ICE started its "Operation Community Shield" in 2005 to work with local law
enforcement agencies and fight transnational gangs. Since then, almost 9,000
people have been arrested nationwide from more than 700 gangs, ICE said.

But immigrant rights advocates have fiercely criticized the group arrests,
saying they promote stereotypes.

"These raids by ICE are publicity stunts designed to send a message that
Mexicans are criminals," said Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois
Coalition of Immigrant and Refugee Rights. "They make it look like ICE is doing
work and doing something."

The criticism isn't surprising to ICE, including its top official, Julie Myers.

She has said the large-scale operations - including daytime raids that are
carried out at factories, farms, restaurants and plants nationwide - help get
criminals off the streets and carry out immigration law.

"There's no question that a lot of these laws had not been vigorously enforced a
few years ago," Myers, assistant secretary of homeland security for ICE, said in
a recent interview. "I think there are some folks who are surprised that our
efforts are so active."

Of the arrests announced Friday, nine men had been previously deported and 42
had criminal histories.

ICE worked with several agencies including sheriff's departments in four
counties and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration task forces are planned

BYLINE: By Chris Blank The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 491 words


JEFFERSON CITY - The Missouri State Highway Patrol and federal immigration
authorities plan to set up three joint task forces in Missouri to focus on
illegal immigration.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that Missouri has been
unique in its efforts to assist with federal immigration authorities. That's
because the state has combined the three-pronged task force with a series of
briefings held earlier this year to teach Missouri police officers about
immigration law and how they can help enforce it.

"In these respects, Missouri has been unusual and unique in coordinating this
training and getting this information out around the state," ICE spokesman Carl
Rusnok said Monday.

The Highway Patrol plans to use 18 troopers who have received special federal
training to staff task force offices in Kansas City, Springfield and St. Louis.
The units will be called the Missouri Gateway Task Force and were formally
created by an agreement signed by Gov. Matt Blunt recently.

Highway Patrol spokesman Lt. John Hotz said that the troopers will focus on
crimes such as harboring illegal immigrants, transporting illegal immigrants and
human trafficking. Those troopers assigned to the task forces are to spend one
week every quarter working in the federal immigration offices.

In July, 10 state troopers completed special immigration training, which allows
them to start enforcing federal immigration laws in Missouri. The Highway Patrol
started checking the immigration status of those they arrest after an August
2007 directive from Blunt's office.

Hotz said the governor's order also prompted the patrol to pursue creating a
special joint task force with federal immigration authorities.

In a written statement, Blunt said the task force would also help crack down on
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

"People from all over the globe come to our great nation to share our freedoms,
and Missourians embrace the contributions that lawful immigration makes to our
society," Blunt said. "Missourians do not condone lawbreaking, and that is why
my administration will continue to take important, proactive steps to protect
our state from unlawful immigration."

The Missouri troopers received special federal immigration training under a
provision in a 1996 immigration law that allows U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to train and deputize state and local law enforcement. After the
training, the police officers work under the supervision of federal immigration
authorities.

Only officers who are U.S. citizens, have been in their current position for at
least two years and have no pending disciplinary actions are eligible to be
trained.

But immigration advocates, and even some of the nation's police chiefs, have
questioned the wisdom of using police officers to enforce federal immigration
laws. They fear it could stretch local resources and make illegal immigrants
less likely to report crimes and cooperate with police.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

EU is targeting illegal immigrants Parliament OKs new rules as pressure for
crackdown mounts.

BYLINE: By Jan Sliva THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: STRASBOURG, France


Europe's hardening attitudes toward immigration found a voice in the EU
Parliament on Wednesday, as legislators passed new rules for expelling illegals
amid a widening crackdown in the United States.

As the global economy slows, governments in well-to-do countries are coming
under more pressure to act on illegal immigration. While the European rules do
not lay the groundwork for workplace raids as in America, they do contain such
measures such as long detention periods.

The European Union is dealing with tension over immigrants: Italians blame
foreigners for a rise in crime, France is grappling with violence in
immigrant-heavy communities, and Belgium has come under criticism for its
treatment of foreigners in detention centers.

The EU says the vast majority of the immigrants come to Europe from North
Africa, former Soviet countries and the Balkans. For instance, 24,000
sub-Saharan African immigrants were caught trying to reach Spain in 2006 and
10,000 in 2007. More than 1,000 African immigrants also are believed to have
died at sea trying to reach Spain in 2007.

Until now, there has been no common EU policy on expelling illegal immigrants,
and detention periods varied from 32 days in France to indefinite custody in
Britain, the Netherlands and five other countries.

Under the new guidelines, already approved by EU governments, illegal immigrants
can be held in specialized detention centers - not jails - for up to 18 months
before being expelled. But EU countries must provide detained migrants basic
rights, including access to free legal advice, and unaccompanied children or
families with children should be held only as a last resort.

Following apprehension, immigrants will be given the opportunity to leave
voluntarily within 30 days. If there is a flight risk or they do not comply,
they can be put in custody for up to six months while their deportation is
processed.

A 12-month extension would be possible in specific cases, such as when illegal
immigrants do not cooperate with authorities or when their identity must be
verified with their home country. A re-entry ban of up to five years may be
imposed on expelled immigrants who do not cooperate or are deemed a threat.

"Europe has made it clear that it is not tolerating any form of illegal status,"
said German Christian Democrat Manfred Weber, who steered the bill through
Parliament.

The EU estimates there could be up to 8 million illegal immigrants in the
27-nation bloc, many of them living in squalid conditions and engaged in the
black market economy. This compares with roughly 11 million illegal immigrants
in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Border crossings Mexican druglords take over migrant smuggling routes

BYLINE: By Olga R. Rodriguez The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: SASABE, Mexico


Mexican druglords are taking over the business of smuggling migrants into the
United States, using them as human decoys to divert authorities from billions of
dollars in cocaine shipments across the same border.

U.S. and Mexican law enforcement officials said in interviews that drug
traffickers, in response to a U.S. border crackdown, have seized control of the
routes they once shared with human smugglers and in the process are transforming
themselves into more diversified crime syndicates.

The drug gangs get protection money from the migrants and then use them to clear
the trail for the flow of drugs.

Undocumented aliens are used "to maneuver where they want us or don't want us to
be," said Alonzo Pena, chief of investigations for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in Arizona.

Gustavo Soto, a spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol in Tucson, Ariz., said
smugglers are carrying drugs along paths once used primarily by migrants. New
fences and National Guard troops have helped seal the usual drug routes, and
vehicle barriers are forcing traffickers to send more drugs north on the backs
of cartel foot soldiers, he said.

The advent of drug-trafficking extortionists along the border may also be
responsible for much of the drop in illegal immigration that U.S. officials have
attributed more directly to better enforcement, Mexican officials and analysts
say.

The new order became clear in December when heavily armed men stopped 12 vans
packed with 200 migrants on a desolate desert road south of the border. Local
officials say they ordered everyone out, doused the vehicles with gasoline and
set them ablaze.

Nobody was hurt, but the charred carcasses of the vehicles remain a message to
the thousands of migrants traveling north.

Since then, members of the powerful Sinaloa drug cartel have consolidated
control of most of the main routes into Arizona, using teams of gunmen to set up
the haggard border-crossers as decoys for U.S. security, U.S. and Mexican
officials said.

Just south of the Arizona border, near the key people-smuggling way station of
Sasabe, armed men at a gas station stop vans full of migrants heading north,
charging them $90 each and dictating when and where they can cross, migrants and
local officials said in interviews.

At times, the migrants are pooled and sent across in large numbers at one time
of the day, clearing the route for a drug shipment a short time later. Smugglers
also direct migrants away from successful drug routes in hopes of minimizing the
number of U.S. authorities assigned to the area.

While the Sinaloa cartel controls the Arizona border, its main rival, the Gulf
cartel, has become involved in the people-smuggling business along the Texas
border, according to Noe Ramirez, a Mexican deputy attorney general.

Still, the Mexican border is providing a less reliable profit stream for drug
smugglers, analysts and law enforcement officials say. The U.S. seized 20
percent more cocaine and 28 percent more marijuana along the border in the past
six months, compared with the same period a year earlier. And last month,
Mexican police made the world's largest seizure of drug cash - $207 million
neatly stacked inside a Mexico City mansion - allegedly for a methamphetamine
factory that would have produced 3 million pills a day for the U.S. market.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; MAP
 PHOTO - Migrants rest last month at the Juan Bosco migrant shelter in the
border town of Nogales, Mexico. Mexican druglords, fighting back against
increased U.S. border security, have seized control of migrant-smuggling routes,
Mexican and U.S. officials say. The Associated Press  MAP - CROSSING THE BORDER
AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 465 words


WASHINGTON

Border inspector who let in TB patient has retired

The U.S. border inspector who ignored a warning to stop a globe-trotting
tuberculosis patient from entering the United States has retired, officials said
Monday.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said the
officer no longer works at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency.

The 18-year inspector, whose name has not been disclosed, was under
investigation and on administrative leave.

Andrew Speaker, an Atlanta lawyer, sparked an international scare when health
officials tried to find - and isolate - him because he was infected with an
exceptionally dangerous form of TB.

Speaker, 31, is being treated at a Denver hospital.

LAREDO, TEXAS

3 soldiers accused of smuggling immigrants

Three National Guardsmen assigned to the Texas-Mexico border were accused of
running an immigrant smuggling ring after 24 immigrants were found inside a van
that one of them was driving, a U.S. attorney said Monday.

The three were arraigned Monday on a federal charge of conspiring to transport
illegal immigrants.

Pfc. Jose Rodrigo Torres, 26, and Sgt. Julio Cesar Pacheco, 25, both of Laredo,
and Sgt. Clarence Hodge Jr., 36, of Fort Worth, were arrested Thursday and
Friday near Laredo.

A Border Patrol agent found 24 illegal immigrants inside a van Torres was
driving along Interstate 35 near Cotulla, Texas, about 68 miles north of the
border, prosecutors said.

The van was leased by the National Guard, according to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security.

WASHINGTON

Missourian helps launch anti-poverty program

St. Louisan Jack Oliver helped kick off a $30 million campaign Monday to push
presidential candidates from both political parties to make global poverty a key
issue.

Oliver, a Republican activist and fundraiser, is co-chairing the ONE Campaign,
which will run media and voter mobilization campaigns in the "early primary"
states, including Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada.

The project is the brainchild of U2 singer Bono, and has received a $22 million
boost from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

ATLANTA

Court rejects challenge to Georgia voter ID law

The Georgia Supreme Court threw out a challenge Monday to the state's voter ID
law, sidestepping a decision on whether the requirement is constitutional.

The unanimous opinion reversed a judge's ruling in September that the law posed
an unconstitutional burden on voters but did not speak to that issue, ruling
instead that the plaintiff had no legal grounds to challenge the law in the
first place.

After the lower court ruling, the State Election Board decided not to require
voters to show a photo ID to cast a ballot in the November elections. It was
unclear if the state could begin requiring voters to show identification at the
polls.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

3 brothers smuggled, beat workers, prosecution says

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 256 words


Federal agents arrested three St. Louis-area brothers who are accused of
smuggling illegal immigrants into the United States to work as roofers, the U.S.
attorney's office said Wednesday.

The brothers - Jeronimo, Juan and Jenaro Gutierrez - have all been charged with
one count each of smuggling, transporting and harboring illegal immigrants;
employing illegal immigrants; and aiding and abetting such offenses, prosecutors
said.

The defendants' mother, who lives in Mexico, recruited four workers there with
promises of a four-year contract with the brothers' company, Golden Roofing, and
had them take a bus to the border in early July 2006, where smugglers brought
them across, prosecutors said.

Juan and Jenaro Gutierrez picked the men up in Austin, Texas, and paid a
smuggler $4,000 per worker, prosecutors said. After arriving in St. Louis, the
men were "allegedly beaten, threatened and always reminded that they had to
repay their 'smuggling debt,'" said U.S. Attorney Catherine Hanaway in a
prepared statement.

Reached by telephone Wednesday evening, Juan Gutierrez's son Jose Gutierrez
denied that the brothers mistreated their workers. "They treat them well," Jose
Gutierrez said. Immigrants who owed a debt to the brothers could pay whenever
they wanted, he said.

The brothers and other family members could not be reached for comment Wednesday
evening. Their mother has not been charged in the case here.

The brothers could face up to 10 years in prison or fines of $250,000, or both,
if convicted, the U.S. attorney's office said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 25, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Agents seek smugglers on roads that are far from border

BYLINE: By Alicia A. Caldwell the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: PEARL, Miss.


Detective Nick McLendon, on stakeout duty along a dark stretch of eastbound
Interstate 20, noticed a red Chevy Suburban with heavily tinted windows and no
light over its rear Texas license plate. The missing light gave him all the
excuse he needed to pull the SUV over.

Packed into the Suburban, he discovered, were 14 illegal immigrants, two
suspected smugglers and a spiral notebook on the front seat listing the
passengers and their destinations in Spanish.

The arrests - some 800 miles from the Mexican border - represented a new and
dramatic shift in U.S. immigration enforcement strategy.

Federal agents, with help from local law officers like McLendon, a Pearl
detective, have begun intercepting illegal immigrants and smugglers along
stretches of highway deep in the U.S. interior, where those who have slipped
into the country usually have little chance of getting caught.

"They think they're pretty much home free once they get up here," said Bill
Botts, the assistant chief patrol agent in charge of the Border Patrol's
Gulfport, Miss., station. But the two-week crackdown that began Jan. 13, "is
pretty much a shocker for the smuggling organizations."

More than 300 immigrants and suspected smugglers had been arrested as of
Tuesday, more than a week into the operation.

Interstate 20 has become a major corridor for immigrant smugglers. It peels off
from I-10 in West Texas and runs across the South, passing through Atlanta and
linking up with other major highways, including I-95, which leads to Miami to
the south and Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston to the north.

About 40 Border Patrol and customs agents who normally work at or close to the
border have been temporarily assigned to the crackdown. They and local law
officers have spread out along several miles of I-20 and some of its connecting
highways, parking their vehicles out in the open in the median or by the side of
the road.

After the two weeks are up, they will return to their usual jobs and evaluate
what they learned. In the coming weeks or months, they may return to I-20 and do
it again.

The hope, though, is whether they come back or not, the crackdown will put
immigrant smugglers on notice and disrupt their business by forcing them to take
longer, slower and more costly detours.

Border Patrol spokesman Ramon Rivera said the vast majority of those caught in
the crackdown are Mexicans headed to the East Coast, where they typically land
jobs in agriculture, construction and manufacturing. Agents also found a Mexican
who had paid a smuggler $400 to get him home to avoid a murder charge in
Chicago.

But perhaps more important, the agents also uncovered vital information about a
few prolific smuggling rings and a popular Texas stash house where immigrants
were being kept after crossing the border.

"The intelligence we are getting is absolutely priceless," Rivera said.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Illegal immigration

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A Border Patrol agent stands by as people suspected of being in the
country illegally exit a detention van in Pearl, Miss., earlier this month.
Federal agents and local law officers have begun intercepting illegal immigrants
and smugglers along stretches of highway deep in the U.S. interior.   The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Contractors voice concerns Group wants Congress to change immigration laws.

BYLINE: By Repps Hudson st. louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 370 words


Construction contractors have a wish list for the new Congress that includes
changes in laws affecting immigration and taxes, as well as allocating nearly
$40 billion in federal highway spending.

"We want to stop unscrupulous contractors that are gaming the system, exploiting
workers and gaining an unfair advantage" by hiring undocumented foreign workers,
mostly from Latin America, said Stephen E. Sandherr, chief executive of the
32,000-member Associated General Contractors of America, based in Arlington, Va.

Sandherr, who spoke Tuesday to local AGC members to outline the national
organization's agenda, said a top priority is changing immigration laws to allow
a guest-worker program and to monitor more closely what employers pay workers in
wages and benefits.

He said a major complaint of contractors and construction craft unions is that
some contractors hire undocumented workers, underpay them, ignore laws that
require them to pay benefits and then underbid legitimate contractors.

Sandherr said the construction sector, which did $1.2 trillion worth of work
nationwide in 2006 and expects a slight increase this year, needs easier entry
for foreign workers to overcome a continuing labor shortage.

The contractors' lobby also wants to ensure that Congress authorizes spending
$39.4 billion from the national Highway Trust Fund, paid for by federal taxes on
motor fuels.

Sandherr said his organization is worried that Congress simply will pass a
continuing resolution to keep spending at the present level, which is $36
billion. The difference of $3.4 billion could have a negative impact on highway
construction, he said.

The contractors also want to revise a federal tax law, to go into effect in
2011, that would allow federal, state and local governments to withhold three
percent of a public-works project's cost to ensure the contractor pays all
taxes.

"Do you think cities want to hold onto this?" Sandherr asked. "We are afraid the
contractors will never get their money back."

He said in public-works projects, which are bid competitively, the profit margin
can be as low as one percent to two percent. If a customer withheld three
percent of the total cost, that could wipe out any profit for the contractor.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Jon Summers, of Pocatello, Idaho, constructs a frame for a new house
Tuesday. Joe Kline | Idaho State Journal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration fact: U.S. is not flooded with foreign workers

BYLINE: DAVID NICKLAUS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 582 words


If we're going to debate immigration, let's at least get our facts right.
Contrary to heated rhetoric coming from both the left and right, we're not being
flooded with foreign-born residents.

The annual inflow of immigrants, legal and illegal, amounts to about 5 people
for every 1,000 U.S. residents. The rate was twice as high in the early years of
the 20th century.

Do we need to fix our immigration laws? Yes. But does the primary focus need to
be on keeping unwanted people out? Emphatically, no.

Major American industries like agriculture, construction and information
technology would shrink without ready access to immigrant workers. As Congress
debates immigration reform, its primary goal should be to provide the work force
our economy needs.

To that end, it's encouraging to see Democratic leaders reach a compromise with
President George W. Bush that includes a path to citizenship for some people who
are in the country illegally. The compromise bill also includes an increase in
the number of visas for skilled workers, and it creates a "points" system that
would favor immigrants with education and job skills.

Business groups, though, are already griping about the bill. Compete America, a
coalition that includes companies from Altria and Coca-Cola to Google and
Microsoft, complains that the number of H1B visas for skilled workers still
won't be enough, and that the points system "will take key personnel

decision-making out of the hands of U.S. employers."

In short, companies would rather recruit the workers they want, not have to
choose among those the government lets in. The high-tech folks point out that a
majority of U.S. advanced degrees in science, math and engineering are earned by
foreigners, and that immigration quotas are too narrow to let those valuable
graduates stay in this country.

Lower-tech industries aren't satisfied either. The Associated General
Contractors of America, a trade group for the construction industry, says it's
concerned about the immigration bill's enforcement provisions, which would
require companies to check workers' records against a giant government database.

It sounds cumbersome, especially for an industry where time is money. "On a
construction job, you can't wait around for weeks or even several days to get
your workers cleared," says Ken Simonson, the AGC's chief economist. "They're
looking at implementing some streamlined verification procedure, but that
remains a hypothetical at this point. We're very concerned about the details and
the expense."

The contractors also are worried about the idea of requiring illegal workers, if
they want a path to legitimacy, to leave the country and then apply to come
back. Simonson said the construction industry likes the idea of "greater
certainty" about immigrants' legal status, but fears a disruption in business if
large numbers of workers are forced to leave temporarily.

Doing without immigrants simply isn't an option. "We've been concerned for years
about there not being enough workers entering construction and the large numbers
approaching retirement age," Simonson said. "We certainly see immigration as an
important part of the solution."

So, after we get our facts straight, let's acknowledge one thing: We need
hard-working people from other parts of the world. We need them to build our
houses, harvest our crops, design our new high-tech devices.

Yes, we should enforce our immigration laws. But first we need to write laws
that meet the needs of a 21st century economy.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Plant raided in immigration case More than 165 workers are held; bogus Social
Security numbers found.

BYLINE: By William McCall The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.


Federal agents on Tuesday raided the offices of a food processing plant
suspected of employing hundreds of illegal workers who used Social Security
numbers that belonged to other people or were made up.

More than 165 plant workers were detained to be processed for possible
deportation, officials said, and three people were indicted on immigration,
illegal documents and identity theft charges.

The raid at American Staffing Resources Inc. offices at a Fresh Del Monte
Produce fruit and vegetable processing plant was based on an investigation by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Social Security Administration that
began in January, officials said.

Separate American Staffing offices also were searched, along with a Fresh Del
Monte office, officials said.

The detained workers were being processed in Washington state, pending an
appearance before an immigration judge. More than 30, however, were released
because of humanitarian concerns but given a notice to appear, officials said.

According to an affidavit filed by Maximillian Trimm, a special agent with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a check of employee records at one point
showed that only 48 of nearly 600 workers at the plant had valid Social Security
numbers.

The raid Tuesday involved fewer than 600 workers because of seasonal employment
changes and shift work, said Leigh Winchell, agent in charge of the Seattle ICE
office.

Federal prosecutors said that 20 of the Social Security numbers being misused
belonged to people 60 or older, and that 29 belonged to dead people.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration bill revived; bistate senators still split NEW PUSH FOR VOTE Guest
worker plan, other issues give foes many angles of attack on Bush-backed
measure.

BYLINE: By Adam Sichko Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Claire McCaskill compared herself to Goldilocks when voting against ending
debate on a sweeping immigration reform bill this month. The bill, she said, was
never "just right."

After daily behind-the-scenes negotiations, the bill's bipartisan architects
will try again to bring the measure to a vote this week.

But McCaskill, D-Mo., and one of a minority of Senate Democrats not supporting
the legislation, still can't stomach it.

"It's simply because the necessary changes have not been made to a point she's
comfortable with," spokeswoman Adrianne Marsh said. "She's heard no discussions
on any attempts to change the provisions of the bill that are most problematic
for her."

Marsh cited an expanded guest worker program as among McCaskill's concerns.

The divisions on the bill in place at the start of the month - pitting
Missouri's delegation against senators from Illinois - appear to be intact.

McCaskill and Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., remain against the bill.
Illinois Sens. Dick Durbin and Barack Obama, both Democrats, support moving the
bill forward.

The bill aims to beef up border security and provide a path to citizenship for
the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in America. This month, it fell 15
votes shy of the number needed to shut down Senate debate and move toward a
final vote.

Since then, President George W. Bush has personally lobbied Republicans on
behalf of the bill, and a variety of provisions have been added - including a
$4.4 billion allocation for "immediate" border security improvements and tougher
penalties for people who overstay their visas.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz. and an architect of the bill, expressed optimism that the
measure would pass by week's end despite the "rocky" road it has traveled.

"It was dead for a while, but we never considered it dead," Kyl told reporters
Friday. "We resurrected it."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., blamed Republicans for not providing
enough votes to speed the bill toward passage. Still, many Senate observers see
McCaskill and other freshmen Democrats as potential swing votes.

Yet, McCaskill almost certainly would be a "no" vote on the bill even if
senators approve her amendment that would stiffen punishments for employers who
repeatedly hire illegal immigrants, Marsh said.

McCaskill's amendment would ban employers from receiving government contracts
for at least five years if they hired illegal immigrants. That's three years
beyond the bill's maximum penalty.

Bond, too, has an amendment - one that some Democrats have labeled a "deal
killer." It would effectively prohibit any illegal immigrant from ever earning
legal citizenship, contrary to a core provision of the bill.

Bond isn't lured by the additional border security funding, said his press
secretary, Charles Chamberlayne.

"Before we can even address immigration, he believes we have to secure our
border," Chamberlayne said. "As long as there's a path for illegal immigrants to
citizenship, (Bond) will not support the bill."

Obama is pushing an amendment that, in part, would erase the bill's provision
requiring employers to verify the legal status of all employees.

To avoid this "onerous and unnecessary requirement," as Obama put it, his
amendment would require citizenship checks "only when there is evidence to
suspect unlawful employment."

Kyl labeled Obama's amendment as "weak" and a "moving target."

Kyl said most senators know action needs to be taken.

"There's a sufficient outcry in this country to see that the laws are enforced,"
Kyl told reporters. "Senators realize that we gotta show we're serious now."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 DIVIDING LINES o Missouri senators (left) oppose the bill; Illinois' (right)
want to bring it to a vote.  PHOTO - McCaskill  PHOTO - Bond  PHOTO - Durbin
PHOTO - Obama

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration arrests include construction firm president

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz.


Federal authorities arrested a construction company's president and several
employees Friday on allegations they hired illegal workers and used lookouts to
avoid immigration agents.

Eight undocumented workers were detained Friday. Authorities said 30 others had
been picked up previously in the investigation.

Agents fanned out in Sierra Vista, about 50 miles southeast of Tucson, in the
raid on Sun Dry Wall & Stucco Inc.'s offices, a foreman's home, the home of a
suspected counterfeiter and eight work sites.

Taken into custody were company president Ivan Hardt, 44; the firm's human
resources manager, Carol Hill, 42; and four other employees. They were charged
with conspiring to hire illegal workers and harboring illegal workers.

The arrests came three days after agents raided a factory in Massachusetts and
detained more than 300 illegal workers.

Dozens of those workers were later released for humanitarian reasons, most
related to child care. They still must appear before a judge for hearings.

Authorities alleged Michael Bianco Inc. in New Bedford, Mass., used sweatshop
conditions to fill $91 million in military contracts making products including
safety vests and backpacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - In New Bedford, Mass., Thursday, Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick
speaks with family members of illegal immigrants detained in a federal raid. The
Standard-Times / The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 1563 words


Missouri needs oversight, not more privatization

Regarding "Reprieve for center serving disabled" (March 14): Gov. Matt Blunt's
administration has single-handedly privatized work responsibilities at almost
every state agency, the state Capitol and even on boards and commissions. The
Missouri Chamber of Commerce and Industry supports efforts to privatize the
state government. This must stop.

With privatization, inappropriate things happen, such as hiring undocumented
workers, as is the case with a private contractor hired by the Blunt
administration to clean state buildings that employed suspected illegal
immigrants.

The argument for privatization is to reduce overhead costs, which typically
means no health care benefits and lower pay. To further reduce costs, some
unscrupulous private businesses hire undocumented workers, who often are
desperate and willing to work for wages well below the market rate. This is a
practice the Chamber of Commerce should oppose as it harms those chamber members
who adhere to the law.

Who's picking the cotton fields in southern Missouri and working at the pig and
chicken farms? It's certainly not only legal-status Missourians. It is
immigrants who work hard and want to become legal immigrants and live the
American Dream like everyone else. For the governor to take credit for capturing
undocumented workers in an environment of privatization that he helped create is
hypocritical and a campaign ploy. It won't work.

Missourians expect more oversight and a comprehensive policy for dealing with
immigration.

State Rep. Maria Chappelle-Nadal | D-University City

Investors in our pockets

The recent Moody's downgrading of Ameren bonds to junk bond status have many
worried that God has spoken from the mountaintop ("More stormy weather for
Ameren," March 15). To say that Moody's is an independent service is like saying
that the fox has no interest in being in or out of the chicken coop.

This is about money, particularly citizen's money. It should be about doing the
right thing for the taxpayers instead of for the faceless investors.

The abuses by Enron may be over, but not the driving corporate philosophy behind
it. It exists in every board room in America and won't be over until citizens
say enough is enough - or maybe until our pockets are cleaned dry.

Robert Messick | Wood River

Keeping secrets

The editorial "Pursuing the American Dream" (March 11) is baffling. Why would
the editors, who should believe in free and fair elections, oppose a secret
ballot? The editorial's only argument is that employers might engage in unlawful
activities when trying to thwart a union. This could be valid if arguing for
stronger sanctions against employers who violate labor laws.

It is ludicrous to support taking away Americans' right. Employees considering
unionization can receive pressure from both pro- and anti-union forces. The
National Labor Relations Board should monitor these situations and strictly
enforce the law, but a secret ballot surely is the fairest way to resolve the
issue.

Gary Cope | Collinsville

Fairer elections

It amazes me that the editorial writers do not see the hypocrisy in the Employee
Free Choice Act ("Pursuing the American Dream," March 11). Forcing employees
publicly to sign or not sign to unionize will subject them to criticism and
harassment from the opponents of their choice. The editorial staff is so biased
that it is happy to accommodate the unions in this bill without regard for the
individual worker.

Is the board suggesting that we should eliminate the secret ballot in our
elections to make them "free choice"? Would that make them fairer?

Bob Pugh | Kirkwood

Sex assaults always result in serious injury

I was appalled by recent articles recounting the attack and assault of a real
estate agent. Who says rape leaves its victim "not seriously injured"?

Rape does serious injury to your psyche, your security, your dignity, your
confidence, your trust in personal judgment and your faith in humankind.

What, too, about the serious injury of guilt that society has taught our rape
victims to feel? "Didn't you see the signs?" "Why weren't you more careful?"
"What were you wearing?" "Why didn't you run?" What about the serious injury of
dealing with family relationships in the aftermath: the husband, the parents and
some fabrication or euphemism an an explanation to the children?

When did robbery take precedence over sexual assault when recounting details of
a violent crime? Any of us gladly would give up a purse in lieu of an attack.

To allay public concern by minimizing the damage is a panacea, is disrespectful
to the victim and, ultimately, a disservice to us all. Rape is a violent crime
that always does serious injury. Period.

Lee Ann Clement | Pacific

Not the parents' fault

Why do we continue to place blame for teen alcoholism? In 1956, the American
Medical Association declared alcoholism a disease. The story "Chances are, it's
you" (March 12) blames parents for the disease because of "modeling behavior."
Do we blame parents for other diseases?

Parents already blame themselves. This self-blame is both untrue and
counterproductive. If the hospitals that contributed to the article believe as
they proclaimed that it is a disease, why are they no longer treating it? Why do
they no longer offer family programs for these parents? The St. Louis area had
805 private chemical dependence beds in 1990, all with family programming. Now,
the area has only 20 beds. With the advent of managed care, was treatment no
longer profitable? Evidently not, and the hospital beds that closed were
non-profit.

The Department of Mental Health and United Way are among the few groups that
provide teen-specific prevention and treatment programs for substance abuse.

The stigma related to alcoholism and drug abuse still exists. I traveled to
Minnesota for treatment for my teenager, who did recover. Now, 26 years later, I
still would not have a private, in-patient treatment option close to home.

This is a tragedy for St. Louis and most of Missouri. Let the community, the
professionals and the parents with children in recovery stand together to become
advocates for prevention and treatment programs for teens and adults, those
still suffering and those in recovery.

Mary L. Boeger | Frontenac

Revenge outing

"Libby? Pity the poor Wilsons" (March 12), the ugly and mean-spirited column by
Jonah Goldberg, was spiteful.

We learned a few things from the I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby trial. Mr. Libby was
tried and correctly found guilty of obstructing justice and committing perjury.
He was convicted of four of five felony counts, a pretty serious matter. The
conviction means that Mr. Libby lied, repeatedly, to the grand jury. Mr. Libby
is a lawyer, although not for long, and understands perjury. He did this,
deliberately, to protect others. Specifically, we know that Karl Rove, Ari
Fleischer, Richard Armitage and several others all revealed CIA agent Valerie
Plame's identity to reporters. It really doesn't matter who was first; they all
committed a treasonous act. Finally, we know, from his own handwriting, that
Vice President Dick Cheney was the instigator. In revealing her identity,
extremely important CIA assets were revealed and compromised. Why? For revenge.

The Republicans believe nothing is as important as stabbing your enemy in the
back, even if it destroys the CIA.

Paul A. Thompson | Belleville

Immorality of war

I am outraged at the comments Gen. Peter Pace recently made about homosexuality
being immoral and comparing it to adultery ("Top U.S. general calls homosexual
acts immoral," March 13). Since when does military leadership get to be the
morality police and proclaim what is moral or immoral?

Gen. Pace should apologize for his remarks. As chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, he sets the tone for how our military men and women are treated. His
comments are disrespectful to the more than 65,000 gays and lesbian Americans
who proudly serve in our armed forces. All of our military personnel deserve
praise for their extraordinary sacrifices regardless of their sexual
orientation.

If Gen. Pace insists on publicly sharing his views, I would love to hear his
thoughts on the immorality of war, torture, violence and lies.

Tracy McCreery | St. Louis

Soldiers and sexuality

Gen. Peter Pace's display of ignorance in defending the long-broken "Don't Ask,
Don't Tell" policy reflects a broader problem in the U.S. military ("Top U.S.
general calls homosexual acts immoral," March 13). What kind of country do we
live in when the military grants so-called moral waivers to convicted felons and
allows them to enlist, yet does not allow openly-gay patriots to serve? That is
immorality. Dismissing 50 military personnel who are fluent in Arabic just
because they are gay is immoral.

I had a high school teacher about 10 years ago who was a veteran of Gulf War I,
was shot five times in Panama and now is back in Iraq. This teacher also was an
evangelical Christian who believed that homosexuality is wrong. When it came to
gays in the military, he was a pragmatist. He once told me in class, "If a
soldier is loyal to his country, smart and good with a gun, I couldn't care less
if he's gay or not, and I'd go into battle with him any day."

The military's homosexuality policy needs to be reversed, and these translators
need to be brought back and allowed to serve.

Jay Lewis | University City

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Guest worker plan survives for now Bill would give quick legal status to 12
million illegal immigrants, bar undocumented workers from getting jobs and
tighten border security.

BYLINE: By Robert Pear and Michael Luo NEW YORK TIMES Philip Dine of the
Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A comprehensive immigration bill survived a significant test Tuesday as the
Senate voted to keep a provision that would let hundreds of thousands of
temporary foreign workers enter the country each year.

If the guest worker program, part of the "grand bargain" negotiated with the
administration of President George W. Bush by a bipartisan group of 12 senators,
had been stripped from the bill, the fragile deal could have collapsed.

Despite the vote Tuesday, supporters of the bill were clearly on the defensive.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who helped write the bill, said eliminating the guest
worker program would be a "huge problem" for the architects of the proposal.

Martinez said they "could live with" a separate amendment to scale back the
program to 200,000 workers, as proposed by Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M. Senators
from both parties said it was likely that this second proposal would pass.

Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the bill, said public
opinion on the measure was being shaped by "misconceptions, misunderstandings
and misinformation."

Kyl said he received a mixed reception Tuesday when he described the bill at a
meeting of House Republicans.

"A lot of them are pretty skeptical," Kyl said.

Senators of both parties said their offices had been flooded with telephone
calls from constituents criticizing a provision of the bill that would offer
legal status to most of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

The Senate Democratic whip, Dick Durbin of Illinois, said the bill was "drawing
opposition from business, labor, Democrats, Republicans, theists and nontheists,
American League and National League baseball fans. What I'm trying to say to you
is there's more opposition to this bill than support."

But Durbin added, "The force behind this compromise is the understanding that if
we fail, the process ends probably for the next two years."

The vote Tuesday was on a proposal by Sen. Byron L. Dorgan, D-N.D., to eliminate
the temporary worker program. His amendment failed, 64-31.

Employers say they want to hire foreign workers because they cannot find
Americans to fill all the jobs in hotels, restaurants, nursing homes, hospitals
and the construction industry.

"How about paying a decent wage?" Dorgan asked on the Senate floor. "You would
find plenty of people to take these jobs."

Under the bill, 400,000 to 600,000 temporary foreign workers could enter the
United States each year on two-year visas.

Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., denounced the guest worker program, saying it
would produce a pool of "desperate low-wage workers" whom employers could easily
exploit.

Among the Democrats voting to kill the guest worker program were the majority
leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; the majority whip, Durbin; Robert Byrd of West
Virginia; and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who is seeking the Democratic
presidential nomination.

Two other Democratic presidential hopefuls, Barack Obama of Illinois and
Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, were absent. So was Sen. John McCain of
Arizona, who is seeking the Republican nomination.

Durbin and Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri voted for the amendment to
eliminate the guest worker program on Tuesday, while Sen. Christopher "Kit"
Bond, R-Mo., voted against it.

McCaskill had said in her campaign for the Senate last year that she was opposed
to an expansion of the guest worker program, because it wasn't well-run. "She
doesn't believe in growing a broken program," her spokeswoman, Adrianne Marsh,
said Tuesday.

Meanwhile, Bond said, "negotiations seem to have produced a bipartisan
agreement, but as they say, the devil is in the details. I will be looking for
something that secures the border and increases enforcement against illegal
immigration."

The Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, defended the program,
saying: "Temporary workers are obviously needed. We have almost full employment
in this country."

Labor unions lobbied against the program. Linda Chavez-Thompson, executive vice
president of the AFL-CIO, said the bill would provide employers with "a ready
pool of labor that they can exploit to drive down wages, benefits, health and
safety protections and other workplace standards."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., usually an ally of organized labor, rejected such
criticism. Kennedy, the chief Democratic architect of the bill, said temporary
foreign workers would "get the protections of the labor laws" and would be paid
at least the local prevailing wages.

Kyl said the program could expand or shrink in response to the demand for labor.

"Wouldn't it be better to have a temporary worker program, where everybody is
working within the law?" Kyl asked.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What should the immigration bill include? Talk about it in
Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A man works Tuesday on a fence dividing Nogales, Ariz., at right, and
Nogales, Mexico.  The Associated Press  PHOTO - U.S. Sens. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., and
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., talk with reporters outside the Senate chamber on
Tuesday. They are part of a bipartisan group of senators who brokered an
immigration deal with the White House.  AFP / Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration compromise collapses Sting for Bush o Bill was major domestic
priority.

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McClatchy Newspapers Ron Harris of the Post-Dispatch
Washington Bureau contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush suffered a devastating setback on his top domestic
priority Thursday as a broad immigration bill fell through in the Senate amid an
irreconcilable partisan standoff.

The 627-page bill was taken off the Senate floor at the end of a bitterly
contentious day that saw the bill's sponsors desperately trying to resolve
differences between Democrats and Republicans over GOP demands to offer
additional amendments.

Senators, for the second time in a span of hours, voted overwhelmingly Thursday
night against a motion to cut off debate, prompting Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, D-Nev., to pull the bill. But Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell, R-Ky., both declined to proclaim the bill dead and expressed hope of
resuming work on the bill if they find a way out of the deadlock.

The prospects for reviving and ultimately passing the bill appeared uncertain,
but supporters insisted it could be done.

"We're still open for business on this bill," said Sen. Arlen Specter of
Pennsylvania, a leading Republican supporter of the measure.

Crafted by a bipartisan group of senators after three months of negotiations
with the White House, the bill seeks to legalize millions of undocumented
immigrants, create a temporary guest worker program, toughen security along the
U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada, and crack down on employers who hire
illegal workers.

Bush, who has called for immigration changes since the outset of his presidency,
has aggressively committed his administration to passing the bill, even
criticizing Republicans who denounce it.

If the bill isn't revived, it would mark the president's second defeat on the
issue within the span of a year and would invite a political backlash in advance
of the 2008 presidential election.

Warnings surfaced throughout the day that the bill was in trouble after the
Senate, by a vote of 63-33, rejected an initial motion to shut off debate. The
second motion came hours later, at midevening, after a day of background
negotiations and calls to lawmakers from White House emissaries.

In the second test vote, 50 senators voted against a proposal to cut off debate,
with 45 supporting it. The vote was well below the 60-vote supermajority needed
for approval. Thirty-eight Republicans, 11 Democrats, and one independent voted
against the motion, while seven Republicans, 37 Democrats and one independent
voted for it.

Missouri Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond, a Republican, and Claire McCaskill, a
Democrat, voted against cutting off debate, while Illinois Sens. Dick Durbin and
Barack Obama, both Democrats, voted to end it.

Durbin said he and other Democratic leaders were disappointed at the inability
of Bush and Republican senators to rally their party around a bill that came
largely from Republicans.

"What we have seen is a parade of horribles, amendment after amendment offered
by Republicans who will never vote for this immigration bill, trying to
embarrass those who support it," Durbin said earlier Thursday.

McCaskill said a number of the bill's aspects bothered her. "As a former
auditor, I believe we should starve incompetent programs and not feed them," she
said. "We clearly know that the guest worker program is a path to illegal
immigration. So, I think we starve an incompetent government agency. We don't
feed it."

Reid had pressed for the motions to begin winding down debate and limiting an
onslaught of amendments that he claimed was aimed at killing the bill. The
majority leader, while stressing the importance of immigration legislation, said
the Senate had committed adequate time to the bill and needed to move on to
other issues.

Republicans agreed among themselves to vote against ending debate to press their
point that Democrats were bottling up needed amendments. In turn, Reid charged
that the Republicans were engaging in stalling tactics and said he would
withdraw the bill if the second vote to cut off debate failed.

"We need to have the record reflect that this bill isn't going anyplace, but
it's not our fault," Reid told fellow senators at midday Thursday.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What do you think of the how the Senate and the
administration have handled the immigration issue? Talk about it in Current
Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Illegal worker issue raised

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 847 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON


DEVELOPER CHALLENGED Officials demand records be provided to determine if
workers are legal.

LABORER QUESTIONED A worker said during a traffic stop that he is an illegal
immigrant.

---

City, St. Charles County and state officials want the developer of a
publicly-assisted housing project to provide its payroll records to show whether
all of its workers are legal.

A traffic stop of a laborer who may be an illegal immigrant triggered the
demand. The laborer was working for a project subcontractor.

Officials from O'Fallon, the St. Charles County Industrial Development Authority
and the Missouri Housing Development Commission aimed their demand at Hennessey
Development Inc. of Clayton. The company and its subcontractors are working on
the $20 million Southernside Apartment Complex at Highway 40 and Weldon Spring
Road.

Executives from Hennessey Development insist that its workers are legal.

"We can't afford to take that chance," owner Pete Hennessey said. "If there were
an issue, the feds would be all over it."

The incident marks the second time in less than two years in St. Charles County
that an affordable-housing project using state and federal incentives has come
under scrutiny for labor practices.

The 220-unit project is partly funded with $13.5 million in tax exempt bonds
approved by the St. Charles County Industrial Development Authority and state
and federal tax credits totaling more than $13 million over 10 years. The latter
total was awarded by the Missouri Housing Development Commission.

"I really hope it's not what it looks like," said Greg Prestemon, executive
director of the St. Charles County Economic Development Center, which
administers the Industrial Development Authority. "The IDA is sick of having
this kind of practice."

Hennessey said the state housing commission has been checking work eligibility
status of all of its employees on the site and said he's sure the employee
misunderstood the police officer's question. Both O'Fallon and local unions have
been upset about the project, which is not a 100 percent union project, he said.

Southernside is the company's first affordable housing project. Hennessey Inc.
specializes in luxury homes, and some moderate price in-fill housing. It has
also developed two office complexes and two golf course and clubhouses. The
company has no affiliation with O'Fallon's council president, Bill Hennessy.

On Tuesday, an O'Fallon police officer stopped the laborer just outside the work
site for a minor driving infraction. The driver lacked a license and told the
officer he was in the country illegally, working as a drywaller on the apartment
complex site for H & H Drywall of Oklahoma City, Administrator Robert Lowery Jr.
said. The officer made a "rookie mistake" and failed to arrest the man, Lowery
said.

Members of the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity,
who have been picketing nearby, learned of the man's illegal status from the
police officer and immediately made phone calls to various state and local
officials, Lowery said.

Tom Heinsz, director of organizing, said his union had been picketing the
construction site since late March because laborers on the site appeared to be
working seven-day shifts from sunlight to sunset.

The incident this week is similar to events at another publicly funded
affordable housing project in O'Fallon in the winter of 2006. In that case
several illegal workers with a subcontractor based in Texas were discovered
working on the O'Fallon Lakes apartment complex on the city's western border.
That project, spearheaded by Gundaker Commercial Group, was also awarded
millions in tax credits and tax exempt bonds.

At the time, state Treasurer Sarah Steelman, a housing development commission
member, said illegal labor practices on housing commission projects was
intolerable. The commission then enacted a variety of safeguards for future
contracts.

Steelman said she is reviewing the Southernside project.

"If there is a developer who is using ineligible workers, I don't think they
should be able to use state tax credits," she said. "We made it very clear in
our policies after the incident in O'Fallon in 2006."

Like O'Fallon Lakes, Southernside is intended to provide housing for service
employees at reduced rent. It is the first to be built along the rapidly growing
Highway 40 technology corridor and was intended to house workers for the new
Progress West HealthCare Center and a variety of corporate headquarters, Lowery
said.

Hennessey Inc. was the first developer to be awarded bonds by the Industrial
Development Authority after O'Fallon Lakes, and the developers are now subject
to payroll audits at the Industrial Authority's discretion, Prestemon said.

Lowery and Prestemon said those new regulations are hard to enforce and that the
city, county and state have no ability to do anything punitive to contractors
and developers who disregard labor laws and exploit illegal workers.

"Hennessey has not been cooperative with us," Lowery said. "Our requests to meet
with him and our requests for payroll records have gone unanswered."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Illegal immigration crackdown in works

BYLINE: By Eunice Moscoso Cox News Service The Associated Press contributed to
this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush's administration on Friday announced a broad crackdown
on illegal immigration, including increased fines or criminal prosecution for
companies that hire illegal workers.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez said they were stepping up enforcement of existing laws after Congress
failed to pass a comprehensive immigration-reform bill.

Administration officials said the new enforcement would begin in 30 days.

Under the rules, a company that ignores warning letters about employees with
potentially fake Social Security numbers could be fined up to $10,000 per
employee or face criminal prosecution.

Chertoff said that the fines would increase by about another 25 percent and that
the number of investigators would also go up.

"The magnet that brings most economic migrants into this country is work. And if
we have work-site enforcement directed at illegal employment, we strike at that
magnet," he said at a news conference.

Blames Congress

Bush said in a statement that the administration was acting after Congress
failed this year to pass a White House-backed measure that would have given
illegal immigrants a path to citizenship and created a guest worker program.

"Although the Congress has not addressed our broken immigration system by
passing comprehensive reform legislation, my administration will continue to
take every possible step to build upon the progress already made," he said.

In a session with Spanish-speaking reporters after the news conference,
Gutierrez said he hoped the enforcement measures would convince people that
broader immigration reform is necessary.

"There is no doubt that there are people suffering only because they want to
work," Gutierrez said. "The only solution is to reform the law."

Time Limit

The employer regulations allow a business 90 days to figure out why an
employee's Social Security number does not match the government database. The
reason could be a clerical error or a name change because of marriage.

However, if legal status can't be confirmed, the employee must be fired.

"These guidelines will make it more difficult for illegal aliens to use a
fraudulent Social Security number to get a job and will help employers take
appropriate action to protect themselves," Chertoff said.

Chertoff also announced that the Bush administration would eventually require
government contractors to use an employment system that helps them verify
whether an applicant or employee is in the United States legally. The system
will include a feature to let an employer check photos on an employee's
documents against images in Department of Homeland Security databases.

The system - named "E-Verify" - is now voluntary. Requiring contractors to use
it involves changing federal rules on contracting, which could take months,
Chertoff said.

The administration also announced several border enforcement measures, including
some that have been previously announced, such as a voluntary program to train
hundreds of state and local police officers to enforce immigration law.

The Department of Homeland Security also announced plans to reduce the number of
documents acceptable for employees to confirm a worker's identity, and to expand
the list of organized gangs from foreign countries to ensure their members are
not allowed in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Blunt sets state on trail of illegal immigrants THE PLAN o Random inspections at
some construction sites. o Governor wants state agents deputized to enforce
federal law.

BYLINE: By Mark Schlinkmann ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCHShane Anthony of the
Post-Dispatch staff contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, MO.


Random state inspections of some construction sites to look for illegal
immigrant workers and routine checks of the residency status of people arrested
by the Missouri Highway Patrol are part of new initiatives launched by Gov. Matt
Blunt.

"Illegal immigrants are openly breaking our laws," Blunt said at a news
conference Tuesday at O'Fallon City Hall. "Because Washington has failed to deal
with this issue, states must do even more."

The worksite inspections, by the state Department of Economic Development, will
be limited to privately developed projects benefiting from state tax credits or
other economic incentive programs.

Blunt said his directive also demands that such companies recertify in writing
within the next 30 days that they, their contractors and subcontractors do not
employ illegal immigrants.

Any company discovered to be using illegal immigrants will be banned for at
least five years from getting such state aid. That's the maximum penalty allowed
by state law, he said.

"With this measure and others, we will help to ensure that Missouri taxpayers
are not somehow subsidizing illegal immigration," Blunt said.

Blunt came to O'Fallon to announce the economic agency's new effort because the
city has had two controversies involving allegations of illegal immigrant
workers at construction projects aided by state and local bonds.

On Monday, the governor issued his separate order on arrests by the Highway
Patrol. That order also applies to the Missouri Water Patrol and the state
Capitol police.

Officers with those agencies have begun verifying the immigration status of
every person they arrest.

Blunt also has told the three state agencies to work out an agreement with the
federal government to allow officers to be deputized to directly enforce federal
immigration laws and to get special training. Only six other states have such an
arrangement, Blunt said.

Blunt added that he's asking federal officials for "expedited approval" of the
agreement, which would allow more than 1,000 state officers to take illegal
immigrants to federal detention centers instead of having to wait for federal
authorities to do so.

"This is a significant force multiplier for enforcing our immigration laws,"
Blunt said, noting that the state has only about 50 federal agents available for
such duty.

Blunt also is encouraging local law enforcement agencies to make similar
agreements with the federal government. St. Charles County Executive Steve
Ehlmann, who was at the news conference, said he and Sheriff Tom Neer already
were planning to do that.

In the most recent workplace controversy in O'Fallon, city officials allege that
Clayton-based developer Peter Hennessey is using subcontractors that employ
illegal immigrant workers on the construction of Southernside, a 210-unit
affordable-housing complex on Weldon Spring Road, just west of Highway K.

Hennessey denies the claim and has said the city is pushing a political agenda
because the site has nonunion and out-of-state workers.

Hennessey's project is supported by $13 million in state and federal tax credits
issued by the state Housing Development Commission and $13.5 million in
tax-exempt bonds approved by the St. Charles County Industrial Development
Authority.

St. Charles County Prosecutor Jack Banas has asked Hennessey for employment
records from Aug. 1, 2004, to the present. Hennessey's attorney, Larry Fleming,
filed a petition in circuit court Thursday saying the information request was
too broad. Both Fleming and Banas said they probably will meet soon to narrow
the scope of Banas' request.

Last week, the state housing commission, at Blunt's urging, said it would enact
tougher rules to guard against illegal workers on such projects. Blunt said
Tuesday his directive to the economic development department would supplement
whatever the housing commission enacts.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

In Jefferson City, illegal workers are the talk of the town

BYLINE: JO MANNIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 879 words


The same hour that Gov. Matt Blunt was holding a news conference Monday in his
state Capitol office decrying illegal immigration, state Treasurer Sarah
Steelman was holding court in the same building on the same subject.

She was appearing before a state Senate panel to make a pitch for stiffer laws
to punish developers who use illegal immigrants - either directly or via
subcontractors - on projects financed in part with state money. Steelman had
addressed a House panel the week before.

The governor, meanwhile, was announcing new directives that call for all law
enforcement agencies under his control - the state Highway Patrol, Water Patrol
and Capitol Police - to verify the immigration status of everyone they arrest.

On Tuesday in O'Fallon, and Wednesday in Kansas City, the governor held more
events to detail directives targeting those aforementioned developers who get
state tax breaks.

Among other things, Blunt said, the state Department of Economic Development is
to "conduct random on-site inspections" of such projects to document "the legal
status of all workers on the job."

In an interview Wednesday, Steelman praised Blunt's directives but said she'd
rather see tougher state laws on the matter. A spokeswoman for Blunt said he was
open to law changes.

Illegal immigration long has been a particularly hot issue for the Republican
base. And for at least a year, Steelman and Blunt have been highly visible
warriors - with similar views, but possibly different objectives.

Steelman headed the state Housing Development Commission last year when it took
a harder line against an O'Fallon developer caught with illegal-immigrant
workers. Blunt fired a private firm last spring caught using illegal immigrants
to clean state buildings. The governor also visited Missouri Guard troops during
last year's stint patrolling the U.S.-Mexico border.

But the Blunt-Steelman dueling events this week have whipped up state Capitol
activity on the illegal immigration front - and heightened political
speculation.

Steelman still isn't saying whether she'll seek re-election next year or might
challenge Blunt for the Republican nomination for governor. She begged off the
question when asked Wednesday, saying she was in a rush.

Democrats also are chiming in. A spokesman for state Attorney General Jay Nixon
- a Democrat challenging Blunt - said Wednesday that the governor's
administration has yet to refer for prosecution any cases involving businesses
that got state aid and used illegal immigrants.

The Republican-led state Legislature also is jumping in the fray.

Illegal immigration isn't supposed to be on the agenda for the special session
now under way. But some legislators are pressing for action this week on
anti-illegal immigration measures that failed to get much traction the last two
years.

Several were co-sponsored by state Sens. Tim Green, D-Spanish Lake, and Chris
Koster, D-Harrisonville (a Republican until last month). In the special session,
state Sen. Scott Rupp, R-St. Charles, is taking the lead.

Said Green: "I'm glad everybody's 100 percent pushing it right now, when six
months ago, I couldn't get it through."

The frenzy is concerning some business interests. Dan Mehan, president of the
Missouri Chamber of Commerce and Industry, says he applauds Blunt's directives
and embraces enforcement of current state laws. But Mehan cautions against any
swift legislative action to impose stiffer penalties on Missouri businesses
found hiring illegal immigrants.

"I don't think it's wise that the Legislature, in one day, try to fix ... a
monumental problem like the immigration issue, that some believe should be
resolved on the federal level," Mehan said.

The state Democratic Party contends that Blunt and the GOP are trying to divert
attention from former state Rep. Nathan Cooper, R-Cape Girardeau, an immigration
lawyer indicted in a scheme involving illegal truck drivers. Republicans deny
it.

The state Republican Party is accusing Nixon of being soft on illegals, and
cites a questionnaire he filled out a decade ago that the GOP says indicated
that he supported state benefits for illegal immigrants and their children. He
denies it.

The illegal immigration issue has even infected the partisan fight over the
vacancy on the state Supreme Court.

Last week, Blunt posted on his website the answers that the three finalists -
all lower-court judges - gave to his 111 questions. Question No. 38 asked each,
"Have you or your family every worked for companies or been affiliated with
organizations (non-profit or other) that employ or provide services to illegal
immigrants?"

All three finalists wrote that they had. The employer each cited: The state of
Missouri.

BLUNT CAMPAIGN HIRE NIXON TRACKER

Last week's column looked at campaign trackers following Blunt and Nixon, and
the mystery over who was paying the young man tracking Nixon.

Blunt's campaign spokesman was quoted denying that it had hired the Nixon
tracker. It turns out, Blunt's campaign was paying tracker Daniel Bell.

Blunt spokesman John Hancock said he was initially unaware of the payments.
Hancock emphasized that Bell's campaign duties involved more than just tracking
Nixon.

Bell is now back at college, and a new tracker is monitoring Nixon.

---

More political news: stltoday.com/politicalfix

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

McCaskill takes jabs at nominee

BYLINE: By Deirdre Shesgreen Post-dispatch washington bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Claire McCaskill said Wednesday she would likely oppose the president's top
immigration-enforcement nominee and blasted the Bush administration's poor
record of prosecuting employers who hire illegal workers.

McCaskill's remarks came during a testy exchange with Julie Myers, whom
President George W. Bush has nominated to be assistant secretary of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. Myers testified Wednesday before the Homeland Security
and Government Affairs committee.

McCaskill, D-Mo., was the lone committee member to take Myers to task,
questioning her competence and her willingness to go after rogue employers even
as other senators praised Myers and signaled their support for her.

Myers was first nominated in 2005, but senators then questioned her experience
and ability to do the job and balked at her confirmation. Bush installed her
anyway, with a recess appointment that has now expired.

McCaskill's ire focused on one question: "How many employers spent a day in jail
for hiring illegal immigrants?"

"I can't tell you," Myers replied. But the nominee staunchly defended the
agency, saying it had levied $30 million in fines and forfeitures on employers
so far this year, up from about $600,000 in 2006. She said part of the problem
was getting prosecutors to take cases against employers.

McCaskill said it was "outrageous" that Myers didn't have the information.

McCaskill noted that the agency's statistics indicated that there were 716
arrests last year. She asked Myers how many of those arrested were employers who
hired illegal employees and how many were illegal workers.

Myers again couldn't answer, conceding that the agency lumped the two together.

For example, Myers said the 716 arrests included five illegal immigrants who
were convicted after a raid on a chicken processing plant in southwest Missouri
in May. No employers have been charged yet in that raid, Myers said, but the
investigation is continuing.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Should Myers be approved for the immigration post? Talk
about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Apple company admits to illegal workers

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Greg Jonsson of the
Post-Dispatch staff contributed to this story.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 721 words


THE CHARGE A Franklin County apple company employed illegal workers for 5 years

THE PLEA Company will have to pay $599,000 as part of a deal.

---

A Franklin County apple company on Tuesday pleaded guilty to a criminal
immigration charge and agreed to pay $599,000 to settle federal charges that
they had employed dozens of illegal aliens for more than five years.

Lochirco Fruit and Produce, Inc., which does business as Happy Apples, admitted
employing illegal workers between 2001 and Oct. 19, 2006, when federal agents
raided the property and detained 33 immigrant workers.

The company grows apples and sells apples, apple cider and caramel apples and
has locations or facilities in or near Washington, Marthasville and Union, Mo.

Their caramel apples can be found in local and national supermarkets.

As part of the plea agreement, Happy Apples and officer Joette Reidy admitted to
a "pattern and practice" of "knowingly and intentionally" hiring unauthorized
alien workers.

Reidy, who pleaded guilty to one felony count of hiring illegal aliens, admitted
hiring at least 10 undocumented workers between Oct. 19, 2005 and Oct. 19, 2006.

Reidy, 40, is the daughter of one of the owners and will likely receive
probation when sentenced next year. Her husband, Ed Reidy, 42, represented the
company in court. The Reidys live in Washington.

Happy Apples, which pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count of hiring illegal
aliens, will have to pay a $99,000 fine and forfeit $500,000. "Obviously, you
can't put a company in jail," U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh said in
court.

Federal prosecutors were unaware of a higher fine and forfeiture total in an
immigration case here.

After the hearing, Joette Reidy's lawyer, Paul D'Agrosa and company lawyer
Richard Sindel said that the workers were treated well, paid more than the
minimum wage and housed in company lodging.

Even after the employees were detained by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement
pending removal, the company made sure they were paid, Sindel said.

D'Agrosa said that Happy Apples did not start out hiring illegals, but was
unable to hire American workers who were willing and reliable.

"We are sometimes forced to do things because of the realities on the ground.
American workers don't want these jobs," D'Agrosa said. "These are the realities
for agricultural businesses - all over the country."

But Assistant U.S. Attorney John Ware said that when federal agents searched the
property, they found at least 40 employment applications that had been filled
out by Americans.

They also found 33 illegal immigrants working the day shift alone. Those workers
have been removed from the country or will be removed, Ware said.

Ware said Happy Apples may have been able to find American workers, just not
ones willing to work the 12, 14, even 16-hour days worked by the illegal aliens.

The company is now participating in an approved Labor Department program, Ware
said.

Ware said the pay varied by job, but said it was roughly $6 or $7 an hour, with
$1 per hour bonus if the worker stayed the season, and said workers were not
treated poorly.

Illegal workers have increasingly become an issue on the state and national
level, as some frustrated state officials take their own measures to crack down
on employers.

ICE agents first learned of Happy Apples, however, when the Franklin County
Narcotics Enforcement Unit raided a Happy Apples house during a drug
investigation and found 15 illegal immigrants. Five said they worked for Happy
Apples, Sgt. Jason Grellner said. Grellner said many of the residents had fake
IDs good enough to fool local police.

An confidential informer then called Joette Reidy and asked for work, telling
her he didn't have "papers," court documents show. She referred him to her
secretary, who said she could get him papers for $150 and that he could live in
a Happy Apples house while he worked.

Some Marthasville residents said Tuesday night they don't ask about immigration
status when they're talking to people on the street, but the raid did not come
as a surprise given the number of Spanish-speaking workers in the area.

"Who else are you going to get for what they are paying them? They're not going
to get someone from around here to do it," said Marthasville resident Ed
Dickinson Tuesday night, speaking near one of the Happy Apples worker
residences.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Small business needs immigrant workers

BYLINE: By Ron Steidle

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F6

LENGTH: 689 words


With all the discussion of illegal immigration over the last several years, it's
not a surprise that many good citizens of this country see a Mexican on a lawn
mower and immediately assume that this worker is part of the problem.

More than likely, however, he or she may not be an illegal immigrant. In fact,
he's probably a participant in the H-2B program. H-2B is a legal guest worker
program whereby, through approval of the employee and the employer, a citizen of
Mexico can work in the United States for 10 months and must then return home for
two months.

For the last several years, seasonal companies like landscapers have worked
through the Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Labor Department and the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to obtain legal seasonal labor from
countries like Mexico.

Key to the certification process to obtain these legal workers is the
requirement to prove that no qualified American citizen wants the work. This is
done by placing classified ads for employment for at least three consecutive
days in the largest newspaper in a metropolitan area.

Job requirements and specifications are detailed in the classified ad, and
candidates are provided the necessary information to apply. Candidates are given
a reasonable time to respond. The company is required to screen the respondents,
hire them or provide valid reasons why they did not qualify.

Many small businesses face extinction if H.R. 1843 and S. 988 do not pass
Congress before the Christmas recess.

More than 700 small-business owners and top management from around the nation
visited Capitol Hill recently to explain the facts and plead with Congress not
to put us out of business.

The Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act expired on Sept. 30. A main
provision of this act is that legal returning workers from the previous year are
exempt from the 66,000 visa cap, which is nearly met for 2008.

In other words, rather than ensuring that our nation's businesses have access to
the workers we need, Congress will allow only 66,000 legal temporary workers
into the U.S. in 2008.

Seasonal employers who refuse to hire illegal aliens and can't find Americans to
do the work will shut down their businesses.

Congressional failure to pass the bill also could force many of these existing
legal temporary workers to become part of the illegal immigration problem. It
will force the layoffs of many American employees of these small businesses.

The economic impact of this disaster will reach into the hundreds of millions of
dollars.

Not only are high-paying American jobs at these seasonal companies threatened,
but high-paying jobs at auto plants, equipment manufacturers and supply
companies also are threatened. No good business owner makes capital purchases
when facing downsizing the business to keep a respectable level of customer
service.

This nation's political failure to retain the H-2B returning worker exemption
will have huge consequences for our economy. Our politicians should show
America's small businesses, and especially the Americans employed by them, the
same respect that these employers and employees have shown for the U.S. legal
system and for the legal, non-immigrant flow of workers.

This situation has now put in peril tens of thousands of America's most vibrant
small businesses. The landscape industry is just one example. Crab fishermen in
Maryland won't need to buy boats or fuel. The price of seafood in restaurants
will increase.

The demand for goods and services from U.S. citizens won't change. The price,
though, for these services will be much more because seasonal employers will
reach production capacity much quicker due to lack of legal staff to complete
the work.

If H.R. 1843 and S. 988 don't pass before the holiday break, many Midwesterners
will know it in mid-April of 2008. You'll look out the back window and see your
lawn 6 inches tall.

Don't blame the mowing company. Call a U.S. senator or representative. Maybe
they can find us the Americans willing to work temporary jobs. Or, better yet,
they can come by and cut the grass.

---

Ron Steidle owns Steidle Lawn & Landscape LLC in O'Fallon, Mo.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Commentary

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (Uncle Sam building a brick wall) The Fresno Bee

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Metro Digest NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 843 words


MISSOURI

Jefferson City

Nixon proposes immigration initiative

Attorney General Jay Nixon proposed Wednesday to penalize businesses that hire
illegal workers and permanently shut down those that repeatedly do so. The
proposal follows a series of initiatives targeting illegal immigrants by
Republican Gov. Matt Blunt, whom Nixon is challenging in next year's
gubernatorial election.

The attorney general said he is seeking new powers that would allow him to ask a
judge to impose an injunction barring a business that employs an illegal
immigrant from operating for a certain period of time. For second-time
offenders, Nixon wants to be able ask a court to permanently bar them from doing
business in Missouri. Nixon said his proposal is modeled after a new Arizona
law.

Blunt spokesman Rich Chrismer said Nixon was reacting to Blunt's proposals and
that Blunt also supports provisions of the Arizona law.

St. Louis County

Group targets trash district authority

CLAYTON - A group opposing trash collection districts in unincorporated St.
Louis County will begin a petition drive early next year to remove the county's
authority to set up the districts and reduce minimum trash collection standards.

Tony Niskanen, a leader of Make Your Opinion Count LLC, on Tuesday told the
County Council of his group's plans.

The group's proposal is two initiatives, one to remove from the Waste Management
Code the authority for trash collection districts, and a second to change the
code's minimum collection standards. The second initiative would require haulers
to offer collection of recyclables every other week instead of once a week and
would drop a requirement for bulky trash pickups.

The group will need about 19,000 signatures on petitions to put the initiatives
on the April 8 ballot. The deadline is Jan. 29.

City gives initial OK on Target funding

ROCK HILL - Aldermen on Tuesday approved a preliminary funding agreement with
Hutkin Properties Group/Rock Hill LLC and Miller Weingarten Realty LLC that will
allow construction of a Target store on the northwest corner of Manchester and
McKnight roads.

Aldermen also agreed to increase the tax increment financing available for the
parcel to $26 million from the original $18 million, as recommended by the city
tax increment financing commission.

The city has terminated its redevelopment agreement for the site with Novus
Development Co. Novus is finishing a retail project on the southwest corner of
the intersection.

A resident, Bill Heger, opposed the new agreement, noting that Novus hasn't
filled its space on the southwest side and that there are two Targets within a
few miles of Rock Hill. A Novus representative said two more tenants have signed
on and negotiations continue.

New bar and grill wins approval

WEBSTER GROVES - The City Council approved a permit Tuesday for a restaurant,
Donahue's Corner Bar and Grill, at 35 North Gore Avenue.

The owners are Curt and Courtney Cooper. The establishment will have 170 indoor
seats and 60 outdoor seats. There will be no outdoor speakers to amplify music.
The owners hope to open during the first week in January.

The council also voted to prohibit left turns onto Gore from West Lockwood
Avenue from 4 to 6 p.m. weekdays and approved a development plan for Chase and
Co. to rehab commercial buildings at l07, 111, and 125 West Pacific Avenue.

St. Charles County

Ordinance targets online harassment

ST. CHARLES - St. Charles is the fourth area community to adopt a local
ordinance barring online harassment.

The City Council voted 10-0 Tuesday night for the measure, sponsored by Larry
Muench, 2nd Ward. It is a response to the suicide last year of Megan Meier, a
13-year-old from Dardenne Prairie who received hurtful messages online. St.
Charles joins Dardenne Prairie, St. Charles County and Florissant in passing
such measures.

The St. Charles council also passed a $97 million operating budget for next year
and a $102,000 contract with recently appointed Police Chief Dennis Corley.

Casino donates coins from fountain

ST. CHARLES - About 800 pounds of coins pulled from the fountain in front of the
Ameristar Casino in St. Charles were donated on Wednesday to the Make-A-Wish
Foundation of Missouri.

The money collected in the fountain is from people tossing change into it during
the past five years. The coins, which must be cleaned before there can be an
accurate count, were estimated to be worth thousands of dollars.

ILLINOIS

St. Clair County

City takes issue with street condition

FAIRVIEW HEIGHTS - The City Council approved a motion Tuesday asking the mayor
to write a letter of condemnation to the Illinois Department of Transportation
over what has been called a "quarter century of neglect" of St. Clair Avenue.

Alderman Warren Baker said the median that runs along the street from Illinois
Route 157 to Bunkum Road is in disrepair and presents a hazard to drivers. He
said the median is not very wide and has been the scene of 42 accidents, two of
them fatal.

The state is responsible for maintenance of the street, which runs from East St.
Louis to Fairview Heights.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 21, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Firm is accused in tax scheme Southernside Subcontractor from Oklahoma failed to
withhold state taxes of workers at O'Fallon, Mo., site, charges say.

BYLINE: By Mark Schlinkmann ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, Mo.


A drywall company was charged Thursday with failing to withhold state taxes from
workers' paychecks at a construction site linked by city and union officials to
illegal immigrant labor.

Attorney General Jay Nixon and St. Charles County Prosecutor Jack Banas jointly
filed charges against H & H Drywall Specialties Inc., of Tulsa, Okla., a
subcontractor on the Southernside apartment complex going up in O'Fallon.

H & H is accused of inaccurately listing employees as independent contractors to
avoid sending withholding tax to the state, Nixon's office said.

According to court records, an investigator for Nixon said more than 20 bogus
Social Security numbers for workers at the site, at 6720 Weldon Spring Road,
were on federal forms submitted to verify their identity and legal status. Some
numbers matched those of people who are dead.

The investigator determined that H & H paid wages to about 27 workers at
Southernside between Dec. 27 of last year and June 30 but listed most as
subcontractors. Taxes were withheld and sent to the state for only a few of the
workers, the investigator said.

H & H officials could not be reached for comment Thursday on the case, a mix of
felony and misdemeanor charges filed in St. Charles County Circuit Court.

"When an employer hires undocumented workers, he takes jobs away from
hardworking residents of our state and encourages more undocumented workers to
come to Missouri," Nixon said.

The charges filed Thursday are limited to the tax issue and do not accuse H & H
or any worker of violating immigration law.

However, Nixon spokesman John Fougere said his office has reason to believe that
illegal immigrants did work at the site and has turned over information to
federal authorities, which he said has jurisdiction over such matters.

Officials with the U.S. attorney's office in St. Louis and U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement said they could not comment on whether they are
investigating.

Records indicate that the state-county probe began after a 25-year-old man told
O'Fallon police last June that he was in the country illegally and was working
at Southernside.

The man had been stopped and ticketed for having no drivers license or proof of
insurance and failing to keep to the right.

Court records indicate he was found to be among those listed as an H & H
subcontractor and on a form with a dead person's Social Security number.

Authorities also looked into a report submitted by an Ellisville detective
agency and funded by the carpenters union that alleged more than 30 inaccurate
Social Security numbers were listed on forms for workers at the site.

The lead contractor at Southernside, Pete Hennessey of Clayton, could not be
reached for comment Thursday on the tax charges against the subcontractor. In
past interviews he has adamantly denied that illegal immigrants worked at the
site. Banas said the investigation related to Southernside is ongoing.

O'Fallon Mayor Donna Morrow and City Administrator Robert Lowery Jr. applauded
the filing of the charges.

"I think this proves exactly what we said was going on," Morrow said.

Southernside is partly funded by more than $13 million in state and federal tax
credits and $13.5 million in tax-exempt bonds issued by a county authority. The
220-unit development is designed to provide affordable housing.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES' POSTIONS ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 615 words


DEMOCRATS

HILLARY CLINTON

THE BORDERS Employ technology to reduce unauthorized crossings.

CITIZENSHIP Allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship.

EMPLOYMENT Prohibit guest-worker programs. Increase enforcement of laws barring
companies from hiring illegal immigrants. Create an information system for
prospective employers.

JOHN EDWARDS

THE BORDERS Double the number of border agents; install surveillance equipment.

CITIZENSHIP Allow illegal immigrants to earn citizenship by paying a fine,
passing background checks and learning English.

EMPLOYMENT Prohibit guest-worker programs. Increase penalties for businesses
that knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

DENNIS KUCINICH

THE BORDERS Ban use of National Guard troops or other military forces to patrol
the border.

CITIZENSHIP Provide permanent residence to immigrants who have lived here more
than five years, and grant conditional status and work rights to those who have
been here for less time.

EMPLOYMENT Strengthen anti-discriminatory workplace laws and end penalties
against companies that hire illegal immigrants.

BARACK OBAMA

THE BORDERS Hire more border guards, employ technology and build more
"infrastructure."

CITIZENSHIP Allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship after passing
background checks, paying fines and having their cases reviewed after pending
applications by legal immigrants.

EMPLOYMENT Increase enforcement against companies that hire illegal immigrants,
although he considers raids upon suspect workplaces "ineffective."

REPUBLICANS

RUDY GIULIANI

THE BORDERS Build more fences and hire more border agents.

CITIZENSHIP Require all immigrants who seek citizenship to be able to speak,
read and write English. Deport those who have "abused their privilege" of being
in the U.S.

EMPLOYMENT Require noncitizens to carry tamper-proof ID cards for employment.
Consolidate databases for quick verification of an applicant's status.

MIKE HUCKABEE

THE BORDERS Build a fence with a surveillance system along the border with
Mexico by 2010. Hire more border agents.

CITIZENSHIP Require illegal immigrants to leave within 120 days and to apply for
citizenship from their home countries.

EMPLOYMENT Require verification of citizenship as a condition of employment.
Impose steep fines for companies that violate the law.

JOHN MCCAIN

THE BORDER Build more fence and hire more patrol agents.

CITIZENSHIP Grant temporary status to most illegal immigrants and allow them to
apply for citizenship after paying fines and passing background checks.

EMPLOYMENT Permit a temporary worker program. Enforce laws against hiring
illegal immigrants.

RON PAUL

THE BORDER "Physically secure" the border.

CITIZENSHIP Deport illegal immigrants and offer them no special avenue toward
citizenship. End the automatic citizenship of children born here to illegal
immigrants.

EMPLOYMENT Abolish the NAFTA trade agreement.

MITT ROMNEY

THE BORDER Build a fence along the border with Mexico. Require noncitizens to
carry tamper-proof ID cards.

CITIZENSHIP Prohibit any "special pathway" for citizenship to anyone who is in
the country illegally. Recruit skilled workers from other countries and allow
them to apply for citizenship.

EMPLOYMENT Increase penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants. Set up a
national database for employers to verify the status of job applicants.

FRED THOMPSON

THE BORDER Build more fences and use technology to enhance detection.

CITIZENSHIP Give no amnesty or probationary status to illegal immigrants.
Streamline applications for legal immigrants. Make English the official language
of the U.S.

EMPLOYMENT Require all employers to use federal information to verify the status
of job applicants and track the locations of temporary-visa holders.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - HILLARY CLINTON  PHOTO - JOHN EDWARDS  PHOTO - PHOTO - DENNIS KUCINICH
PHOTO - BARACK OBAMA  PHOTO - RUDY GIULIANI  PHOTO - MIKE HUCKABEE  PHOTO - JOHN
MCCAIN  PHOTO - RON PAUL  PHOTO - MITT ROMNEY   PHOTO - FRED THOMPSON  MAP -
POPULATION OF HISPANIC HERITAGE Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 6, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Steelman criticized for TV ad on illegal immigrant workers

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C10

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Republican gubernatorial candidate Sarah Steelman has stopped airing a TV ad
touting her actions against a construction company that hired illegal immigrants
- just as Democrats intensified their criticism of it.

A Steelman spokesman said Thursday that the ad ended only because its paid time
expired.

But the Missouri Democratic Party claimed Thursday that Steelman's ad falsely
asserted she had blocked state tax credits to a company that hired illegal
immigrants.

At issue is the O'Fallon Lakes housing project, funded partly with tax breaks
from the Missouri Housing Development Commission, of which Steelman previously
was chairwoman.

After illegal immigrants were discovered there in February 2006, Steelman issued
a news release criticizing the lead contractor, Ohio-based NRP, as well as its
partners on the project - Related Capital, of New York, and the Gundaker
Commercial Group, of Chesterfield.

"The use of illegal aliens is inexcusable and will not be tolerated," Steelman,
the state treasurer, said in the Feb. 16, 2006, release. "This practice is going
to stop. The state will not do business with developers who think they can rip
off the taxpayers and workers of Missouri."

Gundaker essentially shut down the work site and later took over as the general
contractor, using union workers to finish the project. That resulted in a higher
cost than originally expected.

Last December, the Missouri Housing Development Commission - of which Steelman
no longer was chairwoman but remains a member - awarded additional tax credits
to the affordable-housing project. As a result, the development can receive a
total of nearly $10.7 million in federal tax credits and nearly $8.9 million in
state tax credits spread over 10 years.

In Steelman's gubernatorial campaign ad, an announcer declares: "When a company
on a state building project hired illegal immigrants with criminal violations,
Sarah Steelman blocked state tax credits, forced the company off the job,
replacing illegal workers with new Missouri jobs."

The Missouri Democratic Party claimed Thursday that Steelman had received about
$20,000 in campaign contributions from people and entities associated with
Gundaker and contended the ad was false because Gundaker did receive tax
credits.

Steelman's Republican gubernatorial opponent, U.S. Rep. Kenny Hulshof, added to
the criticism.

"It appears we have another Steelman stumble," Hulshof spokesman Scott Baker
said. "She's been caught taking money from the very company she claims to be
targeting for employing illegal immigrants. This is the definition of
hypocrisy."

Steelman's campaign defended the ad, denied it was pulled because of controversy
and denied any hypocrisy. Steelman stood up against the lead contractor at the
time the immigrants were hired, and Gundaker later stepped up to finish the job
with Missouri workers, her campaign said.

The ad "is 100 percent accurate. We stand by everything in the ad," Steelman
spokesman Spence Jackson said. "The cycle for this exceptional ad is complete,
and that is the only reason it is not running."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Union resented illegal immigrant workers at plant

BYLINE: By Holbrook Mohr The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: LAUREL, Miss.


Union bosses in this region of rural Mississippi have long grumbled that the
largest factories here hire illegal immigrants.

Friction between the union and immigrant workers, along with a tipoff at an
electrical manufacturing plant, boiled over this week into an immigration raid
at a Howard Industries plant.

When the first of the 595 suspected illegal immigrants was taken into custody
Monday, some fellow workers broke into applause.

In interviews with The Associated Press, union members said immigrants were
often allowed to work as much as 40 hours of overtime a week when other workers
were discouraged from doing so. All declined to give their names, saying they
feared for their jobs.

Robert Shaffer, head of the Mississippi AFL-CIO, said Wednesday that members
have long complained about illegal immigrants in southern Mississippi.

"Jackson, Hattiesburg, Laurel and all areas along the coast, it's a little
Mexico," Shaffer said. "I'm not against people trying to make a living. I have a
compassion for those folks. But at the same time, the taxpayers of Mississippi
shouldn't be subsidizing a plant that won't even hire their own workers."

In 2002, Mississippi lawmakers approved a $31.5 million, taxpayer-backed
incentive plan for Howard Industries to expand. The company, with 4,000 workers,
is the largest employer in Jones County, which includes Laurel.

On Wednesday, hundreds of people lined up outside the plant to apply for jobs as
news of the raid spread. The unemployment rate in Jones County was 6.5 percent
in July.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Court to determine limits of identify theft Undocumented workers often don't
know their phony numbers actually belong to real people.

BYLINE: By Mark Sherman The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 455 words


The Supreme Court is taking a look at federal prosecutors' efforts to pin
identity theft charges on undocumented foreign workers who have Social Security
and identification numbers that belong to others.

The government has used the charges - with the possibility of prison time - to
persuade people to plead guilty of lesser immigration violations. In other
cases, defendants have been convicted of "aggravated identity theft," even
without proof that they knew their phony ID numbers belonged to real people.

The issue has divided federal appeals courts around the country, and the
justices said Monday that they will resolve the issue after hearing arguments
next year.

The central question is whether the defendant must know that the counterfeit
identification belongs to someone else. Federal prosecutors have increasingly
been bringing the more serious identity theft charges against undocumented
immigrants, including many who were arrested in raids on meatpacking plants.

Defense lawyers have argued that their clients should not be charged with
stealing an identity because the immigrants were seeking documentation only to
allow them to work. They didn't know if the numbers were fictitious or belonged
to someone else, their lawyers say.

"When a person makes up a Social Security number, having no idea whether it
belongs to someone else, it is hard to see how that conduct qualifies as 'theft'
- much less 'aggravated theft,'" said the lawyers for Ignacio Carlos
Flores-Figueroa, a Mexican national who was convicted of the crime.

President George W. Bush's administration, however, contends the conviction was
justified under a provision of federal law that makes it a crime to "knowingly"
use a means of identification of another person.

The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, based in St. Louis, agreed with the
administration and upheld Flores-Figueroa's conviction.

He worked at a steel plant in East Moline, Ill., since 2000. Originally, he
worked there under an assumed name, false Social Security and alien registration
numbers. In 2006, he told his employer he wanted to be known by his real name
and submitted new identification documents. This time, though, the Social
Security number belonged to someone else, and his green card number was that of
yet another person. Suspicious, the employer contacted immigration authorities,
who arrested Flores-Figueroa.

The five-count indictment against him included two counts of aggravated identity
theft. A judge added two years to Flores-Figueroa's sentence.

Federal appeals courts based in Atlanta and Richmond, Va., also have ruled in
the government's favor in similar cases, while the appeals courts based in
Boston, San Francisco and Washington have sided with defendants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Marriages may be more sham than love

BYLINE: By Giovanna Dell'Orto THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


When a woman recently asked for a copy of her marriage license, the court clerk
in suburban Atlanta's Gwinnett County had to break some unpleasant news: Her
husband was listed as the groom in eight marriages in the county.

The husband was later arrested in September on suspicion of bigamy, days after
another man was charged in the same county with similar offenses. Two weeks
later, a woman from nearby Decatur was charged with marrying six men in less
than two years without dissolving her first marriage.

Federal immigration authorities are investigating whether the three defendants
were part of a sham-marriage ring aimed at helping immigrants from Africa obtain
their green cards or permanent U.S. residency.

Immigration officials and prosecutors say phony green-card marriages are a
common and growing crime, and they are cracking down.

"It took (on) much more significance after 9/11," said Martin Ficke, agent in
charge of the New York City office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "With
a real green card, you get a lot more access. It's a major priority for ICE."

If the three defendants were part of a green-card scheme, that would not
surprise Gwinnett County Probate Court Chief Clerk Marlene Duwell, who has seen
plenty of suspicious things.

Duwell said she had witnessed couples who couldn't converse with each other
because of a language barrier, and marriage-license applicants who did not know
their future spouses' last names or places of birth. Clerks report their
suspicions to police, which was what happened in the case of the man with eight
wives.

Immigration officials focus on sophisticated moneymaking rings, not individuals
doing someone else a favor, as in the 1990 romantic comedy "Green Card." In the
movie, a Frenchman who wants a green card and a New Yorker who wants an
apartment get married, only to fall in love.

Over the past year, authorities have broken green-card marriage rings from coast
to coast that made millions of dollars by providing spouses and fake documents
to foreigners.

About one in five of the 3,494 identity and benefit fraud cases Immigration and
Customs Enforcement investigated in fiscal year 2005 were marriage fraud, said
agency spokesman Marc Raimondi. He said arrest figures were not immediately
available.

However, authorities said arrests were on the rise, partly because immigration
officials over the past three years have formed task forces focused on fraud.

By marrying an American citizen, foreigners can gain the right to stay and work
in this country.

Although the process is long and expensive at about $5,000, it is, in many
cases, easier than getting a green card through an employer. Nearly 260,000
spouses of U.S. citizens became permanent residents last year, up from fewer
than 185,000 in 2003, according to the government.

Two especially large rings were broken up over the summer in Utah's Salt Lake
County and New York City. In New York, a former immigration officer and his
sister are accused of making more than $1 million over four years by providing
hundreds of fake marriage documents and paying U.S. citizens to enter into sham
marriages with foreigners.

In Utah, 24 people -- most of them naturalized U.S. citizens from Vietnam --
were charged with paying at least 46 U.S. citizens as much as $10,000 each to
travel to Vietnam to marry Vietnamese people. The foreigners were charged
$30,000 each.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 1594 words


Police should fight crime, not enforce immigration

People have been critical of Metropolitan Congregations United's proposal to
make the city more friendly to immigrants, regardless of their status
("Religious group wants law on immigrants' side," Oct. 30). Most arguments
against us are focused on illegal immigrants, with an underlying assertion that
they are a main factor in St. Louis being labeled the most dangerous city in the
United States.

MCU does not want laws to be overlooked or weakened. We do not believe that
certain people are above the law. MCU believes that it is the job of the federal
government to fix our broken immigration system. We want an ordinance enacted
that sends this message. Local police officers should not be overburdened with
the job of federal immigration authorities. Our law enforcement resources
already are spread thin.

Beyond this, we celebrate the diversity in the city and know that immigrants
have been a big part of the city's renaissance. Where would our
no-longer-declining population be without our immigrant neighbors?

Ordinances similar to the one MCU is proposing have been enacted in more than 50
cities and counties. The ordinance would not interfere with state or federal
immigration policies. The ordinance would uphold the role of local enforcement
and city agencies to protect equally all people who live permanently or
temporarily within city and/or county limits. It would allow any person living
in the city equal access to get married or apply for a business license.

We believe every person deserves to be treated with dignity and respect,
regardless of his immigration status.

Jim Sahaida | St. Louis Cabinet member, Metropolitan Congregations United

Ban intact dogs, not breeds

Regarding "Worry over bully breeds, bad dogs is overblown, experts say" (Nov.
4): The single most important action that cities can take to reduce dangerous
dogs is to ban intact dogs (dogs that are not spayed or neutered) from their
city and require dogs kept as pets to be spayed and neutered.

Intact male dogs are responsible for the vast majority of vicious and
unrelenting dog bites. Sometimes intact females in estrus (in season) or with
puppies can be dangerous, too. Of human deaths from dogs bites, at least 99
percent involve intact male dogs. The data is overwhelming. It is beyond my
comprehension why governments do not take actions to ban intact dogs in their
cities. It does not matter what size the dog is. A few years ago in Los Angeles,
a Pomeranian killed a newborn child.

Not all intact dogs are dangerous. But since children are the most likely to be
harmed by dangerous dogs, families should not keep intact male dogs as pets.
Intact dogs are breeding animals. Most intact male dogs, like stallions and
bulls, because of hormonal influence, exhibit a very high level of dominance and
territorial behavior, which often results in very aggressive behavior. Intact
dogs do not make better pets. If a dog owner wants to have an intact dog, he
should have appropriate breeder and business licenses and secure enclosures.

It just is not worth the risk to have intact dogs as pets. Philip Wagenknecht |
St. Louis

Hadley: 100 and out

Regarding "After 100 years of history ... Richmond Heights neighborhood gives
way to development" (Nov. 7): What a shame. Hadley Township has existed for 99
years, but now will be demolished for $190 million worth of money-making
"mixed-use" development.

If we lived in a republic, as our founders envisioned, this would not be
happening. Unfortunately, the United States has willfully slipped into
democracy, where the majority rules without the restraining arm of the law. In a
democracy, people are not secure, nor are they served by their government. They
are ruled by it.

Hadley Township has existed since 1907, but soon will be just a memory. This is
America, and this is democracy.

Moira Burkhart | St. Louis

Anguished over story on international adoption

The story "Guatemala's adoption business has critics calling it a baby farm"
(Nov. 5) contains allegations and inaccurate information. We are parents through
adoption from Guatemala. Our situation was different from what was portrayed.
Birth mothers could not be paid to relinquish their children. Guatemalan laws
make it illegal to coerce a birth mother into relinquishment, and these laws are
enforced through the adoption process. The adoption process is long and complex
and involves numerous reviews by multiple agencies in the United States and
Guatemala to ensure that legal requirements are met.

The story omitted many facts about Guatemalan adoptions. For example, cases must
be reviewed and approved by the Guatemalan Family Court system. This involves an
interview of the birth mother by a court-appointed social worker. After Family
Court approval, the case must be reviewed and approved by an agency of the
Guatemalan government. Each case is submitted to the U.S. Embassy for review and
approval and further investigation if deemed necessary.

The existing adoption system could be improved, and we welcome those
improvements. However, this story distorted facts. We also were offended by the
use of the terms "commodity" and "baby farm" to refer to human beings such as
our son.

Julie and David DiFranco | St. Louis County

If it ain't broke ...

Despite the fact that it didn't work the first time around, the president has
announced another plan to "fix" Social Security. If this "fix" is anything like
his first try at Social Security or his Medicare Part D disaster or his
so-called efforts to "save" our private pension funds or the alleged bankruptcy
reforms, we had better watch out. The one thing that this president is really
good at is poor planning. Just ask a general.

Steve Stegen | O'Fallon, Mo.

Don't forget the issues

Before Senator-elect Claire McCaskill gloats too much and U.S. Sen. Jim Talent
laments too much, both should remember the 65,000 people who voted for the third
choice. I was so sick of hearing Ms. McCaskill and Mr. Talent bash each other
for weeks on end that I concluded neither one was worthy of my vote. I'm sorry
that the winner had to be either one.

I hope the next election will be better. I want to hear the candidates talk
about the issues and not about each other.

Annie Pick | Chesterfield

Moving in the middle

Having read letters from the jubilant left and listened to the dejected right
after election day, I'd like to bring everyone back to reality. This election
moved in the middle. The moderate voter finally had had enough of the Iraq war
and tipped power to the Democrats.

For six years, Democrats have been complaining or obstructing Republican action.
Now, with a slim margin, Democrats must show that they can work with those
across the aisle and truly compromise in the best interests of both parties. If
they can form a coherent exit strategy for Iraq, they can win big in 2008.

For Republicans, this is a warning. President George W. Bush was billed as
compassionate and a "uniter not a divider." After Sept. 11, 2001, we united
briefly, but Iraq divided the nation and the parties. Iraq is complex, and an
exit strategy must be developed. If the Republicans can focus their energy on
traditional conservative policies (low taxes/low spending) and devise and
implement an effective withdrawal, they will hold the White House and retake
Congress.

The key is that neither party can become cocky or indignant, and that a solid
plan for Iraq must be developed. The middle put both parties in the situations
they are in and want the parties to work together for the betterment of the
nation, not the implementation of far-left or far-right agendas. The 2008
presidential election hangs in the balance.

Ryan C. Johnston | Ballwin

Market forces

Dealing with the problem of how smoking affects non-smokers is tricky.
Restaurant and bar owners demand to decide whether the toxic substances should
be allowed in their establishments, and people objected to the tax.

Maybe the best way to deal with the problem is to assert the government's right
to regulate addictive drugs. Leave taxes alone. Leave the smokers alone in bars
and restaurants. Just do not allow the sale or distribution of tobacco products
that contain nicotine.

Take away the marketing tool of the addictive drug in cigarettes, and let the
forces of the marketplace prevail.

Joe Prichard | Festus

Aggressive against abuse

Because of a technicality, an abusive priest facing at least four accusers now
is free ("Priest's sodomy conviction is reversed," Nov. 8). The silver lining is
that the conviction of the Rev. Thomas Graham proves that where there's a will,
there's a way. When confronted with older child sex crimes, many prosecutors
take the easy way out, citing statutes of limitations. But in this case, Circuit
Attorney Jennifer Joyce and her staff dug deep and found a little-known law and
took a chance. They won several lower-court rulings, though they lost at the
Supreme Court. We appreciate the city prosecutor's creative and aggressive
approach. We're also grateful that Jefferson County's prosecutor, using the same
approach, filed similar criminal charges against the Rev. Robert Johnston,
although those charges now may have to be dropped.

The public should know who takes child molestation seriously. Citizens in St.
Louis city and in Jefferson County should feel proud that their prosecutors are
aggressive when it comes to pursuing sex offenders, even those with exalted
titles and even those who molested years ago.

Barbara Dorris | St. Louis Outreach director, Survivors Network of those Abused
by Priests

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Georgia state senator's wife faces deportation to Colombia She is in hiding, and
her husband and lawyer say they don't know her wherebouts.

BYLINE: By Giovanna Dell'orto THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


State Sen. Curt Thompson has been a strong advocate of immigration rights, once
speaking in Spanish from the steps of the Georgia Capitol against the adoption
of some of the nation's strictest immigration controls.

Now Thompson's Colombian-born wife is in hiding as federal immigration officials
try to deport her.

Sascha Herrera, 28, has been in hiding since Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officers arrived at her home Nov. 28 with an order to remove her from the U.S.
She was not home at the time.

Her attorney, Charles Kuck, claims she was duped by a man handling her
immigration requests (a notario) and that her deportation order is a clerical
error. He says neither he nor her husband know where Herrera is.

Kuck plans to file a petition to reopen her deportation case, arguing that a man
she had sought help from filed an asylum petition on her behalf without her
knowledge and before her husband sponsored her green card application based on
their marriage in April.

The deportation order stems from Herrera's repeated failure to appear before a
judge on the asylum application, which Kuck said she did not know had been
filed.

The case hinges on whether Herrera received a notice to appear in court, and
whether the asylum application could have been filed without her knowledge, said
Victor Cerda, former general counsel for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

She met Thompson last year and they got married in April, when he applied for
her to become a permanent resident. She had held a student visa at the time,
after coming to the United States on a visitor visa.

Cerda said the deportation order in the asylum case would trump any pending
green card application and trigger mandatory detention.

According to Kuck, Herrera came to the U.S. - where her parents have been living
- on a visitor visa in early 2003. She applied for an extension to the visa
through a "notario" - a man who claimed he was qualified to handle legal
immigration matters - but did not get it until 20 days before the extension was
due to expire.

The notario then suggested an asylum application, which Herrera signed, but she
got a "bad vibe" from the man and decided not to proceed, Kuck said.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Most lack counsel in immigration courtroom hearings

BYLINE: By Karin Brulliard The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Shortly after 9 a.m., all rose.

The judge took his seat. People whispering in various languages spilled out of
the cramped courtroom at the federal immigration court in Arlington County, Va.,
waiting for their chance to fight to stay in the United States, agree to leave
or be deported.

Salvadoran Roxana Velasco sat alone in the waiting room. Like several other
people that morning, she had no attorney.

"The judge said I have to have a lawyer or I have to represent myself," said
Velasco, 30, recalling her first hearing in October. "How am I going to do
that?"

In immigration courts, there are judges and prosecutors, evidence and witnesses.
The consequences can be great: banishment, separation from family, perhaps
persecution at home.

But unlike in criminal courts, the government does not provide free lawyers for
the poor. And in what court officials deem a great concern, a growing number of
people in immigration court have no legal counsel: Of more than 314,000 people
whose cases ran their course in the 2005 fiscal year, two-thirds went through on
their own.

That leaves respondents to navigate immigration law, the judges to walk them
through it and, critics say, the courts to operate sluggishly and deport
thousands unfairly.

Velasco was caught by federal border police after slipping across the Rio Grande
a year ago. She said she immigrated illegally to be with her husband, who lives
in Washington. The judge asked Velasco if she had found a lawyer. She said no.
He gave her four months to leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Stricter law blocks lifelong resident 73-year-old Rolla woman is caught in web
of tougher immigration laws

BYLINE: By Phillip O'Connor ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: Rolla, MO.


In her 73 years, Yvonne Hughes never thought much about her citizenship.

"I've always voted,'' said Hughes, a great-grandmother with a fluffy crown of
white hair. "Whenever I see a parade and the American flag, I get tears in my
eyes. I know 'The Star-Spangled Banner.' I don't think about these things. Do
you think about how American you are? It's just something you take for granted."

At least, she did until April 2005, when she received her motor vehicle license
renewal application.

"On the back side it said if you weren't born in the United States, you needed
to show proof of citizenship,'' she recalled. "Well, you could have knocked me
over with a feather because I didn't have such a thing."

Call her an innocent victim of tougher border enforcement and immigration laws
in the post-9/11 era. Hers is a rare case - someone in the country so long with
none of the documents required to prove she's a citizen. She eventually got the
license, but still she worries about not having the paperwork to prove she
belongs here. She's been told not to vote until the situation is cleared up.

Seated at her kitchen table on a recent morning, Hughes said family members
tease her about getting deported.

"It has been humorous, but when I get serious and think about it, it's scary,''
she said. "I'm kind of desperate to do whatever it takes. I don't want to go on
this way, waiting and waiting and not knowing where I stand. I'm not confident."

Hughes' parents immigrated to the United States in 1927. Her mother returned to
Sweden to give birth to Hughes in 1933, and they both returned to the United
States when Hughes was 4 months old.

Her mother passed away in 1942 when Hughes was 9. Her father was granted
citizenship that same year.

"He told me I was considered a citizen because he had been a citizen over most
of my life,'' she said.

When she got older and applied for jobs and registered to vote she showed her
birth certificate and the Swedish ship's register papers that showed her date of
arrival in the United States.

"Nobody ever questioned it,'' she said. "I never had any trouble."

That includes when she applied for a position with the FBI.

"I didn't get the job, but I'm pretty sure it wasn't because of that,'' she
said.

She married, had three kids, worked, paid taxes. She never left the country.

Her husband, Robert, died in 2004.

Unsure what to do about the license, Hughes signed up for an interview with an
immigration official to obtain a certificate of citizenship. They met in August
at the Robert A. Young Federal Building in St. Louis.

Hughes brought her birth certificate, the ship's register papers and other
documents she thought would prove her case for citizenship.

She left without it.

The government wanted more proof she was in the country legally.

"I didn't feel very good about it, I'll tell you that,'' she said.

She contacted the Immigration Law Project, a pro bono service offered by Legal
Services of Eastern Missouri, which found ship's logs from 1927 and 1933 that
clearly indicated that Hughes and her mother both entered the country with
permanent resident visas, said the law project's Dan Horkheimer.

The law project sent its findings to immigration authorities in October and
still is waiting for a response.

A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesman in Chicago called Hughes'
case "very unique."

"It's unique because it's very old,'' said spokesman Marilu Cabrera. "We see
cases like that in smaller offices maybe two or three times a year. where
someone came in so long ago and maybe doesn't have that proof of residency or
citizenship."

She said a worker would have to go into the files to verify Hughes' entry as a
permanent resident.

She said Hughes' file would be expedited.

"We're doing everything we possibly can,'' Cabrera said.

Hughes said she feels privileged and thanks God that she lives in the United
States.

"It really makes you appreciate what you have or what I don't have but should
have,'' she said. "It's like they say: You never miss something until you don't
have it."

---

Proof of citizenship

Accepted documents a U.S. citizen can provide to obtain a Missouri drivers
license:

U.S. birth certificate

U.S. passport

Certificate of citizenship

Certificate of naturalization

Certificate of birth abroad

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Yvonne Hughes, 73, was born in Sweden in 1933 then came to the U.S. at
4 months old when her mother returned to the country. She married, had three
kids, worked, paid taxes. She never left the country. Recently, she has had
trouble obtaining proof of citizenship.  Huy Richard Mach | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

No financial penalty for lawyer's letter

BYLINE: By William C. Lhotka ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 468 words


In a split decision Thursday, a jury absolved a lawyer from Clayton of financial
repercussions for writing immigration officials that a couple from India whom he
had represented a decade ago lacked good moral character.

The Missouri Supreme Court reprimanded him last week over the same issue.

The St. Louis County Circuit Court jury found in favor of Edgar E. Lim, a
veteran of 31 years of immigration law here, in three of four verdicts and
awarded no damages in the fourth.

Ganesh Krishnamurthy and his wife, Padma Ganesh, had accused Lim of libel for a
letter Lim wrote federal immigration officials in February 2004, saying the
couple owed him more than $7,000 and lacked good moral character.

The suit also alleged that Lim violated his fiduciary duty to his former clients
when he wrote the letter.

Last week, the Missouri Supreme Court publicly reprimanded Lim over the letter.
A court minority wanted to take Lim's license away for six months. All seven
judges described Lim's conduct as reprehensible. The majority said Lim's conduct
"does not rise to the level of fraud or deceit so as to warrant suspension."

Krishnamurthy and his wife came to the United States more than a decade ago.
They now live in Michigan. Neither has ever been arrested or charged with a
crime. They hired Lim in 1994.

They testified that they love America and have wanted to apply for citizenship
but are afraid that the letter Lim wrote will surface and they will be forced to
prove their good moral character or perhaps face some sort of punitive action.

Andrew G. Neill, the couple's attorney, argued that Lim knew that a person's
moral character was critical for citizenship approval. Neill said the letter had
been a ploy to collect legal fees the immigrants didn't owe.

The couple said the husband handled the finances. It was unclear from Lim's
documents if the couple had paid the lawyer $1,000 or $2,000, and how much, if
anything, they owed, Neill said.

Lim said that he had repeatedly billed the couple for legal fees he claimed he
was owed, and that Ganesh Krishnamurthy had repeatedly ignored the billings. Lim
said he would have retracted the letter if they had paid. He said the references
to lying and deceit in the letter were references to the husband's failure to
contact or pay him.

Lim also questioned what damages the couple had shown.

The jury decided that Padma Ganesh had been libeled but could prove no damages.
Lim had acted properly toward Ganesh Krishnamurthy, the jury found.

"Will they be denied citizenship?" Lim asked the jury rhetorically. "How can
they claim something they never applied for?"

Lim also said there was no evidence the couple had ever been contacted by
federal immigration officials because of his letter. He steadfastly insisted to
the jury that they had failed to pay him what was due.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Widow's U.S. status in peril

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: WILDWOOD


CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE Thailand native Nok Kells' chance to achieve permanent U.S.
residency is precarious after the death of her husband, Robert Kells, a Navy
recruiter.

NO EXCEPTION TO RULE U.S. law requires a longer term of marriage to establish
residency; a federal immigration official in St. Louis says he's working on
Kells' case.

---

When Nok Kells' husband was killed in a motorcycle accident in March, it not
only left her without a mate, but it left her wondering whether she and her two
daughters have a future in this country.

Robert Kells' death put a halt to Nok's most promising chance for permanent
residency, just nine months after they married.

Now with Robert gone, Nok, from Thailand, has no legal basis to remain in the
U.S.

Had she been married two years, her petition for residency could have gone
forward, according to immigration law.

"I feel lost," said Nok, 37, in an interview in her condominium.

Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services office in St. Louis, called the death of Nok's husband
tragic, but he doesn't yet know how her situation will be resolved.

"I don't have any permanent answers," he said.

Nok met her husband, a petty officer first class in the Navy, in a bar in
Beijing in 2003.

"He walked in and looked so handsome," she said. "He just came right to me."

Nok was in the process of getting a divorce from her husband, with whom she had
moved to China. Robert was working for the U.S. Embassy.

Nok said the two immediately hit it off and that Robert even told one of her
friends that night that he would marry her.

"He kept saying she will be Mrs. Kells," she said.

He proposed less than a year later. In 2005, the couple moved to Missouri and
were married that July. He worked as a Navy recruiter.

On the Saturday he was killed, they had spent a good part of the day riding
together on his motorcycle.

When they got back, she started getting ready for her daughter's soccer game. He
told her that he was going for another ride.

The accident occurred a short distance from the couple's Wildwood home when
Robert and another driver were heading toward each other on Highway 109. When
the driver tried to make a left turn onto another road, she collided with
Robert.

Nok and her two daughters, ages 11 and 17, are receiving her husband's military
death benefits.

Master Chief Petty Officer Mark Davidson, who supervises the Navy Recruiting
District in St. Louis, acknowledged that Nok's immigration difficulties appear
unjust.

"There should be an exception," he said.

Nok has written more than a hundred letters to everyone from Oprah Winfrey to
President George W. Bush, asking for help.

"I'm not complaining to anybody, just seeing how people will respond," Nok said.

Nok said she became nervous about her immigration status about a month ago when
she received a letter from the Missouri Department of Revenue reminding her to
renew her drivers license.

When she tried to renew it, she was turned away because she did not have the
proper documents.

Her license will expire on Thursday, and she worries that she will be unable to
drive to the grocery store.

Moyer said his office is trying to make sure Nok can remain in the country
legally. He is recommending to his regional director that she receive deferred
action status, which means that no action would be taken on her case for up to a
year and that she could likely renew her drivers license.

The government sometimes grants the designation for humanitarian and other
reasons.

"She appears to at least be a recommendable case," he said. "We are working on
it right now."

But he stressed that deferred action is no permanent solution to Nok's problem.

If she gets the designation, Moyer said, she could use the time to find a job
for which there is a shortage of U.S. workers and an employer to petition the
government on her behalf. That could eventually lead to permanent residency.

"She's got to be proactive," Moyer said.

Moyer stressed no deportation proceedings have been initiated against Nok.

"At this point in time, they are not even under consideration," he said.

Nok was happy to hear it, and to learn that she might get a reprieve.

"That's good news," she said. "At least, they could get me a year."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Nok and Robert Kells met in Beijing in 2003 and married in 2005. He
died in March. Courtesy of Nok Kells  PHOTO - Nok Kells, 37, walks her dog,
JoJo, in her Wildwood neighborhood Friday afternoon. The Thai woman has been
coping with the death of her husband, Robert Kells. "These winter days are hard
on me. I am still coping with his death. My heart gets so heavy I feel like I
cannot breathe," she said. Kells lives in Wildwood with her two daughters, ages
17 and 11. Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Nok Kells, a Thailand native,
met her husband in Beijing in 2003. He died in a motorcycle crash in 2006.
Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

A widow in Wildwood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 373 words


American immigration law wasn't designed to be heartless toward widows. Yet
that's the result for Nok Kells, 37, of Wildwood.

Ms. Kells says she wants to live where she can visit her husband's grave. "I
visit him in summertime almost every week. It makes me feel better," she says.
"I love him so much. My mind and my heart are with him."

Ms. Kells met her husband, Navy petty officer Robert Kells, in China in 2003.
They were married in July of 2005 and moved to St. Louis, where he worked as a
recruiting officer. He died in a motorcycle accident last March.

Now Ms. Kells, a native of Thailand, has run afoul of an inflexible piece of
immigration law. She's caught in it with her children from a previous marriage,
ages 11 and 17.

In order to be eligible for permanent residency, an immigrant must be married to
a U.S. citizen for two years. If the marriage ends before that, out she goes.
Death is no excuse.

The rule exists for a good reason. It prevents sham marriages designed to bring
an immigrant to America. To make a blanket exception for death would create
interesting incentives for immigrants facing a possible divorce before the
two-year clock runs out.

But there should be an exception for immigrant spouses, such as Ms. Kells, who
obviously had nothing to do with her husband's accident. Provably innocent
spouses should be allowed to stay.

In fact, Ms. Kells would not have this problem if her Navy husband had died in
combat. There's already an exception in the law for combat widows.

As it is, Ms. Kells isn't allowed to work. She even can't renew her drivers
license.

Chester Moyer, chief of the Citizenship and Immigration Services office in St.
Louis, is doing what little he can. He has recommended Ms. Kells for "deferred
action." That's a legal limbo that lasts up to a year, and can be renewed at the
Immigration Service's discretion. While in limbo, she'll be able to work and get
a drivers license.

Widowhood is hard enough. Raising children alone in a new country is hard
enough. A compassionate exception for widows such as Ms. Kells will require a
change in the law that only Congress can bring. Her Congressman, Rep. Todd Akin,
along with senators Christopher Bond and Claire McCaskill, should look kindly on
her plight.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  IMMIGRATION OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Nok Kells Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Desperate letters recount efforts by Anne Frank's family to flee Nazis Her
father tried in vain to arrange visas for travel to U.S. or Cuba.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Anne Frank's father tried to arrange U.S. visas for his family before they went
into hiding, but his efforts were hampered when Allied and Axis countries
tightened immigration policies, according to papers released Wednesday.

Otto Frank also sent desperate letters to friends and family in the U.S.
pleading for help with immigration costs as the family tried to escape the
Nazi-occupied Netherlands.

"I would not ask if conditions here would not force me to do all I can in time
to be able to avoid worse," Otto Frank wrote to his college friend Nathan Straus
in April 1941. "It is for the sake of the children mainly that we have to care
for. Our own fate is of less importance."

The letters, along with documents and records from various agencies that helped
people immigrate from Europe, were released by the YIVO Institute for Jewish
Research, a New York-based institution that focuses on the history and culture
of Eastern European Jews. The group discovered the file among 100,000 other
Holocaust-related documents about a year and a half ago.

The documents show how Frank tried to arrange for his family - wife Edith,
daughters Margo and Anne and mother-in-law Rosa Hollander - to go to the U.S. or
Cuba. He wrote to relatives, friends and officials between April 30, 1941, and
Dec. 11, 1941, when Germany declared war on the U.S.

But immigration rules were changing under the Nazi regime and in the U.S. There
were nearly 300,000 people on a waiting list for a U.S. immigration visa.
Besides, since Frank had living relatives in Germany, he would have been unable
to immigrate under U.S. policy at the time.

"I know that it will be impossible for us all to leave even if most of the money
is refundable, but Edith urges me to leave alone or with the children," he said
in another letter to Straus.

He managed to secure one visa to Cuba, but it was canceled in December 1941
after the Germans declared war on the U.S. The family went into hiding in July
1942.

The family was in hiding for more than two years before being arrested. Anne
Frank described the family's life in hiding in her diary.

Anne Frank died of typhus at age 15 in a concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen,
Germany, in 1945. Her father returned to the Netherlands to collect her notes
and published them in 1947.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - This photo of Otto Frank with daughters Margaret (left) and Anne is
displayed at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research in New York.  New York Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Homeland chief calls for immigration reform

BYLINE: By Julie Watson THE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Friday that immigration reform
would let U.S. law enforcement focus on catching criminals instead of migrants
seeking better economic prospects.

But he said Americans were unlikely to back any such reform until added security
along the Mexican border convinces them they're safe.

In his first official visit to Mexico, Chertoff told foreign reporters that
Mexico was not a "hotbed" of terrorism, but "we are always vigilant for people
who might be passing into Mexico who are potentially linked to terrorists."

The 6,000 U.S. National Guard troops providing logistical support to the Border
Patrol since May have dramatically deterred people from crossing the 2,000-mile
frontier, he said. Arrests along the border are down, and fewer people have been
seen gathering to cross on the Mexican side.

But security alone won't permanently stop illegal border crossings, and Chertoff
warned that flows increase as smugglers regroup.

Comprehensive immigration reform, he said, would allow U.S. law enforcement to
"focus more on the people that we don't want in the country under any
circumstances, namely the criminals and the dangerous folks."

"Every time a Border Patrol officer is transporting a load of future
housekeepers and landscapers to someplace to be returned, he's not looking for
drug dealers or drug loads," Chertoff said.

Mexico has been pushing for years for a U.S. immigration accord. President
George W. Bush has proposed a guest-worker program that would allow Mexicans
living abroad to seek temporary work visas, but Congress has refused to back it.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 411 words


ST. LOUIS

Bosnians sue over citizenship delay

Building on the success of a similar suit filed last year, 35 elderly and
disabled refugees from war and ethnic cleansing in Bosnia have sued immigration
officials, trying to force action on their citizenship applications.

The suit was filed Friday by Legal Services of Eastern Missouri, the St. Louis
University Legal Clinic and the Catholic Legal Assistance Ministry. It asks a
federal judge to force the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency to
make a decision in the cases.

Ann Lever, a Legal Services attorney, said Monday that most of the plaintiffs in
the suit are elderly and all are mentally or physically disabled and unable to
take English or civics tests. They were granted a waiver of those tests.

Under federal law, officials have 120 days after granting medical waivers to
grant or deny citizenship, but the Bosnians have been waiting months or even
years, Lever said.

In September, 50 Bosnians filed a similar suit, which was dismissed Dec. 29
after the government relented and the Bosnians took their citizenship oaths.

TROY, MO.

Man, 38, is accused of domestic assault

Michael D. Jones was held Tuesday in the Lincoln County Jail with bail set at
$50,000, cash-only, after he attacked his girlfriend, police said. Jones, 38, of
the 400 block of Fawn Run Drive, was charged with domestic assault.

On Sunday, Jones quarreled with the woman about housework, police said. She told
officers that Jones had pulled her down a set of stairs, struck her in the head
and choked her, and that he threatened her with a kitchen knife. The woman, who
lives with Jones, was treated at a hospital for a broken nose, a head injury and
other wounds, officials said.

FAIRVIEW HEIGHTS

Shot fired in mall leads to four charges

A man from East St. Louis faces four charges after police say he fired a shot
inside St. Clair Square in Fairview Heights.

Charges were filed late Monday against Lamarkus Williams, 19. He is accused of
attempted first-degree murder, armed violence, attempted armed robbery and
aggravated discharge of a firearm. The pistol shot was fired Saturday inside the
mall.

Fairview Heights Lt. Ronald Burckhardt said a teen acquaintance of Williams' had
been the target.

"There's a history of bad blood between them," Burckhardt said.

The other teen lashed out and deflected the pistol. The bullet struck the
ceiling, and nobody was hurt.

Williams is in the St. Clair County Jail on $750,000 bail, Burckhardt said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Court ruling gives Ugandan lesbian chance of asylum

BYLINE: By Cheryl Wittenauer THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 487 words


Olivia Nabulwala says her family in Uganda was so angry and ashamed to learn she
was a lesbian that her relatives hurled insults at her, pummeled her and,
finally, stripped her and held her down while a stranger raped her.

"I hated myself from that day," she says in a sworn statement. "I disliked my
family for subjecting me to such torture, and yet they felt this was a good
punishment for me."

Now, in a case that illuminates a relatively unexplored area of immigration law,
the African immigrant is asking for asylum in the United States on the grounds
that she was persecuted over her sexual orientation. And a federal appeals court
ruling late last month in St. Louis has raised her hopes of success.

Persecution based on sexual orientation has been grounds for asylum in the
United States since the 1990s. There are few cases involving women, who are more
likely to be persecuted by family members, said Rachel B. Tiven, executive
director of Immigration Equality, a gay rights group that represents immigrants.

The Department of Homeland Security said it did not systematically track the
number of asylum claims based on sexual orientation. Most immigration cases are
dispensed without a published opinion.

Immigration Equality, based in New York, said that last year it won 18 asylum
cases for gay men and transgender women from Congo, Algeria, Jamaica, Russia,
Egypt, Peru, Bangladesh, Venezuela and Colombia. It said it lost two such asylum
cases.

To qualify for asylum, applicants must demonstrate past persecution or
well-founded fear of future persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular group, which now
includes gays. Asylum-seekers must also show, among other things, that the
government was unable or unwilling to protect them.

In an affidavit in support of her application for asylum, Nabulwala, who is in
her late 20s and now lives in St. Paul, Minn., says that being gay is shameful
in African culture and illegal in Uganda, and that her family expelled her from
the clan.

In her affidavit, Nabulwala said she had been beaten and insulted by relatives
as early as high school. In 2001, Nabulwala, by then in college, says she was
called to a family meeting after relatives learned she was still involved in a
lesbian relationship. She says two aunts dragged her out of the meeting into her
room, where a young man raped her.

Three months later, she entered the United States on a visitor visa, overstayed,
then fought deportation by asserting a right to asylum.

An immigration judge in Minnesota ruled that the rape was a "private family
mistreatment," and not sponsored or authorized by the government.

However, the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the judge used the wrong
legal standard, and ordered the case sent back for further proceedings on
whether the Ugandan government was unwilling or unable to control the abuse, as
Nabulwala contends.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fear itself

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 698 words


The city of Valley Park, having spent $80,000 in legal bills fighting a problem
it may not have, apparently is going to keep pouring good money after bad. The
only people this will benefit are the city's attorneys.

Two weeks ago, Valley Park's Board of Aldermen decided to halt the city's
crackdown on landlords who rent to illegal immigrants. Mayor Jeff Whitteaker
vetoed that decision, and Monday night the board couldn't muster enough votes to
overturn the veto. The mayor's tortuous logic prevailed: "To repeal what we have
worked so hard to create would be a much larger waste of money than to see this
issue forward."

Meanwhile, another bastion of enlightened democratic thought, the Missouri House
of Representatives, is poised to give final passage this week to a bill that
would require Highway Patrol officers to question the immigration status of
everyone they arrest.

Not be outdone, the Missouri Senate is considering what it calls the "Missouri
Omnibus Immigration Act," which incorporates the House bill's requirements;
enacts statewide landlord restrictions similar to Valley Park's; authorizes
other cities to do what Valley Park has done and - even though illegal aliens
can't legally attend public universities or receive public assistance - bans
them from doing it illegally.

What these efforts have in common - besides their dubious constitutionality - is
this: They speak to an unreasoned, almost xenophobic fear about a problem that
simply isn't much of a problem. Not in Valley Park, not in St. Louis and not in
most places in the state of Missouri.

Study after study has shown that the lower a person's income and education
levels, the more likely he is to worry about immigrants, both legal and illegal,
taking things from him that he does not have - such as a job, a slot on the
local Little League team, a college education or free health care. "Economic
hardship can foster negative attitudes toward immigration, fueled by a concern
that immigrants pose a threat to one's personal well being or that of one's
family," report Katherine Fennelly and Christopher Federico of the University of
Minnesota.

Moreover, they say, "this settlement of foreign workers and their families may
be a convenient symbol of the loss of a bygone era, and a threat to prevailing
conceptions of American identity." This "us against them" attitude is exploited
by conservative radio and television hosts, creating the perception that the
problems are larger than they actually are.

How big is the problem here? The Pew Hispanic Center, part of the Pew Research
Council, estimates that in March 2005, there were about 11.1 million illegal
immigrants in the United States. The center estimated somewhere between 35,000
and 65,000 of them lived in Missouri.

In states with higher immigrant concentrations - as well as in some small
Missouri towns with meat-processing plants - there have been some displacements
in low-wage jobs. The Center for Immigration Studies reported that the
occupations most affected include housekeepers, construction laborers,
dishwashers, janitors, painters, cabbies, groundskeepers, and meat/poultry
workers. But the overwhelming majority of workers in these occupations are
native-born, the CIS studies show, suggesting that native-born Americans who
really want those jobs can get them.

As to social costs, immigration advocates say undocumented immigrants pay more
in taxes than they use in services. Immigration opponents cite studies
indicating that illegal immigrants' taxes pay only a third to a half of their
social costs. The data disagree on how to allocate the cost of public education.
Advocates say immigrants' children are largely U.S.-born and therefor entitled
to free public education. Opponents say the children wouldn't be here without
their parents, who are here illegally.

By either standard, the social cost in most places in Missouri is minimal, and
most of it is offset by taxes paid by workers doing jobs that otherwise go
begging.

Immigration reform is a job for the federal government. When local and state
governments wade in, acting out of unreasoned fear or demagoguery, they're just
begging for expensive lawsuits. And likely to lose them.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bush, Democrats will push for immigration reforms by summer Debate over which to
prioritize: skills, family.

BYLINE: By Julie Hirschfeld Davis THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Who should get a preference when it comes to immigrants?

For decades, relatives of those already in the United States have moved to the
front of the line.

The White House and senior Republican lawmakers now want to strictly limit the
influx of family members and give preference to skilled workers sought by
employers. Democrats say that plan is inhumane and impractical.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., says the issue has become "one of the most
contentious" in putting together a broad immigration bill upon which both
parties can agree. The idea is to give many of the nation's 12 million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship and create a guest-worker program for new
arrivals.

"It would be a huge mistake to expand employment-based immigration at the
expense of our historic tradition of family-based immigration," Kennedy, one of
the key negotiators, said in a speech this week.

Nearly two-thirds of legal permanent residents admitted last year were
family-sponsored immigrants, while less than 12.6 percent came in based on
employment preferences, according to the Homeland Security Department. Roughly
one-fourth fell into other categories, such as refugees and asylum seekers.

Reshaping immigration laws is a priority for President George W. Bush, who wants
it as part of his domestic legacy. It also would be a popular achievement for
Democrats to take to voters in the next election.

Senate Democratic leaders have promised to bring up a measure, with or without
GOP agreement, within two weeks.

Bush put in a plug Wednesday for a swift compromise. "I will work with both
Republicans and Democrats to get a bill to my desk before the summer is out,
hopefully," he said.

Under the White House proposal, legal immigrants would lose the right to
petition to bring adult children and siblings to the U.S. They could do so for
spouses and minor children, but their ability to sponsor parents also would be
severely limited.

The proposal would limit or end preferences for people who had family members
living legally in the U.S. and award many more visas based on employability
criteria, such as education and skills.

Temporary workers could not bring family members at all unless they met a
certain wealth threshold and had health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bipartisan bill on immigration near An agreement could be reached as soon as
Tuesday.

BYLINE: By Julie Hirschfeld Davis The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush, promoting bipartisan immigration talks as they reach a
critical stage, said Saturday that Republicans and Democrats were building
consensus that could produce a bill this year.

"I am optimistic we can pass a comprehensive immigration bill and get this
problem solved for the American people this year," Bush said in his weekly radio
address.

Bush used the address to put pressure on senators as they prepare to hold a vote
on the issue.

The president has dispatched two members of his Cabinet, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, to Capitol
Hill for almost daily meetings with a handful of Republicans and Democrats to
cut an immigration deal. The group hopes to reach a compromise by Tuesday.

"These meetings have been productive. We've been addressing our differences in
good faith, and we're building consensus. Both Republicans and Democrats
understand that successful immigration reform must be bipartisan," Bush said.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., thanked Bush for "addressing the nation on this
critical issue and emphasizing the common goals that we share.

"The American people will be watching and waiting to see if the Senate can come
together on immigration reform and strike the right balance between
strengthening our security and our economy and enacting laws that uphold the
humanity and dignity of those who come here seeking a better life," Kennedy
said.

Talks were to continue throughout the weekend on a potential deal that would
first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech
identification system for immigrant workers.

The proposal would also establish a guest-worker program for new arrivals, but
it would prevent many of them from staying in the United States. The ability of
immigrants to bring their families into the country would be limited.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has set a vote for this week to bring
up an alternative plan that passed the Senate last year with wide support from
his party but substantial GOP opposition. Republicans have said they would block
the move, arguing that the bipartisan talks should be given time to bear fruit.

Without a deal by Tuesday, the stage would be set for a partisan clash over
immigration when the vote takes place, expected on Wednesday.

Bush has long called for an immigration overhaul that would set up a
guest-worker program and allow illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship, as
well as bolstering border security.

He supported the 2006 measure, which died in the House amid opposition from his
own party's conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rally is part of larger plan

BYLINE: By Aisha Sultan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 452 words


Capitol Focus A statewide coalition hopes to educate, lobby legislators.

Low Numbers Fear of raids plus less anger may keep some people away from the
rally.

---

Immigration activists here have moved their focus from hitting the streets to
hitting the hallways of the state Legislature.

Still, organizers hope a rally Saturday afternoon at Kiener Plaza downtown will
show the community that they are still fighting for comprehensive immigration
reform.

"We need to do something before the presidential election," said Krysta Perez,
immigrant task force leader with Metropolitan Congregations United. But,
following the trend across the country, organizers expect a smaller turnout this
year compared with the crowd that protested last year.

Joan Suarez of Jobs for Justice, which helped organize the rally last year, said
the group had joined a statewide coalition to lobby and educate legislators
about immigration issues. She attributes the lower turnout to several factors:

- Increased raids by immigration officials have made some people uneasy about
attending.

- There is less anger fueling large numbers of people, who had more at stake
with last year's proposed legislation.

- Many are taking a "wait-and-see" attitude with the new Democrat-led Congress.

Some think the massive rallies around the country last year didn't accomplish
the goal.

"In the end, we didn't have immigration reform," Suarez said. The advocacy
coalition, Missouri Immigrant and Refuge Advocates, represents 30 organizations
statewide and is addressing issues such as proposals to make English the
official language.

Churches in several large cities are also taking a different approach by
offering themselves as sanctuaries for some illegal immigrants. Although none in
St. Louis has formally announced such a program, several would consider the
idea.

Pastor Mary Albert of Epiphany United Church of Christ said the church had a
very "peace-and-justice-oriented congregation," and although it has no such
program right now, she is open to the idea.

"It's the sort of thing we would consider doing if we were aware of families in
need of sanctuary," she said.

Several churches helped immigrant families in Valley Park last summer, after the
City Council enacted an ordinance targeting illegal immigrants. The St. Louis
Archdiocese helped relocate more than 20 Hispanic families who feared eviction
or deportation. Archbishop Raymond Burke plans to offer a closing prayer at
Saturday's rally.

Albert says there are usually extenuating circumstances to consider in the
immigration debate. Some people may have risked their lives to leave dangerous
situations, which may not be safe for return.

"It's not always as easy as saying, 'Go home,'" she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigration reform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Bush talks up immigration deal in weekly radio address

BYLINE: By Ben Feller THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, TEXAS


President George W. Bush on Saturday praised senators of both parties for
delivering a potential deal to overhaul U.S. immigration policy.

The compromise aims to grant legal status to millions of people now in the
country unlawfully, stiffen border security and create a program for temporary
workers. It also would reshape requirements for new immigrants and take measures
to prevent illegal workers from getting jobs.

"I appreciate the effort of senators who came together to craft this important
legislation," Bush said in his weekly radio address. "This bill brings us closer
to an immigration system that enforces our laws and upholds the great American
tradition of welcoming those who share our values and our love of freedom."

A victory for Bush is far from assured.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Saturday she was not pleased with the
immigration agreement.

Speaking to reporters after giving a commencement address at the University of
San Francisco, Pelosi, D-Calif., said it would create more restrictive rules on
visa eligibility for relatives.

Spouses and minor children of legal residents and citizens could still get green
cards, but other relatives would have to qualify under a point system that
rewards advanced skills and education.

"A point system for unification undermines our family values that we espouse in
our country," said Pelosi.

An unlikely alliance of liberal and conservative lawmakers championed the
proposal, which was announced Thursday.

The president used his radio address to tout the deal and build momentum for it,
without expressly lobbying lawmakers to vote for it. For Bush, approval of a
comprehensive plan would be a signature second-term achievement.

The package faces opposition from both sides. Conservatives say it is too
lenient on those who have broken the law; liberals warn it would be unworkable
and unfair to migrant families.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Exodus from city justice system raises questions THREE QUIT o A public defender
and two other lawyers resigned in the past week. FEDERAL ISSUE o One's marriage
to a foreign national may be subject to scrutiny.

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick and Heather Ratcliffe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH © 2007,
ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


Three lawyers in the city justice system resigned in the past week under
unexplained circumstances that appear to have drawn the attention of federal
officials.

Eric Affholter, the district public defender, quit May 16, followed the next day
by a subordinate, assistant public defender Collette N. Lewis. Her live-in
boyfriend, Timothy J. O'Leary, resigned Monday night as a prosecutor in the
circuit attorney's office.

None of the three gave reasons for leaving. Affholter twice refused to discuss
the matter with reporters; Lewis and O'Leary could not be reached for comment.

A fourth figure in the unfolding story is Pedro Cerna-Rojas, who lives at the
same address as Affholter. Records obtained by the Post-Dispatch show he married
Lewis in a Las Vegas wedding chapel in December 2004.

Cerna-Rojas, 31, is a Peruvian who studied at Webster University on a student
visa, U.S. immigration officials said, and graduated in May 2003 with a master's
degree in international business.

He was approved for an apprenticeship or internship-type employment extension on
his visa that would have expired in June 2004, an immigration employee said.

Cerna-Rojas' immigration status at the time of his marriage to Lewis could not
be ascertained.

Federal law bars marriages arranged just to help someone stay in the country.

Cerna-Rojas could not be reached for comment.

Asked Tuesday about the situation, U.S. Attorney Catherine Hanaway replied, "I
cannot comment on any ongoing investigation."

Court records do not reflect any pending cases against the four.

Marty Robinson, who heads Missouri's public defender system, would say only, "I
don't comment on rumors or personnel actions."

Two members of the state Public Defender Commission said Tuesday that they did
not know details of Affholter's resignation; the others could not be reached.

Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce was traveling and unavailable. One of her top
assistants, Jeannette Graviss, confirmed O'Leary's departure for "personal
reasons" but declined to say more.

O'Leary and Lewis have been open about their relationship.

According to St. Louis Circuit Court records, both were married - not to each
other - and divorced their respective spouses eight days apart in September
2004. The contents of the files were sealed.

The two moved in together. But on Dec. 10, 2004, Lewis married Cerna-Rojas at
the Las Vegas Garden of Love, which is reported to accommodate 1,500 weddings a
month.

Affholter and O'Leary were the official witnesses at the ceremony, according to
the marriage certificate on file in Clark County, Nev.

Cerna-Rojas and Lewis listed their home on that certificate as an address on
Windermere Place in St. Louis, a house that Affholter owns, according to city
assessor's records.

Affholter, 40, and Cerna-Rojas are both listed in drivers license records as
living at the Windermere address.

Lewis, 33, continued to live with O'Leary, 36, on Pershing Avenue.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Note: The First Edition ran: Records obtained by the Post-Dispatch show
he married Lewis in a Las Vegas wedding mill in 2004.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Discord casts doubt on immigration legislation

BYLINE: By Adam Sichko Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The small group of senators who unveiled ambitious immigration reforms expected
to vote on the legislation before Memorial Day.

Instead, many of their Senate colleagues have sounded sharp notes of discord
during grueling debates that will continue when lawmakers return to Washington
this week. And Sen. Claire McCaskill, for one, isn't convinced the plan can
survive.

"I feel like Goldilocks," said McCaskill, D-Mo. "Either it's too hot or too cold
as far as I'm concerned, and I don't think we've found the 'just right' yet.

"And we may not," she added. "I'd be a 'no' vote at this point."

Many senators, including those from Missouri and Illinois, have been quick to
voice their complaints. The intense debate has frequently pitted party members
against one another and cast doubt on whether the sweeping plan can outlast a
seemingly endless stream of proposed changes.

As Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., said, "The devil's in the details." But
it's more than the details causing senatorial angst. The bill's major
initiatives are also proving to be stumbling blocks, including:

- Creating a temporary guest worker program.

- Beefing up border security with a fence, technologies and thousands more
border control agents.

- Providing a path to citizenship for the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States.

"We all understand this is a work in progress," said Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., one of the bill's creators.

Senators aren't the only people concerned about the immigration issues.
McCaskill's office workers, as well as those in the office of Sen. Dick Durbin,
D-Ill., said constituents have inundated them with telephone calls.

"It would be unfair to characterize the response we've had as anything other
than adamantly opposed," McCaskill said. "It's the nature of the beast that
there really hasn't been anybody who's called that's been happy with it."

Durbin and McCaskill expressed varying concerns about the guest worker program,
which would allow immigrants to work in the U.S. for two to six years.

Bond offered an amendment curbing the path-to-citizenship plan, which he labeled
as "amnesty" that "rewards illegal immigrants." Bond and McCaskill voted
Thursday to support a different amendment that eliminated the path to
citizenship. The majority of senators, including Durbin and Sen. Barack Obama,
D-Ill., voted against that idea.

BASED ON POINTS

On the Senate floor, Obama spoke out against a proposed points-based immigrant
application process giving education and workplace skills higher value than
family ties.

He called the idea a "radical experiment in social engineering" and said he
plans to offer amendments to get rid of it.

"How many of our forefathers would have measured up under this point system? How
many would have been turned back at Ellis Island?" Obama asked.

Obama's stance on immigration will get special scrutiny as his presidential
campaign proceeds; he has said he hopes "to be able to support" the final bill.

Durbin projected that the bill would get through the Senate and the House, and
said the true test would come when the two chambers try to craft a final bill in
conference.

"I just think doing nothing is not an option," Durbin said. "We can't walk away
from our responsibility. We have to make some serious changes, even though
they'll be controversial - and some will be painful."

Immigrant advocacy groups are lobbying senators to push ahead, said Frank
Sharry, head of the National Immigration Forum.

"The debate has been quite a roller-coaster ride," he said. "We're both fighting
like hell and biting our fingernails."

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current o Will lawmakers be able to agree on an immigration bill?
What do you think it should say? Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  INTENSE FIGHT IN SENATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Bond "The devil's in the details"  PHOTO - McCaskill "I'd be a 'no'
vote at this point"  PHOTO - Durbin "Doing nothing is not an option"  PHOTO -
Obama Hopes "to be able to support" bill

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

America should be economically strategic about her future

BYLINE: By William H. Frey

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D9

LENGTH: 691 words


With a proposed immigration reform compromise deal now before Congress, talk
continues to center on so-called undocumented immigrants - the 12 million
American residents here illegally and whose presence is either denigrated or
celebrated depending on which advocacy group is speaking.

Beyond the undocumenteds, however, the proposed reform bill also transforms the
debate by addressing the key role that legal immigrants will play in America's
demographic and economic future.

Legal immigrants account for two-thirds of the 36 million U.S. foreign-born
population, a fraction that will rise as more undocumenteds become legal. As we
move through the 21st century, immigration will be the main driver of America's
demographic and economic change.

At present rates, immigrants and their children will account for 60 percent of
our population growth in the next 43 years and most of our labor force growth in
the next two decades, thanks to the retirement of the baby boom generation. As
such, immigration is poised to meet important human capital needs that are
crucial to our national and regional economies, especially in such struggling
cities as St. Louis.

Yet the existing preference system of admitting legal immigrants is a vestige of
the 42-year-old Immigration and Nationality Act. Enacted well before the
evolution of a globalized economy that values knowledge workers, it pays little
attention to employability and skill levels, focusing instead on such
considerations as family reunification. Employment-based admittance accounted
for only 17 percent of legal immigrants admitted this decade.

Among recent immigrant adults who became citizens, 20 percent did not graduate
from high school compared with 12.5 percent for the native U.S. population.
Among all non-citizen immigrants, the figure is 36 percent. For those coming
from Mexico, the largest contributing nation to foreign-born U.S. residents, 61
percent did not graduate from high school.

We should be more economically strategic about who is admitted to the nation
legally, and a key part of the new bill addresses the issue. As drafted, it
proposes a substantial increase in permanent employment-based admissions
according to a "points system" that values a prospective legal resident's
education and experience.

Already, the Democrats controlling Congress are complaining about the proposal
because it reduces family immigration and it does not consider specific linkages
to both high- and low-skilled employment needs. Nonetheless, it could open the
door to a much-needed fundamental restructuring of our legal immigration system.

An equally important discussion that the bill does not address should focus on
what happens to legal immigrants once they arrive, especially regarding the
education of the next generation. A recent study by the standardized exam
provider Educational Testing Service found that high school graduation rates in
the United States peaked at 77 percent in 1969 and have fallen to 70 percent
since 1995; graduation rates among minority children are approaching 50 percent.

Focusing on immigration and the educational achievement of Hispanic children, a
2006 National Academy of Sciences report called for greater public investment to
prevent their relegation as adults to "unstable, low-paying jobs at the lowest
rungs of the economic ladder."

All this suggests that a program of federal assistance for educating the foreign
born at the local and state level should be part and parcel of any comprehensive
immigration reform.

Almost all observers agree that there is an urgent need for change in America's
immigration policy. But this should not stop with a fixation on the nation's
undocumented immigrants. We need to give serious reflection to the overall
structure of our immigration system, both legal and illegal; it is these
immigrants who largely will determine our demographic destiny.

The proposed points system is a start.

---

William H. Frey is a demographer at the Brookings Institution Metropolitan
Policy Program and a research professor at the University of Michigan Population
Studies Center. He is the author of "America by the Numbers" (New Press).

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigration Reform OTHER VIEW

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Mexicans line up outside the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey Mexico,
earlier this month as they wait for a working visa Interview Guillermo Arias |
Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 417 words


NEW YORK

Rare cancers found in ground zero workers

The head of the largest program tracking the health of World Trade Center site
workers says several have developed rare blood cell cancers

Dr. Robin Herbert, co-director of the World Trade Center Medical Monitoring
Program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said researchers who have screened 20,000
of the estimated 40,000 ground zero workers were "most concerned" about
lymphatic and blood cancer cases.

Doctors had previously said it was too soon to know whether any cancers can be
linked to trade center dust exposure.

CONCORD, N.H.

Governor's signature legalizes civil unions

Gay couples in New Hampshire can start applying for many of the rights and
responsibilities of marriage as early as January under a law Gov. John Lynch
signed Thursday establishing civil unions.

Couples who enter civil unions will have the same rights, responsibilities and
obligations as married couples. Same-sex unions from other states also will be
recognized if they are legal in the state in which they were performed.

WASHINGTON

Miami judges are tough on refugees, study says

Immigration judges in Miami are about half as likely on average to grant asylum
to refugees as their peers in 14 other U.S. cities, according to a national
study that identified "amazing disparities" in the handling of immigration
cases.

The study, which analyzed 140,000 decisions by 225 immigration judges and took
particular aim at the nation's busiest courts, found that Miami's 21 immigration
judges on average granted 23 percent of the requests that came before them. The
national rate is 40 percent.

The study, posted Thursday on the website of the Social Science Research
Network, covered cases from January 2000 to August 2004 from the countries with
the most asylum claims - including Albania, China, Colombia, Haiti, India,
Pakistan and Venezuela.

MIAMI

Many still lack plan for hurricanes, poll says

Most people along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts still lack a hurricane survival
plan and don't feel vulnerable to storms, despite Katrina's dramatic damage and
pleas from emergency officials for residents to prepare before the season
starts, according to a poll released Thursday.

The six-month Atlantic season starts Friday, and forecasters have predicted an
above-average year: 13 to 17 named storms.

Nevertheless, 53 percent of those surveyed in 18 Atlantic and Gulf Coast states
say they don't feel vulnerable to a hurricane or to related tornadoes and
flooding, according to the Mason-Dixon poll.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration compromise collapses STING FOR BUSH o Bill was major domestic
priority.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Weisman WASHINGTON POST Ron Harris of the Post-Dispatch
contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A tenuous compromise to overhaul the nation's immigration laws fell through
Thursday night when senators from both parties refused to cut off debate and
move to a final vote.

The move handed the unlikely alliance of Democratic leaders and President George
W. Bush a setback on a major domestic priority.

The defeat came after months of tedious negotiations and weeks of debate when a
45-50 procedural vote fell well short of the 60 needed to end the debate. Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., then pulled the bill from the floor, while
holding out hope that the Senate could resurrect the measure within weeks.

"I have every desire to complete this legislation. We all have to work, the
president included, to get this legislation done," Reid said after 9 p.m., while
cataloging a long list of futile efforts at compromise. "This bill is something
that the country needs."

But he was also quick to place responsibility for the defeat on Bush, who had
made passage of the measure a top legislative goal. "The headlines are going to
be, the president fails again," Reid said. "It's his bill."

With Bush out of the country this week at a summit in Germany, he left the
lobbying on the bill to key aides, including Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez. They watched from Vice
President Dick Cheney's ceremonial office just off the Senate chamber Thursday
night as the president's most important priority stalled.

Thirty-seven Democrats, seven Republicans and independent Joseph Lieberman of
Connecticut voted to end debate. Thirty-eight Republicans, 11 Democrats and
independent Bernie Sanders of Vermont voted against ending debate.

Missouri Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond, a Republican, and Claire McCaskill, a
Democrat, voted against cutting off debate, while Illinois Sens. Dick Durbin and
Barack Obama, both Democrats, voted to end it.

Durbin said he and other Democratic leaders were disappointed at the inability
of Bush and Republican senators to rally their party around a bill that came
largely from Republicans.

"What we have seen is a parade of horribles, amendment after amendment offered
by Republicans who will never vote for this immigration bill, trying to
embarrass those who support it," Durbin said earlier Thursday.

McCaskill said a number of the bill's aspects bothered her. "As a former
auditor, I believe we should starve incompetent programs and not feed them," she
said. "We clearly know that the guest worker program is a path to illegal
immigration. So, I think we starve an incompetent government agency. We don't
feed it."

The measure would have coupled tighter border security and a crackdown on the
hiring of illegal immigrants with generous new avenues for illegal immigrants to
stay and work legally. But the bipartisan compromise, dubbed the "grand bargain"
by its negotiators, suffered a fatal blow early Thursday when the Senate voted
for an amendment ending a new guest worker program after five years.

That measure was backed by most Democrats, who, along with their trade union
allies, have been leery that the guest worker program would depress wages and
displace American jobs.

Democratic and Republican negotiators scrambled for the rest of the day to
salvage the legislation, drafting lists of amendments to consider that would
satisfy conservative opponents of the deal and trying to find a way to undo the
guest worker vote. But each time Reid presented an offer, it was rebuffed.

Democrats and their allies were never enamored with the deal either, and the
legislation had actually grown more conservative before its defeat.

The Senate adopted Republican amendments that would force illegal immigrants to
publicly disclose information on their legalization applications that originally
was to be kept confidential.

Newly legalized undocumented workers would not be eligible for the earned income
tax credit, and they could not receive Social Security benefits they had earned
while working illegally.

The defeat was especially stinging for Bush, for whom the bill may be the last
chance for a significant domestic achievement for his second term.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What do you think of the how the Senate and the
administration have handled the immigration issue? Talk about it in Current
Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants will call on Congress Several caravans are heading for nation's
capital to press for immigration reform bill

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbass The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


As President George W. Bush presses lawmakers to get immigration reform back on
track, immigrants across the country are marching, praying, writing lawmakers
and hitting the road for Washington in a desperate push to revive the stalled
measure.

Before the bill collapsed in the Senate last week, most immigrants agreed that
it was flawed. But seeing a rare opportunity for change slipping away - and
recognizing it may not come again for years - many insisted they wouldn't let it
go without a fight.

The immigrants' rallying cry echoed the president's words Tuesday to divided
Republicans: "The status quo is unacceptable."

"There was a lot of frustration that politics got in the way of sound, necessary
public policy," said Jerry Gonzalez of the Georgia Association of Latino Elected
Officials, a statewide organization whose 4,000 members are calling their
senators seeking reforms. "The time is now. They need to act. They have to."

A caravan left Los Angeles for Washington on Sunday, picking up immigrants along
the way who are eager to tell their stories to legislators.

A second caravan left Wednesday after a send-off from Roman Catholic Cardinal
Roger Mahoney.

The first group was led by Eduardo "Piolin" Sotelo, host of the nationally
syndicated radio show "Piolin por la Manana," and was cheered on by hundreds of
supporters as it left a historic plaza from the city's Mexican past.

Sotelo is collecting letters asking for a path to citizenship for the country's
approximately 12 million illegal immigrants. He's broadcasting his appeal from
cities along the way and expects to have about 1 million letters by the time he
gets to Washington today.

"If someone's already proved they're working hard for this great nation and for
his family, and he's proved he's a good human being, why not live legally here
in this country?" Sotelo said. "We're waiting for a positive answer from our
senators."

Immigrants whose families were separated during immigration raids are hanging
all their hopes on the possibility of comprehensive reform.

Tony Wasilewski, a Polish immigrant living on the outskirts of Chicago, saw his
wife deported to Poland on June 8. She took with her the couple's 6-year-old
American-born son fearing he was too young to be away from her.

"I want to bring my family back to America, and I want to protect families that
are in the process of deportation," he said. "I'm going there to try to talk to
our leaders, our congressmen, our senators. We need a change."

Wasilewski is also joining a caravan of about 100 immigrants, clergy members and
other supporters on a 10-city tour that culminates with a rally next week in
Washington.

On Sunday, Catholic dioceses around the country took part in a day of prayer for
immigration reform. Bishop Oscar Solis celebrated Mass at Our Lady Queen of
Angels Church in downtown Los Angeles, drawing 250 worshippers.

In Atlanta, immigrant groups are calling for an interfaith day of prayer on June
21.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Supports gather to bid goodbye to friends and relatives leaving on "The
Dreams Across America Tour" at Union Station in Los Angeles on Wednesday.
Organized by the Catholic Church, unions and community groups, the group
includes several dozen legal immigrants who will cross the country by train
while making stops to tell their stories of coming to the United States.  Photo
by Nick Ut | The Associated Press  PHOTO - Catholic Cardinal Roger Mahoney of
Los Angeles prays before the departure of  "The Dreams Across America Tour." The
trip is scheduled to finish in Washington next week.  Photo by Nick Ut | The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: from news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 359 words


GOP senators plan to revive immigration bill

Senate leaders vowed Thursday night to revive stalled immigration legislation as
soon as next week, capping a furious rescue attempt led by President George W.
Bush.

The decision, announced by Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and his
Republican counterpart, Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, envisions a final vote
on the controversial bill before lawmakers begin their Fourth of July vacation.

Reid and McConnell announced their plans in a two-sentence statement that capped
days of private negotiations by key senators as well as Bush's personal
involvement.

House bills will shine new light on earmarks

House Republicans who padded legislation with lawmakers' pet projects when they
ran the House have successfully forced Democrats to be more open about Congress'
pork barrel ways.

House GOP and Democratic leaders announced the agreement Thursday evening.

After days of bickering, Democrats abandoned plans to pass spending bills
without allowing foes of so-called earmarks to challenge them in the full House.

The hope is that greater sunlight on earmarks will clean bills of the most
wasteful of those home-district projects.

White House still opposes shield law for journalists

The Bush administration still opposes a bill to shield reporters from federal
efforts to force them to reveal their sources despite sponsors' revisions, a
Justice Department official said Thursday.

"History has demonstrated that the protections already in place, including the
department's own rigorous internal review of media subpoena requests, are
sufficient," Assistant Attorney General Rachel Brand told the House Judiciary
Committee.

The bill's sponsors said they had added exceptions for imminent threats to
national security and bodily harm, among others, to make more palatable to the
administration a bill needed to protect the public's right to know about
government and other wrongdoing.

The legislation, said Mike Pence, R-Ind., "is not about protecting reporters. It
is about protecting the public's right to know."

The measure would write into federal law a policy already enacted by 32 states
and the District of Columbia.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - rally for immigration -  Immigration advocates gather on the grounds of
the Capitol in Washington on Thursday, following a news conference about a
controversial immigration measure.  New York Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Marriage license law puts hitch in plans to get hitched

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, TENN.


A federal law that requires people to supply their Social Security numbers when
applying for a marriage license has forced thousands of couples around the
country, particularly illegal immigrants, to put their wedding plans on hold.

The law has been on the books for about a decade and was intended to make it
easier to collect child support payments. But in some places, it has prevented
even legal immigrants and some American citizens from getting married.

Some couples are traveling to other states or other counties willing to issue
them marriage licenses.

Federal law requires states to record the Social Security numbers of all
applicants for a professional license, drivers license, recreational license or
marriage license. And Social Security numbers are unavailable to those who are
in this country illegally or lack permission to work.

But whether and how the law is enforced varies dramatically from state to state,
and even from county to county, with some authorities interpreting the law as
saying that only those people who already have Social Security numbers need to
supply them.

Immigration attorneys say the law was not designed to keep people from getting
married. "There's a fundamental U.S. constitutional right to marry," said
Charles Baesler, chairman of the American Immigration Lawyers Association's
Southeast chapter.

Members of Nashville's St. Edward Catholic Church, with a large Hispanic
congregation, drove about 20 couples across the state line to Kentucky for
licenses and a civil wedding ceremony before bringing them home for a church
wedding.

"We call ourselves a Christian country, but you've got to go to Georgia or
Kentucky in order to get married," said the Rev. Joseph Breen, the parish's
pastor. "We're supposed to be pro-family."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Lawyer admits he set up boyfriend's fake marriage IMMIGRATION FRAUD o Pedro
Cerna-Rojas (far left) "married" one of his partner's employees. PUBLIC DEFENDER
o "I should have made a decision to uphold the law," says Eric Affholter (near
left).

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


The former head of the St. Louis public defender's office pleaded guilty Monday
and admitted arranging a sham marriage between one of his female employees and
his Peruvian boyfriend to keep the boyfriend in the country.

The former chief, Eric Affholter, admitted that he and his boyfriend, Pedro
Cerna-Rojas, recruited their friend Collette Lewis in the late summer or early
fall of 2004 to marry Cerna-Rojas. Lewis worked for Affholter as an assistant
public defender. Cerna-Rojas is from a small town in Peru, Affholter said in an
interview in June, and had originally come to the United States in 2000 for a
postgraduate education. The two met in 2003.

Lewis agreed to the arrangement, the plea agreement says, and Affholter,
Cerna-Rojas, Lewis and her boyfriend, Timothy J. O'Leary, flew to Las Vegas,
where Lewis and Cerna-Rojas married on Dec. 20.

O'Leary was an assistant circuit attorney in St. Louis but has since resigned,
as did Lewis and Affholter after news of a criminal investigation became public
in May.

Lewis and Cerna-Rojas filed immigration paperwork a month later to change
Cerna-Rojas' immigration status. In the paperwork, they said they were married
and living together, but both were actually living with their respective
boyfriends, the plea agreement says.

In April 2005, they told an immigration official that they had consummated their
marriage, and Cerna-Rojas received conditional permanent resident status, the
plea agreement says, although they never actually consummated the marriage.

Affholter and Cerna-Rojas were indicted June 1. Officials say Cerna-Rojas has
returned to Peru.

Affholter won't comment about where he is or whether they're in contact.

Lewis and O'Leary have not been charged. In June, U.S. Attorney Catherine
Hanaway said it was because they were not key players.

Affholter has said that he and Cerna-Rojas had carefully weighed their decision
to commit a crime.

"I just wanted to be able to spend the rest of my life with the person I fell in
love with - in this country," he said in the interview in June.

He also acknowledged that he'd made a mistake. "It was illegal. And as a lawyer,
I should have made a decision to uphold the law."

Affholter said he was speaking out about the case to highlight the Uniting
American Families Act, currently in the U.S. Congress, which would give same-sex
couples the same rights to sponsor their partners as heterosexual couples have.

On Tuesday, Affholter said he'd been surprised at the attention the case had
received - and the calls from others in the same situation.

"I guess I didn't even realize it was as big of an issue or as organized of an
issue," he said.

Under federal sentencing guidelines, Affholter faces a prison sentence ranging
from zero to six months. He was penalized, under the guidelines, for leading the
"conspiracy," but was rewarded for accepting responsibility. He was also
rewarded because he did not commit the offense for money, the plea agreement
says.

Affholter referred questions about the sentence that he and his attorney would
seek at the sentencing hearing to his attorney, who did not return messages
seeking comment.

Affholter is working for a property management company in Illinois and said he
did not expect his sentence to change that.

Lewis has declined to comment in the past. O'Leary and the person said to be his
attorney could not be reached for comment.

---

Get more

STLtoday.com/links o Read earlier coverage of the Eric Affholter case.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Pedro Cerna-Rojas (far left) and Eric Affholter (near left).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

The immigration debate will continue; we need true leaders

BYLINE: By Joan Suarez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 677 words


The failed attempt by the U.S. Senate to address immigration reform dealt a huge
blow to a country that has waited more than two decades for solutions to one of
our most pressing national issues.

Of greatest concern is that 53 Senators, including Missouri's Sen. Christopher
"Kit" Bond and Sen. Claire McCaskill, chose to ignore the vast majority of
Americans who support a comprehensive solution. Instead, they gave up too soon
on the legislative process and caved to an anti-immigrant environment that
taints us all - in the process sacrificing the interests of the country on the
basis of inaccurate political calculations.

Immigration is an emotionally charged and complex issue. Taking it on requires
leadership, courage and putting aside partisan politics. And there was a
courageous bipartisan group of senators trying to craft legislation to bring
both parties to the table.

The Senate bill was far from perfect, but it was not the end of the line.
Legislators knew the bill had to go through the House of Representatives and a
conference committee, where outstanding issues could have been ironed out. That
would have been the point for a decision about continuing to work or giving up.

Instead, the Senators who exercised leadership were attacked and threatened, not
only politically but also physically, for having the audacity to do their jobs
and for trying to get their colleagues to do the same.

That is the most alarming aspect of the immigration debate: the politics of fear
and hate. Groups at the local level working with immigrant communities are all
too familiar with it. They have received hate mail and threats, seen swastikas
sprayed on windows and experienced the backlash that renders whole communities
suspect and obscures the path to sound policy-making. Here in Missouri, we have
seen families forced from their homes and children separated from their parents
and local businesses intimidated for serving immigrants.

Our country is frustrated and angry with federal inaction on this issue, but
these tactics and the intolerance they spread are rejected by the vast majority
of our fellow Americans. That is why it's so disturbing that some members of the
Senate, the most deliberative of our legislative bodies, would ignore the
well-documented majority that supports an earned path to legality for the
country's undocumented immigrants and lend strength to the divisive tactics that
a vociferous minority has used to stop constructive debate in its tracks.

Sacrificing policy for politics is not new, but when senators argue that
inaction is justified because the American people do not trust them to do their
jobs - or because they are afraid to do so - maybe it's time to reevaluate who
is signing up for the position. After all, any issue we care deeply about - not
just immigration - will require character, political courage and determination
of our leaders.

The immigration issue will not go away. Those who claimed that inaction was a
victory are cheering a broken system that makes our borders less safe, our
economy less stable and our communities more vulnerable. This already untenable
situation probably will worsen in the absence of federal action, with state and
local governments enacting a patchwork of ineffective laws that cannot solve the
problem but may leave indelible marks on our quality of life. Employers, cops,
priests and even you and I may be called upon to act as immigration agents and
turn against our neighbors.

We already have seen anti-immigrant legislation in Missouri, and we probably
will see it again when the Legisature reconvenes. But Missourians and the rest
of America deserve better than that. The American people will continue to demand
a workable and fair solution that restores the rule of law, secures our borders,
strengthens our economy and upholds the values of faith, family and hard work
that are the cornerstone of our democracy.

Now we need to find leaders who will walk that path with us.

---

Joan Suarez chairs Missouri Immigrant & Refugee Advocates, an activist group
based in St. Louis.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  GOVERNMENT OTHER VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 10, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Legislator will resign in wake of guilty pleas

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 405 words


A legislator who pleaded guilty Thursday of helping hundreds of foreign truck
drivers enter the U.S. illegally will resign from the Missouri House, his lawyer
said.

Rep. Nathan Cooper, R-Cape Girardeau, pleaded guilty of two felonies: visa fraud
and making a false statement to the Department of Labor. He faces 30 to 37
months in federal prison under sentencing guidelines.

Officials said Cooper, 33, committed the crimes as an immigration lawyer, with
no connection to his elected duties or his close association with Gov. Matt
Blunt.

Cooper was working for trucking companies in southeastern Missouri and Arkansas
with a chronic problem - too few drivers. He used sham corporations to
manipulate immigration law covering temporary workers, his plea agreement says.

He obtained at least 260 visas intended for use by seasonal workers for six
months or less. Most went to residents of New Zealand, which Cooper's lawyer,
Joel Schwartz, said had a glut of truck drivers.

Cooper also bought "visa approval notices" from two contacts in the hospitality
and temporary worker industry, intending to use them for drivers whose visas had
expired.

He issued more than 100 so-called "120 day" notices on his own legal letterhead
as "an artifice to deceive, confuse or mollify" officials who might question a
driver's immigration status, court documents say.

Such a notice indicates that someone with an expired visa has an appeal pending,
Assistant U.S. Attorney James Crowe said.

Cooper agreed to forfeit the estimated $50,000 in income obtained from the
scheme, court documents say.

"This was not about making money," said Schwartz, the defense lawyer. He said
Cooper was attempting to fill his clients' need for drivers with a "creative"
approach, akin to looking for loopholes in tax law.

"It just was not done the correct way," Schwartz said.

Cooper is "distraught" and "very disappointed with himself," Schwartz said.

The lawyer said Cooper, elected in 2004, will resign from the legislature within
weeks, and also signaled that his client would give up his law license within
months, after wrapping up business for existing clients.

Cooper remained silent during reporters' questioning of Schwartz. Cooper did
shake his head "no" when asked if he had been outspoken on immigration issues in
the legislature.

Gov. Blunt released a statement Thursday afternoon commending federal
prosecutors and saying he would set a special election for the seat.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Cooper {St. Charles Second Edition, page C4 photo}

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Man is shot to death at his home Manager of Immigration Law Project here called
911 to say he was wounded.

BYLINE: By Terry Hillig and Phillip O'Connor ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 271 words


St. Louis police had no leads Saturday afternoon in the fatal shooting of a man
at his home in the 2000 block of North Market Street.

The victim, Dan Horkheimer, 29, was manager of Legal Services of Eastern
Missouri's Immigration Law Project.

Horkheimer made a 911 call about 9 a.m. Saturday and said he had been shot,
police spokesman Sgt. Sam Dotson said. When officers arrived, they found
Horkheimer dead in the front hallway of the home, Dotson said.

Detectives had no suspects and had not determined a motive for the crime, Dotson
said.

"They're really starting from scratch," he said.

Dotson said police found no shell casings or blood and no signs of a struggle
and saw no immediate indications of a robbery. He said police did not know
whether the shooting happened inside or outside the home.

Horkheimer was shot "at least once" in the abdomen, Dotson said.

Horkheimer's wife told police she left the home about an hour earlier and last
saw him outside painting windows.

Horkheimer began work at Legal Services as a volunteer with the Immigration Law
Project in September 2001 and became a full-time employee in 2003. He had been
manager of the project since October 2005.

Ann Lever, director of litigation at Legal Services, described Horkheimer as "a
prince" who rode his bicycle to work, taught English to immigrants and refugees
and was rehabbing his home.

"Dan was a guy with just a lot of quiet dignity," Lever said. "He was wonderful
representative for his clients."

Dotson said anyone with information that might be related to the crime should
call 911 or the St. Louis Regional Crime Stoppers Hot Line at 1-866-371-8477.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Time running out for Missouri student fighting deportation

BYLINE: By Sam Hananel The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When immigration reform legislation collapsed in the Senate earlier this year,
21-year-old Marie Gonzalez saw her hopes of living the American dream fade away
too.

Without a dramatic turnaround in Congress, Gonzalez, a Missouri college student
turned immigration activist, will be deported to Costa Rica next year to join
her parents in a bittersweet reunion. "Obviously it's been a terrible
situation," Gonzalez said in a telephone interview from Westminster College in
Fulton, Mo., where she's starting her junior year.

"It's made me grow up a lot sooner than what I would have originally chosen,"
she said. "It has not been an easy ride by any means."

Gonzalez, who was born in Alajuela, Costa Rica, hasn't been to the Central
American country since she was 5. That's when she and her parents came to the
United States on six-month visitor visas to search for a better life.

But Gonzalez's life has been in limbo since 2002, when an anonymous tip led to
questions about her father's immigration status. At the time, Marvin Gonzalez
was working as a courier and mail opener in Gov. Bob Holden's Jefferson City
office.

The Gonzalez family had missed out on their chance to apply for permanent
residence status through confusion about the legal paperwork required. Marvin
Gonzalez was promptly fired from his job, and he and his wife were deported to
Costa Rica in 2005.

Still, they wanted their daughter to stay and get her college education if she
could. Maria Gonzalez got a break when the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Agency granted her a one-year deferment from deportation in 2005 and
renewed it again last year. Her hope was that Congress would pass an immigration
reform measure that would let her and thousands of other illegal immigrant
students remain in the United States.

Gonzalez became an activist, speaking at rallies around the country and
traveling to Washington 11 times in support of legislation known as the DREAM
Act. The measure would allow an estimated 50,000 undocumented students who
entered the country before age 16 the chance to become permanent residents if
they attend college or enlist in the military.

But the DREAM Act failed to win approval last year and again this year, as part
of a broader immigration package that would have legalized many of the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States. Many conservatives
decried the package as "amnesty" for those who broke the law.

In April, federal officials told Gonzalez her deferment would be renewed for a
third and final time, giving her a firm deadline to leave the country by June
30, 2008.

"I have been very discouraged as of late because we've worked so hard for so
long to try to get it through," Gonzalez said. "Over the past few years, I've
met tons of students that are in similar situations. We want to be here, we want
a chance to live in this country, a chance to contribute, to give back to the
community."

Although she misses her parents, Gonzalez said life in the United States was the
only life she really knew. Since moving back to Costa Rica, Gonzalez said, her
parents are still struggling to make ends meet after being gone for 14 years.

Her mother has been working odd jobs, most recently teaching English at one of
the local elementary schools. Her dad worked as a chef at a resort for a while,
but it was in a city four hours away from his wife. He quit that job to be
closer to home and now works in the fishing industry.

Gonzalez can't visit her parents because she wouldn't be allowed back into the
United States. And they have been barred from returning here for 10 years.

"I want to live out my dreams, but I also hope they are a part of that," she
says of her parents. "My hope is to go to law school someday."

After her parents left, Gonzalez was taken in by her best friend's family in
Jefferson City. At Westminster, she lives in the dorm and has worked at a bank
and other jobs on campus to help pay for college. She's also taken out
international loans to help with school costs.

Last month, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said he would offer the DREAM Act as an
amendment to the Defense Department authorization bill when Congress returns
from its summer recess. He hopes to gain support for the measure because it
would help meet the demand for new military recruits.

"At a time when the military has lowered its standards due to serious recruiting
shortfalls, we should not underestimate the significance of these young people
as a national security asset," Durbin said.

Even removed from the larger immigration reform context, though, Durbin is
expected to face a tough time winning supporters. Many who oppose the idea of
allowing illegal immigrants a path to citizenship believe the DREAM Act is based
on the same underlying flaws.

"It says somehow that illegal immigrants aren't really illegal because they are
swell high school students and we just can't have that anymore," said John
Keeley, of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates stricter
enforcement of immigration laws. "Illegal means illegal."

Whereas children of illegal immigrants gain more sympathy because they usually
did not have a choice about entering the country illegally, Keeley blames the
parents for "placing their children in jeopardy by virtue of deportation
threats."

Gonzalez says she's not daunted by her critics.

"If people can honestly look at me in the face and say, 'You should leave,' I'm
sorry that they feel that way," Gonzalez said. "But I'm still going to keep
fighting."

Gonzalez is not counting on support from Missouri's senators either. Sen.
Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., helped Gonzalez win the deferment but is not
inclined to support the DREAM Act.

Spokeswoman Shana Marchio said that Bond was sympathetic, but that "he does not
support a unilateral change in the law to reward those who broke the law while
others who respect our laws patiently wait in line."

Adrianne Marsh, spokeswoman for Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said McCaskill
sympathized with Gonzalez but was not ready to take a position on the DREAM Act
without looking at the nuances of the proposal.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Marie Gonzalez, 21, a junior at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo.,
checks her schedule Monday. Gonzalez, a native of Costa Rica, is facing
deportation in 2008 unless legislation that would allow her to complete her
education is passed.  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Eagle Forum cheers anti-immigration message: 'The melting pot is broken'

BYLINE: By Jo Mannies Post-Dispatch Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: Frontenac


Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., asserted Friday that his anti-immigration message,
which brought a crowd here to its feet, is also dragging down his Republican bid
for the White House.

Why? "Money," or rather, lack of it, replied Tancredo, as he mingled with the
audience of activists with Eagle Forum, a social conservative group holding a
national meeting this weekend at the Frontenac Hilton.

The major presidential fundraisers, regardless of party, "are taking money from
executives with corporations that have a very big stake in this,'' Tancredo
said. They oppose his candidacy, he said, because big business favors "massive
importation of very cheap labor." But the Republican base does not, he added.

Tancredo drew supportive cheers during his speech when he declared, "Cheap labor
is cheap only to the employer. It costs the rest of us a fortune."

Tancredo blamed illegal immigrants for rising crime - "90 percent of the murder
warrants in LA are for illegal immigrants" - as well as the rising cost of
health care and the economic decline in the housing market.

Tancredo contends that illegal, and legal, immigrants are harming the nation
because many of the newcomers "refuse to assimilate."

Even many legal immigrants fail to learn English or embrace American culture,
choosing instead to keep their old customs and religion, he said. "The American
melting pot is broken."

He asserted that such practices are destroying the cultural ties that long bound
Americans together. The crowd roared in agreement when Tancredo shouted, "I'm
tired of pressing '1' for English, and '2' for Spanish!"

He also linked illegal immigration to the nation's fight against terrorism and
Islamic extremists. Tancredo asserted that some Iraqis were paying $50,000 to be
smuggled across U.S. borders.

They're avoiding coming through proper channels, he said, because they seek "to
do something dangerous."

Tancredeo acknowledged during in an interview after his speech that he's stuck
in the GOP's "second tier'' of presidential contenders. But he believes that he
has forced the Republican front-runners to be more forceful against illegal
immigration than they'd like.

Afterward, Eagle Forum president Phyllis Schlafly praised Tancredo's bravery,
while warning that social conservatives aren't happy with some of his
better-known Republican rivals.

Gazing around the ballroom, Schlafly said, "I don't think (New York Mayor Rudy)
Giuliani would get any votes here."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Tancredo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Digest

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 412 words


LOS ANGELES

Authorities raid doctors of Anna Nicole Smith

California authorities on Friday raided homes and offices of the doctors who
prescribed drugs to former Playboy Playmate Anna Nicole Smith.

At a news conference on the raids, state Attorney General Jerry Brown declined
to speculate on what charges the doctors - Smith's psychiatrist, Dr. Khristine
Eroshevich, and Dr. Sandeep Kapoor, who prescribed the painkiller methadone to
Smith - might face if it was determined they improperly prescribed drugs. But
Brown said there could be violations of the medical practice code.

Smith died of an accidental drug overdose in February at a Florida hotel. She
was 39.

SAN FRANCISCO

Landlords won't have to check immigration status

California has become the first state to prohibit landlords from asking tenants
about their immigration status, drawing sighs of relief from property owners who
were concerned they might have to be "de-facto immigration cops."

The law signed this week by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenneger prevents cities from
punishing landlords who rent to illegal immigrants. More than 90 communities
nationwide have tried to curb illegal immigration by proposing crackdowns on
property owners who rent to them or businesses that employ them, among other
measures.

Supporters of tighter immigration control said the California law would prevent
local governments from acting on an issue where the federal government has
failed.

NEW ORLEANS

Lawyers for Jena Six teen to appeal new jail term

Attorneys for Mychal Bell, 17, a black teenager whose prosecution in a racially
charged case helped inspire a massive demonstration last month, said they would
quickly appeal a judge's decision late Thursday to return Bell to jail.

LaSalle Parish District Judge J.P. Mauffray revoked Bell's probation and
sentenced him to 18 months in juvenile detention on two counts of simple battery
and two counts of criminal destruction of property. Those charges preceded and
were unrelated to a Dec. 4 assault on a white student at Jena High School in
Jena, La., for which Bell and five other black students, known as the Jena Six,
are still awaiting trial. National civil rights leaders say the Jena Six case
exemplifies unequal treatment of blacks in the mostly white town.

The high school incident followed months of racial fights in the town set off
after three white students hung nooses from a tree at the high school in a
warning directed at black students not to try to sit beneath its shade.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

State panel demands builders act as immigration cops

BYLINE: By Matthew Franck Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


A state panel voted Friday to crack down on illegal immigrants working at
state-subsidized construction projects. But it once again delayed action on two
O'Fallon projects that triggered the new policy.

The Missouri Housing Development Commission, by a unanimous vote, spelled out
tough sanctions for developers who fail to verify that workers at their job
sites are in the country legally.

Penalties range from minor fines to a lifetime ban from participating in state
programs that award tax credits for the construction of housing projects.

The action was endorsed by several officials, including Gov. Matt Blunt, Lt.
Gov. Peter Kinder, Attorney General Jay Nixon and Treasurer Sarah Steelman. All
are members of the commission and had representatives vote for the new policy.

But critics say the new policy tramples federal immigration law and could force
developers and contractors to violate privacy laws.

Jim Kistler, president of the Associated Builders and Contractors, Heart of
America chapter, said his group supports immigration enforcement but believes it
is a federal responsibility.

At issue is the degree to which developers and contractors can be required to
verify immigration status, and under what circumstances federally required
employment forms should be shared with the state.

The new policy requires federal I-9 forms, which authorize work eligibility, as
well as 1099 tax forms, to be made available to the state. The American Civil
Liberties Union has previously said those forms should not be used for that
purpose, a concern now shared by contractors.

Pete Ramsel, executive director of the housing commission, said privacy concerns
are addressed by ensuring that Social Security numbers are blacked out of the
documents.

The new policy goes beyond federal immigration law, requiring contractors to not
only gather work eligibility documents but also take steps to ensure the
information is accurate.

The commission has focused for months on illegal immigration after two projects
in O'Fallon were reported to have undocumented workers.

Most recently, several commissioners have sought to withhold roughly $1 million
in federal and state tax credits from Hennessey Development. The Clayton company
is suspected of hiring a subcontractor that used illegal labor at the
Southernside development in O'Fallon.

But the commission has stopped short of imposing sanctions. That was the case
again Friday, as the commission opted to wait until federal immigration
investigations are completed before acting.

In a similar move, the commission took no definitive action on the O'Fallon
Lakes project, where illegal workers were caught in 2006. The contractor in
charge at the time is no longer with the project.

Gundaker Commercial Group, which was a minority partner in the project at the
time of the arrests, has taken over and now wants an extra $4.86 million in
state tax credits to cover escalating costs.

Ramsel and the commission's staff praised the company for salvaging a
half-finished project and rooting out illegal workers.

But Jeff Schaeperkoetter, who represented Nixon at the meeting, criticized the
request for more money, calling it a bailout for a company that should have
known the development had problems.

The commission fell one vote shy of approving the added tax credits. But it gave
Gundaker another month to prove it needs the money.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Ex-legislator gets 15 months for immigration scheme Summary

BYLINE: By Cheryl Wittenauer The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 479 words


Former state Rep. Nathan Cooper, somber and tearful in federal court Monday, was
fined $6,000 and sentenced to 15 months in prison for an immigration fraud
scheme that derailed his political and legal careers.

Defense attorney Joel Schwartz said the crime had cost his client the two things
he cherished the most.

"The common thread of those who know him is that he did what he could to help
others," Schwartz told U.S. District Judge Jean Hamilton. "But that got him into
trouble."

Schwartz insisted that Cooper, 34, was well-intentioned, but Assistant U.S.
Attorney James Crowe Jr. said both Cooper and his scheme to deceive the state of
Missouri and the federal government were "sophisticated."

Afterward, outside the courtroom, Crowe told reporters "the most significant
part of the sentence is that a public official and a practicing lawyer is going
to go to jail."

Cooper, barely audible before the judge, apologized for disappointing his
friends and constituents, and said he would live with his crime "for the rest of
my life."

Outside the courtroom, he embraced many of his supporters and wept in their
arms. He refused to talk to reporters.

The Republican from Cape Girardeau, Mo., pleaded guilty in August to one count
each of visa fraud and making a false statement to the Department of Labor.

Cooper, who specialized in immigration law as an attorney, made the false
statement as part of an illegal scheme to obtain temporary worker visas for his
clients in the trucking business.

Cooper admitted that he applied for visas for fraudulent shell companies and
issued bogus letters about the immigration status of his clients' workers in the
trucking industry. He also admitted buying visas from others for illegal
transfer to his clients' workers.

Schwartz has said that in trying to help clients, Cooper crossed a line he
shouldn't have crossed.

Prosecutors said Cooper developed a scheme to persuade the government to issue
improper visas to trucking industry clients that had chronic shortages of
workers. In 2004 and 2005 alone, Cooper took in at least $50,000 in legal fees
from his trucking industry clients using those techniques, prosecutors have
said.

Cooper agreed to forfeit the illegal proceeds and stop representing employers
seeking such visas. Schwartz said he made the payment Monday.

Cooper is expected to start serving his time in six to eight weeks. He has asked
to be sent to the federal prison in Marion, Ill., but his placement hasn't been
decided. After serving his time, Cooper will be on two years of supervised
release.

He had faced up to 15 years in prison and fines of up to $500,000. He had been
free on bond. Schwartz asked that Cooper be allowed to voluntarily surrender to
federal authorities.

He resigned his Missouri House seat and surrendered his law license in August. A
special election Feb. 5 will decide who will fill the rest of his term.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Cooper

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Widow gets reprieve, avoids deportation Friends, lawyers, congressmen come to
her aid as immigration officials transported her for flight to France.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


As a distressed Corina Turcinovic sat in a white federal van bound for a Chicago
airport, it seemed her worst fear was about to become reality and she would be
deported from the country she sees as home.

Instead, the van suddenly turned around, making Tuesday one of the happiest days
of Turcinovic's life.

The immigrant who stayed in the U.S. after caring for her late, paralyzed
husband narrowly averted being deported after sympathetic friends, lawyers and
congressmen frantically scrambled on her behalf.

Not only was the 43-year-old not forced to board a plane headed to her native
France, but immigration officials set her free instead of returning her to the
jail where she had been held for more than three weeks.

"I'm in heaven," a giddy and laughing Turcinovic told The Associated Press by
cell phone less than 30 minutes after her release. "It's been really insane. I
can't believe I'm sitting here. I'm going to go and kiss my dog."

Turcinovic said she intended to go out later Tuesday and "take everyone who
helped me out for a steak dinner, on me."

Her attorney sought lawmakers' intervention throughout Tuesday as the clock
ticked toward a 6:19 p.m. flight time. The successful appeal was almost unheard
of, attorney John Colbert said.

"This is very rare, really unique," Colbert said. "It was so touch and go all
day."

Turcinovic, of Bordeaux, said she regarded the U.S. as her home after taking
care of her quadriplegic husband at their South Side home for more than a decade
until he died in 2004.

"It's a fun country, except when you get sent to jail," she laughed. "I have a
lovely life here, and great friends."

Turcinovic overstayed her visa while caring for her husband, Maro Turcinovic,
who was crossing a street on a visit to the U.S. in 1990 when a drunk driver hit
him. The Croatian native died before his own green card paperwork went through.

Colbert said he didn't know why authorities moved up Turcinovic's scheduled
deportation from Jan. 30, waking her in her McHenry County jail cell before dawn
Tuesday, placing handcuffs and leg shackles on her, then transferring her to a
Chicago detention center.

"I'm not sure they're being mean-spirited, and I don't think they are, I just
think they don't want any more heat here and just want to get rid of it," he
said.

Rep. Dan Lipinski, who introduced a bill last week that eventually could grant
Turcinovic resident status, said he spent much of Tuesday getting members of the
U.S. House Judiciary Committee to contact immigration authorities.

"It could not have been any more dramatic," the Democrat said. "But I'm very
happy with the result."

Lipinski hoped members of the Judiciary Committee would vote soon to request a
report from immigration authorities on Turcinovic's case, legislative action he
said would allow her to stay in the U.S. until at least the middle of next year.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement stopped Turcinovic's deportation "to
give Congress additional time to decide whether or not they will consider the
proposed bill granting her legal status," spokeswoman Gail Montenegro said.

Authorities showed "a great deal of compassion" by extending Turcinovic's visa
for years to enable her to care for her husband, Montenegro said.

"But the fact remains that Ms. Turcinovic has been residing in the U.S. without
authorization since August of 2004," she said. "And we're required to enforce
the nation's laws without regard to an individual's ability to generate media
attention."

Turcinovic immigrated to the U.S. on a visa waiver after her then-fiance's
accident. The couple moved to Chicago and married, living off savings and
settlement money from a malpractice lawsuit.

Corina Turcinovic lived legally in the U.S. for 14 years by applying for stays
of deportation on the humanitarian grounds she was her husband's caretaker.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 1, 2008 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Smiling and sparring mix at Obama-Clinton debate

BYLINE: By Tom Raum and Nedra Pickler THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton sought common ground Thursday
on basic Democratic policies on immigration, health care and tax relief in their
first one-on-one debate, but grew testy at times in trying to distinguish
themselves as the candidate best able to assume the presidency.

Just days before the Super Tuesday contests, the two alternated addressing each
other cordially with swipes, underscoring the high stakes of the upcoming
contests. The debate followed the report from Obama's campaign that he had
raised a staggering $32 million in January, cash aplenty to advertise throughout
the Super Tuesday states, with nearly two dozen contests from coast to coast,
and beyond.

One of their most pointed exchanges was on the subject of whether illegal
immigrants should be able to obtain drivers licenses. Obama supports doing so
while Clinton initially supported it and now opposes it.

"Sen. Clinton gave a number of different answers over the course of six weeks on
this," Obama said, turning to Clinton. "Initially, you said you were for it,
then you said you were against it." He said he was raising her apparent wavering
to underscore that it is "a difficult political issue."

Clinton called the controversy "a diversion" from efforts to come up with
comprehensive immigration reform. "I sponsored immigration reform before Barack
came to the Senate," she said.

Obama argued for his candidacy, saying: "I respect Sen. Clinton's record. I
think it's a terrific record. But I also believe that the skills that I have are
the ones that are needed right now to move the country forward, otherwise I
wouldn't be running for president."

Both predicted that one of them would be the next president in a history-making
inaugural, but then plunged into airing their differences on providing universal
health care insurance, meeting with leaders of rogue nations and on Iraq policy.

Clinton also emphasized the importance for the next president to be ready to
take over the job "on Day One."

"The next president will walk into the Oval Office and waiting there will be a
stack of problems," Clinton said. She said these included "an economy not
working for the vast majority of Americans."

It was their first one-on-one debate of the campaign season, televised by CNN.

The two also reached out quickly to backers of former rival John Edwards,
praising his efforts in their opening statements.

Obama called Edwards "a voice for this party and this country for many years to
come." Clinton saluted both Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, as setting "their
personal example of courage and leadership" in their advocacy for the poor.

Moments during the debate when the two candidates praised each other were mixed
with pointed jabs.

Obama pressed his theme that he is the candidate of change. Clinton said "having
the first woman president would be a huge change."

She also drew rounds of laughter in the Kodak Theatre - home of the Academy
Awards - when asked about the Bush-Clinton family control of the White House for
decades. "It did take a Clinton to clean after the first Bush and I think it
might take another one to clean up after the second Bush," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  COUNTDOWN TO SUPER TUESDAY o 4 DAYS UNTIL FEB. 5 Campaign 2008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Student's deportation divides town Schools can't question immigration status;
police may be allowed to do so.

BYLINE: By Deborah Baker The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: ROSWELL, N.M.


Karina Acosta's senior year at Roswell High came to an abrupt end after she was
ticketed for blocking a fire lane outside a school and driving without a
license.

The officer who stopped her - a Roswell policeman assigned to the school - asked
her for proof of legal U.S. residency. Acosta, an illegal immigrant, had none.
The officer telephoned immigration authorities, and Acosta, 18 and pregnant, was
sent back to Mexico.

The episode has caused a furor in town, with teachers and others complaining
that Acosta's treatment violates the spirit, if not the letter, of a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling that has all but made the nation's public schools havens
for illegal immigrants.

"The school was considered a place you could come and not have to worry," said
Coreta Justus, a teacher at 1,300-student Roswell High. She added: "My job is to
educate whoever walks in my classroom."

Complaining of racism and unfair treatment, students demonstrated on Main Street
and drew adult counterprotesters. Irate parents confronted school officials. The
police officer was taken off the school beat, and the program that put him on
the high school campus was suspended. At least one teacher reported that a few
students stayed away for weeks after the incident, afraid they would meet the
same fate as Acosta.

Three months later, Acosta's case is still dividing people in Roswell, a town
200 miles north of the Mexican border that has built a tourism industry around a
rumored UFO crash in 1947 that was supposedly covered up by the government.
Roswell, population 45,000, is at least 44 percent Hispanic.

Officer Charlie Corn reported that he spotted Acosta blocking a fire lane in
late November while she was dropping off a youngster at a middle school. Corn,
who was on traffic duty at the school, followed Acosta to the high school
nearby, discovered she had no license and ticketed her.

He gave her several days to produce proof of legal residency, after which he
called her into his campus office and contacted immigration authorities. They
immediately took her to a juvenile detention center, and she agreed to be sent
back to the Mexican state of Chihuahua rather than fight deportation.

A 1982 Supreme Court ruling guarantees children who are in the United States
illegally the right to a public education and says schools cannot inquire about
their immigration status. Federal authorities have a policy of not enforcing
immigration laws on school grounds.

But the question of whether police may do so is murkier.

Marisol Perez of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund said
Corn's actions were "certainly questionable and problematic." She said the case
was "just as egregious" as that of three students who were arrested at a high
school in Albuquerque in 2004 on immigration charges. The students sued the
police, who later settled.

Jennifer Moore, who teaches international human rights and refugee law at the
University of New Mexico, said making students vulnerable to deportation at
school was "making a mockery" of their right to public education.

And it is taking place "in the very place where they have the greatest chance at
getting the skills they need to participate in this society that they are living
in," she said.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Should schools be a haven for illegal immigrants? Talk
about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Demonstrators show support for deported high school student Karina
Acosta as they protest in Roswell, N.M., in December. Roswell Daily Record / The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Modern Know-Nothings

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 743 words


Congress won't give us a good national immigration policy, so the states are
coming up with their own. That leads to legal chaos, and Missouri may be
preparing to add to the confusion.

Last year, 46 states passed 194 immigration laws, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures. On top of that were proposed ordinances in
towns such as Valley Park, which wanted illegal immigrants out, and "sanctuary
cities" such as Oakland, Calif., which wants them in.

Dozens more laws are under consideration this year, a mish-mash of civil and
criminal restrictions involving drivers licenses, public benefits and private
employment.

The Missouri Senate recently passed perhaps the most bone-headed of the bunch.
It's so badly worded that it even puts innocent people in jeopardy. Perhaps the
House will straighten it out, but we wouldn't bet on it.

The bill would make it a felony to "transport" undocumented immigrants, and a
person wouldn't have to know the person's status to be in violation. Acting with
"reckless disregard" for the issue would be enough.

Could bus drivers and cabbies be collared for picking up immigrants who lack
documentation? Probably not, says law professor Stephen H. Legomsky at
Washington University. But such laws have a chilling effect. They create a fear
factor that leads to discrimination against legal residents. "After this passes,
I wouldn't want to be a Latino trying to hail a cab," he said.

Or applying for a job, either.

Knowingly hiring undocumented workers already is against federal law. The Senate
bill would create state penalties, too. An employer caught hiring such workers
would lose its business license for six months. A second offense could bring
permanent revocation - shutting the business down.

Employers would have an out if they used a federal online verification program
for hiring. But the new law might well give employers second thoughts about
hiring anyone with brown skin or an accent, legal or not. Why take the chance?

The bill also would deny drivers licenses, state loans, welfare, housing and
food assistance to undocumented immigrants. They already are ineligible for most
of those things, but the bill would enshrine the ban in state statutes.

The bill's authors wanted to ban all undocumented immigrants from Missouri's
state universities. Fortunately, Sen. Jeff Smith, D-St. Louis, managed to tone
down that rule. He offered an amendment exempting youngsters who spend three
semesters in a Missouri high school. The amendment passed.

This is foolish policy. People who risk death walking across deserts to get to
the United States aren't going to leave because they can't get into a state
college or get a state loan. Most are here for a single reason: There's work in
America but not much at home.

Immigration is a red-meat political issue in Missouri and around the country,
but the reason has more to do with emotion than economics or public safety.
Undocumented immigrants account for only about 1 percent of Missouri's
population, by most estimates. Many of the people work in low-paying
service-sector jobs. If they all went home tomorrow, farmers would have trouble
tending their crops, and restaurants would lose dishwashers. But that would do
little to help the average Missourian find a job.

The United States has a long, proud tradition of assimilating newcomers who
become new Americans. We're good at it. But that history has been accompanied by
waves of fear - fear of crime, fear of lost jobs, fear of different cultures,
fear of people who look and sound different.

These fears remain potent, and they make immigration ripe for any political
demagogue or TV talking head who wants to drag Know-Nothingism into the 21st
century.

Congress could end this - or, at least, ease the pressure - by passing a
rational immigration policy. Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona proposed
just such a policy last year. It would have tightened border security, set up a
guest-worker program and legalized some of the 12 million undocumented
immigrants already here. The idea died at the hands of anti-immigrant
politicians shouting "no amnesty."

Mr. McCain, feeling the political heat in his own party, has since backed off
his plan. Now he says we should secure the border first. Democrats in Congress
claim that the McCain campaign quietly put the kibosh on any immigration reform
until after the November election.

That's too bad. We'll either have one good immigration policy or 50 bad ones.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our View  |  Immigration OPINION

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2008



CORRECTION: The National Conference of State Legislatures says states passed 240
laws concerning immigrants last year, 44 more than the number that appeared in
an editorial in Wednesday's Post-Dispatch.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 12, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Many won't get rebates because spouse has no Social Security number

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


When Maulit Shelat heard about the government's plan to pump up the economy by
sending out stimulus checks, he sat down with his wife and drew up a list of
priorities: First up, remodeling the bathroom.

But Shelat is married to a foreigner who still hasn't completed the often
years-long process that allows her to apply for a Social Security number. Her
not having that number makes even him ineligible for the tax rebate checks that
started going out last week because they filed jointly.

He is among an estimated hundreds of thousands of taxpayers - from legal
immigrants to soldiers based abroad - who won't be getting a share of the
stimulus package because of a provision aimed at preventing illegal immigrants
from getting rebates.

"I would have fed this economy as well," said Shelat, an Indian chemical
engineer living with his wife and two children in the Buffalo, N.Y., area.

When lawmakers decided to send out the checks, ranging from $300 to $600 per
adult taxpayer, plus another $300 for each child, they formulated it so only
taxpayers who have Social Security numbers would qualify. The rule
unintentionally caught many taxpayers who would have qualified for the bonus,
except they filed jointly with a spouse whose immigration status doesn't allow
them to have a Social Security number.

Among them are some of the 288,000 troops stationed overseas who may have
married a foreigner.

It's not clear how many members of the armed forces posted abroad have married
foreigners. But officials in overseas bases say they can't do anything about the
Internal Revenue Service's policy.

There are also an estimated 1 million legal residents - immigrants with green
cards - who are waiting for their spouses' paperwork to be processed, according
to Paul Donnelly of Reform the Rebate, a group trying to push Congress to change
the rule. The IRS doesn't keep numbers of how many of that group are cut out of
the rebate because they filed jointly.

And many of the 600,000 to 800,000 highly skilled immigrants on work visas in
the U.S., like Shelat, have found themselves in the same position, having
married a foreigner.

Members of the Federation for American Immigration Reform lobbied against a
version of the bill that didn't require a Social Security number for the rebate,
worried about the prospect of illegal immigrants receiving checks. Spokesman Ira
Mehlman said the exclusion of legal immigrants and Americans married to
noncitizens was an unintended consequence.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Suspected vice ring bought ads, U.S. alleges Client says he answered notice that
appeared in Riverfront Times.

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: St. Louis


- Immigration authorities have uncovered what they believe was an international
ring that used a free newspaper and popular Internet site to advertise massage
services that were a front for prostitutes, federal court documents state.

The investigation centers around Maco Chor Sing Yeung, 51, of Hong Kong, who was
in court here Friday for a preliminary hearing. Prosecutors charged Yeung on
Wednesday last week with a single felony count of inducing an alien to reside in
the U.S. in violation of the law. They also want him held until trial,
suggesting that he is a flight risk.

Yeung's public defender declined to comment on the case. No information was
available on where Yeung was arrested.

An affidavit filed in court by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Special
Agent Tyson Imming lays out the investigation this way:

St. Peters police first alerted the immigration agency in January after they
arrested a suspected prostitute and a customer who was alleged to have assaulted
her.

The man told police he had answered an ad in the back of the Riverfront Times
promoting "Beautiful Asian Body Sensation" and performed a sex act with the
woman in a St. Peters motel. The fee, according to the ad, was $160 for 50
minutes.

Yeung told police that he had helped the woman, a 42-year-old on a tourist visa
from Taiwan, set up an ad on Craigslist.org but got no money for his aid.

The woman left the country but was caught trying to return March 6 and was
turned away.

Then the immigration agency discovered that Yeung had paid for the hotel room
for six weeks, in cash. Yeung rented another room at a St. Charles motel on Feb.
12, and would eventually pay for about six more weeks.

At the same time, more ads ran in the Riverfront Times and on Craigslist,
advertising "Asian body sensation" at $160 for 45 minutes.

A Maryland Heights police detective participated in a sting on March 20,
arresting a second suspected prostitute, who was wearing a negligee.

The woman told investigators that she had entered the U.S. illegally in 2001 and
was a prostitute. Agents asked if she'd been forced into prostitution and
whether she was able to leave at any time. She denied anyone "forced her to do
anything she didn't want to do," the affidavit states.

On April 8, an agent subpoenaed advertising and billing records from the
Riverfront Times and learned that Yeung, using another name, had bought ads as
far back as January 2007.

In an interview with federal agents May 20, Yeung, through a Cantonese
interpreter, denied being involved with prostitution and said that he had rented
rooms for five women in the St. Louis area and brought several women from
Chicago. Others arrived on their own.

Yeung said that he was helping the women rent the rooms because they didn't
speak English, according to court records. He also said that he suspected they
might be involved in prostitution, but he didn't ask.

At the same time Yeung was being interviewed, other agents called the number
used in the ads and met another negligee-clad woman from Taiwan in an Earth City
motel room. They found $8,770 in cash in the freezer of the room's small
refrigerator and a notebook with dates and dollar amounts, "consistent with
prostitution ledgers," the affidavit states.

The woman told agents that she had entered the country illegally with a tourist
visa.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Appeals board upholds deportation 83-year-old Wisconsin man is accused of being
a guard at Nazi concentration camp.

BYLINE: By Frederic J. Frommer the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal appeals board has upheld a deportation order for a Wisconsin man who
served as a Nazi concentration camp guard during World War II, the Justice
Department announced Monday.

The federal Board of Immigration Appeals upheld a deportation order issued in
January 2007 against Josias Kumpf, 83, of Racine, who had served as a guard at
the Trawniki training camp in Nazi-occupied Poland and the Sachsenhausen
concentration camp near Berlin. The Board of Immigration Appeals is part of the
Justice Department.

Last year's deportation order, issued by Chicago-based immigration Judge Jennie
Giambastiani, called for Kumpf's removal to Germany, Austria or Serbia. Kumpf
still can appeal the deportation order in the federal court system.

In 2005, a federal judge in Milwaukee stripped Kumpf's U.S. citizenship,
concluding that he "personally assisted" in the persecution of prisoners. That
judge, Lynn Adelman, said Kumpf arrived at Trawniki no more than a day after
8,000 Jewish prisoners were killed at an adjoining labor camp in 1943.

Adelman wrote that Kumpf "stood guard near the pits where the massacre occurred
with instructions to shoot prisoners who attempted to escape, including those
who in his words were 'still halfway alive.'"

The judge also found that when Kumpf applied for an immigrant visa to the United
States in 1956, he did not disclose that he had been an SS guard because he
feared it would disqualify him.

Acting Assistant Attorney General Matthew Friedrich said in a statement that
Kumpf participated in an operation that resulted in the murder of thousands of
innocent victims.

"His culpability in this atrocity does not diminish with the passage of time,"
Friedrich said. The Board of Immigration Appeals ruling, he added, "bolsters the
department's continuing efforts to ensure that those who took part in the crimes
of the Nazi Holocaust are not allowed to enjoy the privileges and freedom the
United States offers its citizens."

In 2003, the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, along with
the local U.S. attorney's office, moved to strip Kumpf of his citizenship.
Kumpf, who was born in Serbia, said in an interview at the time that he was
taken from his home in Yugoslavia as a 17-year-old and forced to serve as a
guard, but he did not participate in any atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 7, 2008 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Exhibit calls attention to U.S. immigration policies 'A Declaration of
Immigration' runs through Sept. 7 at the National Museum of Mexican Art in
Chicago.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A window washer dressed as Spiderman scales a building. A nanny clad as Cat
Woman attends to children. A pizza deliveryman wearing Superman garb rides a
bike with pies in the basket.

The humorous photographs by Mexican artist Dulce Pinzon depict real immigrant
workers in their everyday jobs. But the images also proclaim them as super
heroes who work grueling hours to make a better life for their families.

It's an idea inextricably linked to the immigrant experience in America and one
that echoes throughout a new exhibit at the National Museum of Mexican Art in
Chicago.

The collection, called "A Declaration of Immigration," is designed to challenge
U.S. immigration policies and call attention to unsuccessful attempts at reform,
according to the museum's president Carlos Tortolero.

"Immigration affects the whole world," he said. "Immigrants are human beings who
live in this country and contribute to this country. To be pro-America, you have
to be pro-immigrant."

The approximately 100 pieces - paintings, photographs, sculptures, quilts and
artifacts - run the gamut of the immigrant experience.

Quilts tell the story of Hmong immigrants. Photographs show a Korean family's
appreciation of Elvis and soccer. A retablo of carved figurines depicts the
harrowing journeys some immigrants make to arrive in the U.S.

Tortolero got the idea for the exhibit about two years ago when Congress
approved a fence along the U.S. border with Mexico. He said he was disturbed
that both presidential candidates Sens. John McCain and Barack Obama voted for
the fence. So he sees the exhibit as a way to open a discussion about
immigration reform, particularly in a presidential election year.

A large sign at the entrance of the exhibit mimics the U.S. Declaration of
Independence, proclaiming that America is "a nation of immigrants."

It also says that "the construction of the wall along the United States-Mexico
border would stand as a symbol of persecution, much like the 20th century Berlin
Wall."

Several pieces criticize the Department of Homeland Security, particularly
immigration policies such as fingerprinting foreigners at airports.

Portraits by Danish artist Anni Holm feature the faces of three women from
India, Colombia and Italy; their faces are composed of fingerprints.

Other works are haunting.

In a series of oil paintings by Ana Fernandez, a woman completes menial tasks in
outdoor landscapes. In one, she vacuums the border at San Diego and Tijuana,
Mexico. Written on the border wall is, "No puedo pasar indiferente ante el dolor
de tanta gente," which translates roughly as, "I cannot cross (the border)
indifferently without acknowledging the pain of so many people."

Other paintings and drawings depict non-citizen immigrants who have fought in
U.S. wars abroad.

A comic book-like drawing by Eric J. Garcia shows a "G.I. Jose" poised with a
gun. A line underneath him reads, "Always treated as foreigners except when
needed to kill foreigners." Nearby an Uncle Sam figure says "Se Habla Espanol."

The exhibit also reflects the lighter side of immigrant life.

One installation, called "Phone Home" by Mario Ybarra, is a glass case full of
colorful international calling cards. Another piece by Alejandro Diaz shows a
series of tongue-in-cheek handwritten signs. One reads: "No Mexicans/No
Tacos/You Better Think Twice America."

Also included in the exhibit is a photograph of a 2006 immigrant rights march in
Chicago when more than 100,000 people took to the streets. There's also a
portrait of immigration activist Elvira Arellano, who defied a deportation order
and lived in a Chicago church for a year with her U.S. citizen son. It's called
"Sorrowful Mother."

The exhibit opened Friday and runs through Sept. 7. The National Museum of
Mexican Art is in the Pilsen neighborhood at 1852 W. 19th St., is open from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday, and has a website,
nationalmuseumofmexicanart.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - This image shows a detail from "C Jane Run," a work that is part of an
exhibit on immigrant life at the National Museum of Mexican Art in Chicago. The
image, which is on fiber, was created by Consuelo J. Underwood.  National Museum
of Mexican Art | The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Obama says he's unaware of aunt's immigration status

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 416 words


CHICAGO - Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama said Saturday that he
didn't know his aunt was living in the United States illegally and believes that
laws covering the situation should be followed.

The Associated Press found that Obama's aunt had been instructed to leave the
country four years ago by an immigration judge who rejected her request for
asylum from her native Kenya. The woman, Zeituni Onyango, is living in public
housing in Boston and is the half sister of Obama's late father.

A statement given to the AP by Obama's campaign said, "Senator Obama has no
knowledge of her status but obviously believes that any and all appropriate laws
be followed."

An adviser to Republican John McCain's campaign, Mark Salter, said he had no
comment on the reports about Obama's relative. "It's a family matter," Salter
said.

The Obama campaign said it was returning $260 that Onyango had contributed in
small increments to Obama's presidential bid over several months. Federal
election law prohibits foreigners from making political donations.

Obama was raised for the most part by his mother and her parents in Hawaii. He
first met his father's side of the family when he traveled to Africa 20 years
ago. He referred to Onyango as "Auntie Zeituni" when describing the trip in his
memoir, saying she was "a proud woman."

Obama's campaign said he had seen her a few times since that meeting, beginning
with a return trip to Kenya with his future wife, Michelle, in 1992. Onyango
visited the family in Chicago on a tourist visa at Obama's invitation about nine
years ago, the campaign said.

She attended Obama's swearing-in to the U.S. Senate in 2004, but campaign
officials said Obama provided no assistance in getting her a tourist visa and
doesn't know the details of her stay.

Onyango's refusal to leave the country would represent an administrative,
noncriminal violation of immigration law, meaning such cases are handled outside
the criminal court system.

The AP could not immediately reach Onyango for comment.

Onyango's case - coming to light just days before the presidential election -
led to an unusual nationwide directive within Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement requiring that any deportations before Tuesday's election be
approved at least at the level of the agency's regional directors, a U.S. law
enforcement official told the AP.

The directive suggests that the administration is sensitive to the political
implications of Onyango's case coming to light so close to the election.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Texans worry about their side of fence 'It's not going to work in Texas,' says
one cattle rancher.

BYLINE: By Lynn Brezosky The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: MISSION, TEXAS


Jeff Reed offers outdoor dining on the Rio Grande at his restaurant, Pepe's on
the River. But with the U.S. government planning to build 700 miles of fence
along the Mexican border, he has to wonder: Will his restaurant soon be "Pepe's
on the Fence"?

Downriver in Brownsville, Texas, where the jalapeno and lima bean fields run
down to the water's edge, farmer Fermin Leal is wondering whether the government
intends to cut through his crops, run irrigation pipes under the fence or buy
him out.

"Most of our land goes up to what's supposed to be the border, and yes, we need
access to river water," Leal said.

President George W. Bush signed a law Thursday to build more fences along the
border to secure it against illegal immigrants, drug smugglers and terrorists.
Republicans in Congress see it as their most significant accomplishment on
immigration. The president called it "an important step in our nation's efforts
to secure our borders."

But up and down Texas' watery boundary with Mexico, farmers, ranchers and
business owners are worried that a fence will endanger their livelihoods and
encroach on their property.

Texas landowners are sick of illegal immigrants cutting their fences, stealing
and trespassing, and tired of worrying about smugglers of humans and drugs
endangering their families. They have been demanding for years that Congress
tighten the border.

But not, some say, with a double-layer, $6 billion fence cutting through their
land and keeping them and their livestock from the river.

"It's not going to work in Texas," said Michael Vickers, who owns a cattle ranch
on the border. "Who wants to close off the river to Mexico? The river is the
lifeblood for a lot of cities."

Vickers worries that either his land will be cut off from the rest of the state
-- and the country -- or he will lose access to 50 acres of water rights he has
and can sell to area municipalities for up to $2,000 an acre.

The exact route the fences will take is not yet clear. And it is not yet known
what the fences will look like -- how tall they will be, whether they will be
solid walls, or bars.

Much of the land along the Texas side of the river is privately owned, some
dating back to Spanish land grants. The government's $1.2 billion "down payment"
on the fences is only a fraction of the estimated cost, which will also include
the expense of compensating property owners for any land taken through eminent
domain.

Environmentalists say the fence also would destroy decades of government work
building up wildlife corridors to allow endangered species such as ocelots and
jaguarundi access to the river.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Jeff Reed, co owner of Pepe's on the River in Mission, Texas, looks
over the Rio Grande from the restaurant last week. Reed wonders how the building
of a wall along the border will affect the business. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Civil rights group sues immigration agency over raids

BYLINE: By Giovanna Dell'orto The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


A civil rights group sued the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
Wednesday, claiming its agents had harassed five U.S. citizens of Mexican
descent during raids targeting illegal immigrants in southeast Georgia.

The Southern Poverty Law Center said the agents were engaging in a
"Gestapo-like" campaign to drive Hispanics out of the area. It claimed the
agents entered houses without warrants, stopped cars on the street, terrified
Hispanics and vandalized their property.

"They trampled on the constitutional rights of every person of Hispanic descent
who was unfortunate to be in their way," said Mary Bauer, an attorney with the
center who is representing the plaintiffs.

The center, based in Montgomery, Ala., wants an injunction preventing the agency
from conducting similar raids, as well as unspecified compensation for the
plaintiffs.

Agency spokesman Marc Raimondi called the accusations "patently false."

He said agents were looking only for immigrants who used fraudulent documents to
work at a local poultry plant.

The complaint concerns a sweep in which more than 120 illegal immigrants were
rounded up around Stillmore in rural southeastern Georgia.

The arrests started at the Crider Inc. poultry plant Sept. 1. Over the Labor Day
weekend, agents converged on workers' homes after getting the addresses of
suspected illegal immigrants from Crider's files.

Agents raided the house where Marie Justeen Mancha, 14, was alone getting ready
for school, she said. She said she had unlocked the door thinking her mother was
returning home and found instead several agents in her house, one of whom had
his hand on a holstered gun.

"It scares me," Mancha said. "I thought me being born in the U.S., they couldn't
do this."

Mancha said the agents asked her whether she or her mother, who had worked at
the Crider poultry plant, were here illegally, then left after about five
minutes. Her mother, Maria Christina Martinez, said she was born in Florida and
was the only adult living in the house.

Another plaintiff alleges that agents stopped her as she was driving home,
repeatedly called her a Mexican and pulled her out of her car. After she
insisted she was born in Texas and had a valid Georgia drivers license, agents
let her go, according to the lawsuit.

The agency, its heads, and the 30 agents involved in the raid are listed as
defendants.

Raimondi declined to comment on the specifics of the accusations but said race
and ethnicity play no role in the agency's work. The agency is reviewing the
accusations but its enforcement work is continuing, he said.

A sixth plaintiff in the case is a trailer park landlord who claims his property
was damaged when federal agents broke into numerous trailers.

The federal government has reported that Georgia had the fastest-growing illegal
immigrant population in the country. The number more than doubled from an
estimated 220,000 in 2000 to 470,000 last year. This year, state lawmakers
passed some of the nation's toughest measures targeting illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  In behalf of Hispanics Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Medicaid rules spark worry over infant care But groups raising concern cite no
specific cases where treatment was denied for illegal immigrants' newborns.

BYLINE: By Kevin Freking The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Several health groups are concerned that babies born to illegal immigrants could
be denied essential medical care such as immunizations and physicals because of
recent changes to Medicaid.

The babies automatically are U.S. citizens because they were born in U.S.
hospitals. Under past policy, the groups said, the government required states to
provide the babies with a full year of eligibility for Medicaid, the health
insurance program for the poor.

Now, mothers of the newborns will have to apply for Medicaid on behalf of their
newborns, which many will not want to risk, say groups such as the American
Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians and the March
of Dimes.

Medicaid officials are skeptical about the groups' claims.

Leslie V. Norwalk, acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said in an interview Thursday that her agency investigated
and found no case where a baby was denied care under Medicaid.

"If people know of an instance where a state has denied eligibility because
someone couldn't produce evidence of citizenship, in particular among the most
vulnerable, we would be interested in knowing about that," she said.

New federal rules say a child born in the United States to "an illegal alien
mother is not a deemed newborn" -- and therefore not automatically eligible for
Medicaid. States may make exceptions on the basis of income.

The rules were in response to a new law designed to ensure that only citizens or
qualified legal immigrants gain access to Medicaid.

The medical groups said denying newborns access to Medicaid would cost the
health care system more in the long run.

"Preventive care saves money for states that provide Medicaid coverage and the
federal government that helps pay for it," the groups wrote the Medicaid agency.
"Some infants require immediate post-delivery care for conditions or illnesses
detected immediately after birth."

The organizations said some doctors, already facing reduced Medicaid
reimbursements, would be reluctant to care for these children.

The letter did not cite any specific cases where care had been denied. But the
American Academy of Pediatrics had singled out four states ? Georgia, Kentucky,
Tennessee and Virginia ? as denying health care coverage to babies born to
illegal immigrants.

Asked Thursday for specifics, the pediatric group could not provide statistics.
Instead, the organization cited the potential for care being withheld.

Norwalk said her agency contacted each of the four states. Medicaid directors
there knew of no cases where access to the program had been denied to babies of
illegal immigrants, she said.

Dr. Martin Michaels, president of the academy's Georgia chapter, said
documenting a baby's eligibility for Medicaid is as simple as submitting a page
from the child's medical record showing the child was born in Georgia. But the
question is whether families will be willing to do that.

"Some families will be afraid they could get deported and separated from the
child," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigration and health Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Texas town weighs plan to dissuade illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Anabelle Garay The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: FARMERS BRANCH, Texas


This Dallas suburb could become the first city in Texas to adopt a sweeping
ordinance intended to keep out illegal immigrants, which is a cause for concern
among its large minority population.

More than 50 municipalities nationwide have considered, passed or rejected laws
banning landlords from leasing to illegal immigrants, penalizing businesses that
employ undocumented workers and making English the official local language.

But until now, that trend hasn't been matched in the Lone Star State.

"This is the first town in Texas that had the guts to do what's right," Susie
Hart, who grew up in Farmers Branch, said during a recent demonstration outside
City Hall. "The education system is tanking, health care has gone through the
roof, everybody is bilingual."

Such sentiments and the proposed ordinance trouble many people in Texas, where
many Latino families can trace their roots here to the era before statehood.

Elizabeth Villafranca said she worries that such laws will spread to other
cities if the City Council approves the proposal. The measure is expected to be
submitted to the council today, but there was no indication when it might be put
to a vote.

Since 1970, Farmers Branch has changed from a small, predominantly white bedroom
community with a declining population to a city of almost 28,000 people, about
37 percent of them Hispanic, according to the Census Bureau.

It also is home to more than 80 corporate headquarters and more than 2,600 small
and mid-size firms, many of them minority-owned.

The local debate over illegal immigration began in August and spawned
demonstrations on both sides of the issue.

A councilman has given city attorneys drafts of an ordinance that would make
English the city's official language and proposals to fine companies and
landlords who do business with illegal immigrants.

The Farmers Branch proposal follows action this year in Valley Park, Mo., where
aldermen passed a law that penalizes business owners for hiring and landlords
renting to illegal immigrants. The measure is on hold pending a legal challenge.

In Hazleton, Pa., officials passed a measure that would fine landlords who rent
to illegal immigrants, deny business permits to companies that employ them and
require tenants to register and pay for a rental permit. A federal judge
temporarily blocked enforcement of the Hazleton ordinance while he considers a
lawsuit against the town by several groups.

Many of the towns and counties have based their ordinances on a model provided
by the Immigration Reform Law Institute, which favors limits on immigration and
is affiliated with the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Critics fear the spread of such rules will lead to sanctioned discrimination and
racism.

"It's basically saying those people are illegal in their very nature; it is all
right to be against them because they are lawbreakers, said Cesar Perales,
president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. "Many people are
assuming that all immigrants are lawbreakers, and that people who are different,
who speak a different language, are to be shunned.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; MAP
 PHOTO -  Natalie Villafranca, 6, and her mother, Elizabeth Villafranca, join
more than 300 people Saturday at a demonstration in Farmers Branch, Texas,
against local illegal immigration legislation. L.M. Otero | The Associated Press
MAP - (Locator map for Farmer's Branch, TX.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C10

LENGTH: 1558 words


Immigration issue is solved with fines, jail time

In the editorial "A ladder to citizenship" (Nov. 25), the Post-Dispatch states
that reform must come in three parts. I agree, but my view is slightly
different. The editorial wants "practical accommodation for the 12 million
illegal immigrants who already are here." My idea: Stop providing medical care
and free education. Make it difficult or impossible to get a job. Give all
illegal immigrants a choice: 90 days to get out with no penalty. Then, they can
get in line for legal immigration like everyone else. Otherwise, when they are
found, they are deported immediately and barred from immigrating here legally.

The editorial states: "American businesses, especially in the agriculture and
service sector, don't want them to go." Well, too bad. We need to apply punitive
measures to any business that hires illegal immigrants. We must target the
business and its owners or board of directors. I suggest fines and the loss of
all government funding, loans and contracts for employers caught employing
illegal immigrants. A second occurrence would include jail time for the owner,
chief executive or members of the board and the loss of any business license.
Any tax-exempt organization that aids illegal immigrants loses its tax-exempt
status. We should cut off federal funding to any municipality that fails to
uphold the law.

The editorial also wants "a higher limit on the number of visas for knowledge
workers ... where there is a shortage of licensed, qualified U.S.
professionals." I agree, but why don't we encourage our children to study
science, medicine and mathematics? We are turning out way too many lawyers and
far too few engineers.

James R. Fischer | Warrenton

Increased dependence

The story "A greener Congress" (Nov. 26) proclaims that the Democrats will have
a "greener" Congress and that they vow to address "environmental concerns." The
first concern listed is rolling back tax cuts for big oil companies. This is an
environmental concern? Seems as if they want to increase our dependence on
foreign oil.

David R. Anderson | Warson Woods

Cooperation will lessen pain

I am a member of a citizens group working to improve the safety of our roads.
Missouri Department of Transportation engineers are helpful and responsive.
Their problem is insufficient funding. MoDOT has nearly twice as many miles of
state-maintained roads as Illinois but far less funding. Missourians usually
vote against fuel tax increases.

I realize the immense controversy surrounding the U.S. Highway 40/Interstate 64
improvement, but area leaders have been telling MoDOT for many years that the
highway must be improved for the benefit of the whole region. Director Pete
Rahn's design-build concept is his answer to getting the work done with
available dollars. Alternatives would cost far more and take far longer. The I64
bridges must be replaced for safety reasons. Doing nothing is not an option.
Perhaps MoDOT could have coordinated better with the huge number of groups
affected by the closing. MoDOT will make this as painless as possible if people
will just work together.

James Terry | House Springs

"Gotcha!" cams

Regarding "Lights, camera, traffic ticket" (Nov. 26): I'm new to St. Louis,
having moved from the Washington, D.C., area. The camera debate is just getting
started here, but in many places, it's settled law. Folks who think they can
challenge these cameras in state or federal courts are barking up the wrong
tree; too many people find the increased revenue appealing.

In northern Virginia, where I used to live, these cameras popped up like weeds
more than 10 years ago. The cities experience a windfall of cash in the first
year or two. Gradually, the profit tapers off because drivers memorize which
intersections have cameras. This leads to a cat-and-mouse game: The city will
shorten the length of yellow lights to regain revenue. I treated a yellow light
as a red light, lest I get my photo taken.

I encourage Missourians to think hard about this. In Washington, D.C., there are
not only red light cameras, but also radar cameras. Unmarked (and unmanned)
police cruisers are placed along the shoulder of an interstate, and any cars
speeding by get a bill - ticket - in the mail a few weeks later. It's an
eye-opening experience to receive a photo of your car, along with a note saying
you were caught going 59 miles per hour in a 50 mph zone. Think you can
challenge this in court? There are mail-in challenge procedures, but you won't
win. They've got you.

Dan Crepeau | St. Louis

Money, money, money

Regarding traffic cameras: Multiple studies in the Washington, D.C., area (and
other East Coast cities) show that rear-end collisions become more common as
motorists become gun-shy about intersections. This most likely is a response to
shortened yellow-light duration to maximize revenue (shown by the same studies).

The state makes sure that drivers know and understand traffic laws and rules of
the road. As these rules and laws change, the state ensures that drivers know
the laws. But I have yet to see a description of the traffic cameras. When does
the camera "shoot," and when is a violation indicated? Is it when a vehicle
enters or leaves the intersection? Will the rules be the same from jurisdiction
to jurisdiction, or will motorists be issued crystal balls when they renew their
license tags?

Will the various governments begin to implement a more intelligent policy
regarding stop lights or right-turn-on-red restrictions? Probably not.

Cities argue that they will collect a lot of money from nonresidents. But no
matter how much money is collected, taxes won't go down because they will find
some other thing to spend it on.

Citizens should be allowed to vote on this, since it looks like, walks like,
sounds like and smells like a tax. Someone should take this to court. This is a
money issue, and it's our money going into their pockets.

Joseph A. Delia | Weldon Springs

Here's a hint

As usual, Bill McClellan is right on the money ("Santa's got his work cut out
for him," Nov. 27). St. Louis Board of Education President Veronica O'Brien
really does need to get a clue for Christmas. Or how about just a hint?

If we all send her a Bic pen, maybe she'll take the hint and sign her
resignation. Then it would be a happy holiday for all the good citizens of St.
Louis.

Pat Tovo | St. Louis

Diversity in the D party

Since when do Americans who call themselves Democrats have to agree with
everything every other Democrat thinks or believes? Are there no pro-life
Democrats? How about Democrats who supported the Iraq war? Does it even need to
be stated that Democrats, like most Americans, are a diverse group? To accuse
Donayle Whitmore-Smith, a new member of the Missouri Board of Education, of not
being a Democrat because she supports school vouchers is both short-sighted and
dangerous ("Is new appointee an advocate or enemy?" Nov. 23). The Democratic
Party should have learned from its mistakes by now.

I am a lifelong Democrat who believes in public schools, but I have used private
schools when my home district could not meet the needs of my children. Ms.
Whitmore-Smith is right: You can be an advocate of public schools and still
support tax-funded vouchers to send kids to private schools. Competition can be
a good thing. More importantly, public schools could learn a lot from private
schools, many of which do a better job of educating kids, and they do it with
fewer resources and smaller faculties. Ms. Whitmore-Smith brings a diverse
background and a much-needed vision to the state school board. The other seven
members and all of Missouri's school children will benefit from her appointment.
Gov. Matt Blunt finally got something right.

Beth von Behren | Olivette

Ordinary people

Regarding "Obama calls for phased pullout" (Nov. 21): Why the Post-Dispatch
would put this report from a novice and political light-weight on its front page
is a mystery to me. There was nothing new or insightful in what U.S. Sen. Barack
Obama, D-Ill., said. Was he reading from a script prepared by a committee with
its fingers on the pulse of left-leaning opinion polls?

After reading what Mr. Obama said, I realized that I, along with a few million
other ordinary people, have much greater wisdom about global political events
than does Mr. Obama.

Conrad Carlton | Ste. Genevieve

Peace? Not in Colorado

In Colorado, the Loma Linda Homeowners Association ordered a resident to remove
a seasonal wreath that bears a peace sign "Wreath with peace sign stirs up
subdivision," Nov. 27). Neighbors were offended by it.

So much for "Peace on Earth" when peace is barred from the yard. Forget about
"Good will toward men" - harassment is in.

Given the Loma Linda attitude, I'd rather be in Granite City.

Casey Croy | St. LouisRemembering Ed Bradley

Cordell Whitlock's column, "My godfather, Ed Bradley" (Nov. 23) was a wonderful
treat on Thanksgiving Day. I enjoyed Ed Bradley's journalistic talents for many
years. His investigative reporting set the standard for the media. His integrity
and competence will be missed.

Mr. Whitlock is doing his godfather proud. Mr. Whitlock brings the same type of
professionalism and competence that Mr. Bradley brought to the job. Mr. Whitlock
has been and remains a solid and engaging presence within the St. Louis media
scene.

Michael W. Sei Sr. | Maryland Heights

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: YOUR VIEWSOPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Deported after 39 years, illegal alien has one last appeal

BYLINE: THE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: CUAUHTEMOC, Mexico


Humberto Fernandez keeps his clothes in plastic bags and boxes, trying to
convince himself that his two-year stay here is temporary.

Deported from the United States 39 years after he entered it illegally,
Fernandez's hopes of a quick return to his wife and son in Utah were crushed in
June, when the U.S. Supreme Court upheld his deportation and barred him from
seeking legal U.S. residence.

He is now clinging to the chance of a consular waiver, which would allow him
back in as a special case because of the hardship to his family.

The United States, says Fernandez, "is my country. That's where I spent most of
my life. I don't want to be here. I want to be with my family."

For people on either side of the immigration debate, Fernandez could be used as
a poster child for the system's failings. He managed to build a full life in the
United States without ever being a legal resident, even though he was deported
three times. Culturally, he is an American.

186,600 deported

Deportations have been increasing as the United States cracks down on immigrants
caught in raids or arrested for crimes.

In the 12 months leading to Sept. 30, 186,600 illegal migrants were deported,
nearly four times more than in 1995, the year before a new law mandating the
expulsion of illegal migrants who have returned illegally after being deported.

Fernandez, 54, was born in Cuauhtemoc but says he ran away from home at age 13
to escape poverty and a father who beat him. Two years later, he crossed
illegally into the United States by claiming that he was a citizen.

He lived in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Wyoming and Colorado. He was
deported once for driving illegal immigrants from Arizona to Idaho for a
smuggler in the 1970s, again for failing to mention his previous deportation
when applying for residency in Wyoming, and finally after he drove with a broken
taillight and had no papers to show police.

He was never charged for driving the illegal immigrants, and other than
immigration violations and minor traffic infractions, has no criminal record.

A life in Utah

He returned illegally to the United States in 1981, and settled in Ogden, where
he met his American wife, Rita Fernandez. They raised a son, now 17.

"There I clung to life, to a beautiful life," said Humberto Fernandez, holding
back tears.

He bought a small two-bedroom house. In 2003, after working as a truck driver
for a metal salvage company, he had saved enough to buy his own semi.

Two months later, he was arrested at the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services in Salt Lake City as he applied for a green card based on
his marriage. Officials detained him because he had been deported before. After
a year in a Utah jail, Fernandez was sent to Mexico on Sept. 9, 2004.

Pro bono lawyers took his case all the way to the Supreme Court, arguing that
the 1996 law mandating deportations for people caught re-entering the country
illegally didn't apply because he entered more than a decade before the law was
passed.

The court disagreed, ruling that the Illegal Immigration and Immigrant
Responsibility Act revoked Fernandez's right to appeal the final deportation
order.

The ruling affects thousands of illegal migrants who were deported, leaving
behind U.S.-born children or wives.

"We had hoped the law would change, not only for my husband, but for so many
families who have been torn apart," Rita Fernandez said by telephone.

Humberto Fernandez lives in a spartan room in the home of his sister's neighbors
in exchange for help running errands.

He found work as a driver at an apple orchard earning $60 for a six-day
workweek. That's just enough to pay a doctor and for his arthritis medication,
he said. In the United States, he said, he earned up to $1,000 a week.

Socially, he remains an outsider. "They still call me gringo."

Fernandez says his wife's support is all that has prevented him from committing
suicide. She calls twice a week but can't afford to help financially on her $816
monthly salary as a shop clerk.

Rita Fernandez says she has sold all her furniture to make ends meet. She's
saving for a trip over Christmas. "They have broken my family," Rita Fernandez
said, sobbing.

She said that if the consular waiver falls through, she will move to Mexico.

"When I married him, I did it for better or for worse," she said. "I can't just
give him up because the government says we can't be together."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
PHOTO - Humberto Fernandez walks with his nephew recently in Cuauhtemoc, Mexico.
Fernandez was deported from the United States in 2004 after living there for
almost 40 years. In June, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld his deportation and
barred him from seeking legal residence. Guillermo Arias | The Associated
PressPHOTO - Fernandez'They still call me gringo'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Man is guilty in death of 19 immigrants

BYLINE: By Juan A. Lozano THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A truck driver was convicted Monday in the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who
had been crammed into a sweltering tractor-trailer.

The jury will return on Wednesday to begin hearing evidence on whether Tyrone
Williams, 35, should get the death penalty.

It was the second time Williams was found guilty in the case; an appeals court
said the earlier verdict was flawed and ordered a new trial.

The federal jury deliberated a little more than four days before convicting
Williams on all 58 counts of conspiracy, harboring and transporting for agreeing
to drive the illegal immigrants from south Texas to Houston in 2003.

More than 70 immigrants had been packed into the airtight trailer.

They clawed desperately at the insulation, broke out the taillights and screamed
for help as the temperature rose inside. Nineteen suffocated or died of heat or
dehydration.

Williams abandoned the trailer at a truck stop near Victoria, Texas, about 100
miles from Houston.

Defense attorney Craig Washington said his client was not responsible for the
deaths because he didn't know the immigrants were dying until it was too late.
Washington blamed another smuggling ring member for causing the deaths by
overcrowding the trailer.

Prosecutors said Williams was responsible for the deaths because he didn't free
the immigrants or turn on the air conditioning.

Williams showed no reaction when the verdict was read. He accepted a long hug
from his lawyer before being led away by U.S. marshals. "I am deeply
disappointed," said Washington.

Williams, a Jamaican citizen who lived in Schenectady, N.Y., is the only one of
14 people charged in the case to face the death penalty.

A jury convicted Williams last year, but he avoided a death sentence because the
jury couldn't agree on his role in the smuggling attempt.

An appeals court said the verdict did not count because the jury failed to
specify his role in the crime.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Man gets prison for trafficking in migrants Mexican national pleads guilty of
transporting illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By Nicholas J.C. Pistor ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C15

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: EAST ST. LOUIS


A Mexican national who pleaded guilty of driving a van packed with illegal
immigrants was sentenced on Thursday to federal prison.

Juan Arias-Ramirez was sentenced to 1 1/2 years in federal prison in U.S.
District Court for knowingly transporting 11 illegal immigrants from Mexico. He
was indicted in June on 11 counts following a traffic stop in Bond County.
Arias-Ramirez pleaded guilty to the charges in August.

Authorities said the van was headed to Indianapolis then to Chicago to drop off
passengers looking for seasonal work. Arias-Ramirez expected to be paid if the
trip, which began in Phoenix, had been successful.

Arias-Ramirez, who spoke through an interpreter, declined to address U.S.
District Judge David Herndon before his sentence was delivered.

After serving prison time, Arias-Ramirez, who had no previous criminal record in
the U.S., could be deported.

The van was packed with illegal immigrants not wearing safety belts. Police said
they were "sitting on the floorboards" and strewn across the seats.

Two of the immigrants were material witnesses for the prosecution.

The sentencing follows a similar one earlier this week in the East St. Louis
federal court. In an unrelated case, Gabriel Ortiz-Castenada was sentenced
Tuesday to 33 months in federal prison after he was caught in March hauling 19
illegal immigrants in a van outside Collinsville. In that case, the immigrants
were similarly packed into the car and also looking for seasonal work.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert L. Garrison said the illegal immigrants in both
case have been deported.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park reconsiders immigration Judge blocked enforcement of previous
measure.

BYLINE: By Joel Currier ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


The Board of Aldermen will vote tonight on new ordinances intended to combat
illegal immigrants. They will act four months after a judge barred them from
enforcing a similar ordinance passed last summer.

Aldermen will vote on two new bills designed to punish landlords and businesses
that hire and rent housing to illegal immigrants.

One of the bills would require landlords applying for occupancy permits to
provide tenants' names, ages, countries of citizenship and relationships with
other tenants.

It also would allow the city to grant or deny permits by using that information
to verify the citizenship status of potential tenants.

The other bill applies only to the employment of illegal immigrants, omitting
parts of an old ordinance that outlawed the practice of renting to them.
Businesses that hire illegal immigrants could be denied occupancy permits and
city contracts.

Last month, St. Louis County Circuit Judge Barbara Wallace set aside March 1 and
2 to hear testimony and arguments over the validity of an ordinance passed by
aldermen in July. That ordinance stirred controversy by declaring English the
official language of the city and by saying landlords could face a $500 fine for
renting to illegal immigrants.

Wallace has twice temporarily blocked Valley Park from enforcing the original
ordinance.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other organizations have challenged the
ordinance as unconstitutional, saying it was too vague, would promote racial
profiling and housing discrimination and harm businesses.

Linda Martinez, a lawyer who worked on a suit challenging the ordinance,
believes the city's attempt to pass new ordinances violates the spirit and
intent of the judge's injunction.

Eric Martin, Valley Park's attorney, said the new ordinances, if passed,
represented "a completely new procedural way of looking at the issue" by
requiring the city to verify the citizenship status of potential tenants, which
he says would alleviate landlords' risk and liability.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park again passes measures on immigration Ordinances target landlords or
businesses that rent to or hire illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By Joel Currier ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


Aldermen passed Monday night two more ordinances targeting illegal immigrants,
even though a judge has blocked enforcement of two previous attempts.

The new ordinances are designed to punish landlords and businesses that hire or
rent housing to illegal immigrants. One requires landlords applying for
occupancy permits to provide tenants' names, ages, countries of citizenship and
relationships with other tenants. The city would then seek to verify that
information before granting occupancy permits.

The other ordinance would deny business licenses and city contracts to
businesses that hire illegal immigrants.

The city has now enacted ordinances designed to combat illegal immigrants three
times. In July, aldermen passed an ordinance declaring English the official
language of the city, saying landlords could face a $500 fine for renting to
illegal immigrants and penalizing businesses that hired illegal immigrants.

In September, St. Louis County Circuit Judge Barbara Wallace blocked the city
from enforcing the measure. The city then passed a revised ordinance saying
landlords and businesses must determine if their tenants or employees are in the
country legally. The judge also blocked enforcement of that ordinance.

Wallace has set aside March 1 and 2 to hear testimony and arguments over those
ordinances. The two ordinances passed Monday night will not take effect until
after those hearings.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other organizations have challenged the
original ordinance as unconstitutional, saying it was too vague and would
promote racial profiling and housing discrimination and harm businesses.

At the meeting Monday, Florence Streeter, a landlord who is one of the
plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the city opposing the ordinances, said that
immigration was a federal issue and that the ordinances would promote racial
profiling by forcing landlords to decide whom to rent to based on race or ethnic
background.

"I am against a small group of people making laws that have statewide and
worldwide implications," she said. "These ordinances have just put a lot of
stress on the community."

Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker praised the board's decision, saying mounting
litigation costs of about $75,000 to fight the lawsuit have not deterred the
city's efforts to stop illegal immigrants.

"We're going to hold steadfast and hopefully solve this problem," Whitteaker
said. "We can't stop now."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

3 dead, some missing in attack on illegal immigrants

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, ARIZ.


Gunmen stopped a pickup full of illegal immigrants, shot some and took the rest
captive Thursday in an attack that left at least three people dead and two
wounded, authorities said.

Officials have not determined who the gunmen were but believe the driver, who
was probably a smuggler, escaped along with a guide. They are still at large. At
least two of the immigrants were Guatemalan, officials believe.

The men shot at least five people along a known smuggling corridor near Tucson
and forced several others in the group of nine or 10 immigrants to leave with
them, Pima County sheriff's officials said. The dead are thought to be two men
and a 15-year-old girl.

Another 15-year-old girl was later found with slight injuries, and another
person, apparently uninjured, was found in the afternoon, officials said. Two
men who were not injured were telling authorities what happened, officials said.

Investigators did not immediately know a motive for Thursday's attack, but gangs
of bandits are known to roam border areas preying on illegal immigrants as they
cross into the country.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Two bodies were found Thursday in this pickup near Tucson, Ariz.
Officials said the vehicle, carrying illegal immigrants, had been attacked
earlier by gunmen who killed one man and fled in the truck with hostages. A.E.
Araiza | Arizona Daily Star / Lee News Service

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Temporary Medicaid must remain intact for undocumented immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A47

LENGTH: 338 words


As a family practice physician who provides care for the poor, I serve as the
doctor to a large immigrant population. Among these patients are a significant
number of pregnant Mexican women who do not have legal status in this country.
These women are excellent mothers; it is a privilege to be their doctor. They
keep appointments, don't smoke or drink and breast feed their babies.

State Sens. Chris Koster, R-Harrisonville, and Tim Green, D-Spanish Lake,
recently introduced Senate Bill 348. This "Missouri omnibus immigration act,
with penalty provisions" states that "no alien unlawfully present in the United
States shall receive any state or local public benefit, except for state or
local benefits that are required to be offered by U.S. Code (U.S.C.1621(b))."

Missouri now offers temporary Medicaid benefits for undocumented immigrant women
who are pregnant. With temporary Medicaid, these immigrants get prenatal health
care, including their doctors' visits, laboratory tests, ultrasound evaluations
and other necessary prenatal testing.

In the United States, according to the 2005 statistics from the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, the infant mortality rate is 6.5 per 1,000
births. This places the United States 42nd among the 226 nations for which this
information is available. In Missouri, the infant mortality rate 7.5 per 1,000.
But for women in this country who receive no prenatal care, the infant mortality
rate is 38 per 1,000.

If Medicaid coverage is withdrawn, many immigrant women would have no access to
prenatal care. Their unborn children would be at risk. This would be a tragedy
because every baby is precious and deserves the best possible care, both before
and after birth.

Temporary Medicaid for undocumented pregnant immigrants meets the USC 1621(b)
criteria for exemptions that "are necessary for the protection of life or
safety" - namely, the life and safety of the unborn child. It is imperative that
our Legislature leave temporary Medicaid intact.

Dr. Abbe L. Sudvarg | Des Peres

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS FROM READERS YOUR VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegals' employers are target HOUSE OKS SANCTIONS o Screening out illegal
immigrants would berewarded. WORRIES OF RACISM o Applicants could face
discrimination.

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Companies caught employing illegal immigrants would forfeit their state tax
credits under a bill endorsed by the House on Wednesday.

The amendment's sponsor, Rep. Tony George, D-Florissant, said it would reward
employers who "play by the rules." The House attached the provision to a bill
expanding the "Quality Jobs" program. Another vote is needed to send the bill to
the Senate.

The employer sanction passed overwhelmingly, despite the objections of Rep. Tim
Flook, a Mexican-American.

Flook, R-Liberty, said the amendment oversimplified a complex problem and would
encourage racism. Rather than risk losing their tax incentives, employers might
reject job applicants based solely on their skin color, he said.

Though the House passed the amendment on a vote of 145-6, Flook said he would
keep working on an alternative.

He said employers who took steps to verify that workers were here legally - for
example, by using the federal database known as the Basic Pilot Program - should
not be held liable if the information was faulty.

The immigration issue could throw a wrench into the sweeping economic

development bill sought by business leaders.

The state has given out all the tax credits allowed under the Quality Jobs
program. Gov. Matt Blunt wants to double the $12 million cap to entice companies
that offer good-paying jobs with health insurance. The House bill would go
further, removing the cap on the subsidies entirely.

Wednesday's immigration debate didn't stop with the economic development bill.
Legislators considered a constitutional amendment that would make English the
language of all official proceedings in Missouri. But legislators delayed a vote
on that proposal.

The sponsor, Rep. Brian Nieves, R-Washington, said the measure was simple: It
would ensure that government proceedings were held in English. Proceedings could
still be translated, he said.

"If it's translated into 32 languages, that's fine," he said in an interview. He
said he wanted to prevent what happened in a town in Texas, where City Council
meetings are now held only in Spanish.

Nieves backed an amendment defining official proceedings as those subject to the
state's Open Meetings and Records law. But critics said that change would
trigger costly translations of foreign documents in court cases - Chinese
adoption certificates, for example.

The measure "does not fix any problem dealing with illegal immigration," said
Rep. Maria Chappelle-Nadal, D-University City. "This is a feel-good bill."

If approved by the Legislature, the amendment would be subject to a statewide
vote next year.

The economic development bill is HB327.

The English language measure is HJR7.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MISSOURI LEGISLATURE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Feds clean up janitorial service More than 200 illegal immigrants, including 4
locally, are detained.

BYLINE: By James Prichard The Associated Press Jerri Stroud of the Post-Dispatch
contributed to this report.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 446 words


An investigation of cleaning crews working at a northern Michigan resort has led
to federal fraud and tax charges being filed against three top officials at a
nationwide janitorial service and the arrest of more than 200 illegal
immigrants, including four at one St. Louis-area business, government officials
said.

The detainees - mostly Mexican nationals - who were rounded up early Thursday
were working as janitors for Rosenbaum-Cunningham International Inc., or RCI, a
Florida-based cleaning contractor.

Three men and a woman, all from Mexico, were detained at 2 a.m. Thursday at Dave
& Busters in Maryland Heights. A spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement declined to give their names. No one from Dave & Busters could be
reached for comment.

RCI co-owners Richard M. Rosenbaum, 60, of Longwood, Fla.; and Edward Scott
Cunningham, 43, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and firm controller Christina A.
Flocken, 59, also of Longwood, face criminal fraud, immigration and tax charges
in a 23-count indictment unsealed Thursday in U.S. District Court in Grand
Rapids.

"This is not a case of bad bookkeeping or skirting the rules," said Brian M.
Moskowitz, special agent in charge of the Detroit office of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. "It involved flagrant criminal behavior."

Moskowitz said during a news conference in Grand Rapids that federal agents
arrested Rosenbaum in Longwood earlier in the day. Cunningham and Flocken were
expected to soon turn themselves in to federal authorities in Grand Rapids,
where the case will be tried, he said.

Their practice of paying cash wages to their workers deprived the U.S.
government of about $18.6 million in employment taxes, according to the
indictment.

About 203 illegal immigrants who worked for RCI were arrested and expected to be
deported, Moskowitz said. Agents took them into custody at 63 business locations
in 17 states and the District of Columbia.

An outgoing telephone message from RCI's headquarters in Palm Beach, Fla., said
the company had "ceased operations" effective Thursday.

The joint ICE-IRS investigation began 20 months ago at the Grand Traverse Resort
in Acme in Michigan's northwestern Lower Peninsula.

Not only did RCI fail to pay employment taxes on its nationwide operations - its
clients included such venues as Planet Hollywood, Hard Rock Cafe and ESPN Zone -
but its top officials also had its supervisors procure and maintain a work force
of illegal immigrants and authorized managers to provide them with fake resident
cards, or green cards, according to the indictment.

The three company officials facing charges also set up shell companies to hide
excess assets, the indictment says.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              March 2, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Credit cards available to illegal immigrants stir hot debate

BYLINE: By Ieva M. Augstums The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 622 words


CHARLOTTE, N.C. - When news broke that Bank of America Corp. was testing a new
credit card available to customers who may be illegal immigrants, the reaction
was predictably harsh.

Outspoken critics of illegal immigration called for a boycott and said the bank
could be supporting terrorists and drug traffickers. Some outraged customers
closed accounts and sent back their cards, chopped into little pieces. The
bank's chief executive, Ken Lewis, admitted that "finding oneself in the middle
of a heated national debate is never pleasant."

But Bank of America isn't the first to offer such a card: Citigroup Inc. said it
has done so for years, and Wells Fargo & Co. says it's thinking about it. The
cards are merely the latest progression for an industry that has spent millions
to attract customers in the country's growing Latino community - and among the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

They also reflect a fact faced by every retail business in the United States.
While they can't legally employ undocumented workers, there are few, if any,
restrictions on welcoming them as customers.

"As a business owner, you sell to whomever comes into your store. You sell to
whomever buys from you online. It's easy, normally," said Steven Camarota,
director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington. "Just
in some cases where specific identification is needed, like in financial
services, it's more complicated."

But getting less so. Last month, Bank of America said it had started a pilot
program in the Los Angeles area late last year that didn't require a Social
Security number to sign up for a credit card. The Charlotte-based bank insists
that the card is not specifically designed to attract illegal immigrants and
that so far it has not.

The bank hasn't decided whether it will offer the card elsewhere, but it
probably would be popular with a population that generally lacks access to
something as common in most American wallets as the dollar bill and a drivers
license.

"It's a no-brainer. It's a very large market," said Jim Johnson, director of the
Urban Investment Strategies Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

In 2005, the nation's 6.6 million illegal immigrant families had an average
annual income of $29,500 and accounted for nearly $200 billion in purchasing
power, a figure that's only expected to grow, said Pew Hispanic Center
demographer Jeff Passel.

"They are impacting the economy," Passel said. "The unauthorized are explicitly
coming for an economic basis."

For years, U.S. banks have made attracting immigrants a major focus of their
business strategy, working to sell services that include everything from
traditional checking accounts to wire transfers used to send money to relatives
back home.

Customers typically don't need a Social Security number to open a standard
banking account. Instead, they can identify themselves by using an ID card
provided by the Mexican Consulate to its citizens, known as a matricula
consular, or an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number issued by the Internal
Revenue Service.

At Bank of America, the pilot program in Los Angeles allows customers to use
such forms of identification to also sign up for a credit card. The card is
similar to secured cards offered to those with poor credit: It requires
customers to have an account with the bank that's been in good standing for at
least three months and comes with a reimbursable upfront fee of $99.

"This initiative lets customers build a solid credit history with a leading
bank," Bank of America spokeswoman Betsy Weinberger said.

Still, Camarota said, most Americans don't think businesses should go out of
their way to cater to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Trial begins on anti-immigration ordinances

BYLINE: By Michael Vitez Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa.


The first ordinances passed by a local government to crack down on illegal
immigrants, enacted in July in the old coal city of Hazleton, Pa., went on trial
in federal court Monday, with 20 lawyers seated at counsel tables.

The central question in the case is whether municipal lawmakers can regulate
immigration, or whether immigration policy is the exclusive province of the U.S.
government.

"I realize we're not fighting for Hazleton anymore. We're fighting for the whole
country," said Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta. He introduced the Illegal
Immigration Relief Act in the city council after a local man was shot in the
forehead by two illegal immigrants from the Dominican Republic last May.

The Hazleton ordinances, yet to be enacted pending the outcome of the trial,
would fine landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and withhold permits from
companies that hire them.

It also mandates English as the official language of the town, where the
population swelled 30 percent, to 32,000, in five years due to an influx of
Latinos from New York and New Jersey looking for a peaceful community, jobs and
affordable housing.

Since introducing the laws, Barletta, 50, said he had received more than 20,000
positive e-mails and raised a $100,000 legal fund from contributions sent by
people all over the country.

"An 88-year-old man in a nursing home, saving his quarters, told his
granddaughter where they were hidden and said, 'Send them to Lou Barletta,'" the
mayor said.

On the other side, Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil
Liberties Union, said: "I hope to stop the whole anti-immigrant movement dead in
its tracks." The ACLU filed the suit and represents the plaintiffs, Latino
residents of Hazleton and immigrant-advocacy groups.

"We know this is the first local ordinance, the first trial," added Witold
Walczak, legal director of the ACLU of Pennsylvania, who made the plaintiffs'
opening statement Monday.

"We know that a lot of these small towns across America are saying, 'We'd like
to do something, but let's see what happens in Hazleton,'" Walczak said.

The trial is expected to last two weeks.

Baretta's supporters describe Hazleton's ordinances as the desperate act of a
town attempting to preserve its way of life, but saddled by a Congress that has
failed to pass comprehensive immigration reform. There are an estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in America, about 5 percent of the nation's
workforce.

Barletta and the Hazleton defense team say the ordinances target no ethnic or
racial groups. The mayor claimed legal immigrants were welcome in his community
and had contributed to its rebirth. Illegal immigrants, he said, are responsible
for rising crime, overcrowded schools, and budget strains caused by the need for
increased services.

The ACLU has said there is no evidence to support Barletta's claims.

---

STLtoday.com/current Do you agree with the goals of the Pennsylvania town's law?
Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park loses in court

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: Valley Park


WHAT ORDINANCE SAID o Landlords could be fined for renting to illegal
immigrants, and businesses could lose their licenses for five years for hiring
them.

WHAT THIS MEANS o The case involved an ordinance that has been changed, so
impact of ruling by Judge Barbara Wallace is uncertain.

---

The city's ordinances targeting illegal immigrants - first passed last summer -
clash with state law and cannot be enforced, a judge ruled Monday.

But that doesn't mean the issue is dead in Valley Park.

In September, nearly 20 attorneys sued the city, arguing that the ordinances
would lead to racial profiling, promote housing discrimination and hurt
businesses.

Valley Park leaders responded by repealing the original ordinances and enacting
a series of new ones, hoping they would pass legal muster.

It is unclear how St. Louis County Circuit Judge Barbara Wallace's ruling will
affect the city's ability to enforce its new ordinances. Her ruling was based on
the city's original attempts.

"I don't know that we've made that determination yet," said City Attorney Eric
Martin.

But Karen Tokarz, a law professor at Washington University who worked on the
case, said the attorneys from the ACLU, St. Louis University and other
organizations would soon file another suit against Valley Park to try to have
the new ordinances declared void.

"As long as they keep enacting ordinances, we'll be back in court to challenge
them," she said.

In July, the city passed an ordinance that said landlords could be fined $500 or
more for renting to illegal immigrants, and business could lose their licenses
for five years for hiring them.

Shortly after, several Hispanic families left the city, with many seeking
relocation help from the Roman Catholic archdiocese of St. Louis.

Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker said at the time that although he didn't think Valley
Park had a problem with illegal immigrants, the ordinance was "preventative
maintenance." The measure said illegal immigration increased crime, overcrowded
schools and destroyed neighborhoods.

Whitteaker said he got the idea while listening to a radio program about
Hazleton, Penn., another city that passed an anti-illegal-immigration ordinance.

On Monday, Wallace ruled that the ordinances conflicted with state
landlord-tenant laws - which spell out precise rules for how tenants can be
evicted - and that a city of Valley Park's size cannot levy such damaging
penalties against businesses.

The Board of Aldermen has tinkered with the ordinances. Instead of fining
landlords, the new version says landlords can lose their occupancy permits if
they are found renting to illegals.

Another change: businesses caught employing illegals can lose their licenses for
up to 20 days, instead of five years.

Dozens of cities across the country have considered legislation aimed at illegal
immigrants.

Linda Martinez, an attorney with the Bryan Cave firm who worked on the case,
called Wallace's ruling "a precedent."

"She said a city of this class should not be doing this in Missouri," Martinez
said. "I think it has a wide scope of impact in Missouri."

The lawsuit was brought on behalf of three Valley Park landlords and the
Metropolitan St. Louis Housing Opportunity Council Inc., a federally funded
agency that combats housing discrimination.

---

STLtoday.com/current Do you agree with the court's ruling? Talk about it in
Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Board and mayor differ on course Aldermen vote to drop one measure; Whitteaker
says tough stance is right thing to do

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


Aldermen voted Monday night to abandon Valley Park's efforts to enforce an
ordinance targeting illegal immigrants amid concerns over a costly legal battle,
but the mayor may not go along.

Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker said he didn't know if he would sign the ordinance
amended by the aldermen, which prevents landlords from getting occupancy permits
for renters who are in the country illegally. He said he believed the board was
bowing to financial concerns.

"I think it's a matter of dollars and cents," he said.

He said he stands by the ordinance as the right thing to do.

"I just want people to know that as a mayor, I do not promote the presence of
illegal aliens in Valley Park," he said, adding later: "The word 'illegal' is
really clear. They shouldn't be here."

Roughly 70 people showed up Monday night at City Hall to debate Valley Park's
anti-illegal immigration ordinances.

At least nine residents criticized Whitteaker and the ordinances, saying they
were too costly to defend from lawsuits and damaging to the city's image.

"I don't want to see our city bankrupt," Valley Park resident Leo Anglo said.

But other people from across St. Louis County and beyond spoke in favor of the
city's anti-illegal immigration efforts.

Nick Ivanovich, a member of the Constitution Party who lives in Kirkwood, urged
the city to continue on its current path.

"They deliberately choose to violate our laws," Ivanovich said. "They carry
false documents as proof. They come to our table intending to steal the food."

Valley Park passed an ordinance in July that fined businesses and landlords for
hiring and renting to illegal immigrants. The city joined a small club of other
cities across the nation that have passed similar measures, but it incurred a
lengthy court battle.

A St. Louis County Circuit Court judge ruled last week that the city's first
attempt at enacting an illegal immigration ordinance clashed with state law and
could not be enforced. It was unclear how the ruling would affect ordinances the
city passed this year dealing with illegal immigration.

At least one alderman said he doubted whether the city should continue trying to
enforce the series of anti-illegal immigration ordinances.

"I just can't see how we can win this," Alderman Dan Adams said.

Adams said he worries the city's efforts to enact the laws will damage its
image.

"There has been a racial overtone cast upon this issue," Adams said. "I do not
want to be seen as a racist."

---

STLtoday.com/current What should Valley Park do about its ordinance aganst
illegal immigrants? Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  VALLEY PARK IMMIGRATION ordinances

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park mayor weighs veto of immigration bill THE BILL o Would end crackdown
on businesses, landlords. THE MAYOR o Says city's legal fees have reached
$56,000.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker has about a week to decide whether to sign a bill that
would end the city's crackdown on illegal immigrants.

The city's Board of Aldermen voted 7-1 Monday night to do that, but Whitteaker
said afterward he was not sure that was the right move.

"The next question is, am I going to sign this ordinance," Whitteaker said. "I
don't know."

Whitteaker did not return messages left Tuesday on his cell and home phones.

In July, Whitteaker thrust the city of 6,500 into the national spotlight by
championing an ordinance that fined businesses and landlords that hire or rent
to illegal aliens. The same board voted unanimously for the ordinance.

Roughly 70 people showed up at Monday's meeting for a debate on the law. Many
had come from cities throughout the St. Louis area, and they urged the board to
continue on its current path, saying their city leaders were watching Valley
Park closely and weighing whether to enact similar ordinances.

"You seem to be the only city that has backbone to pass an ordinance like this,"
said Mary Dust of Ellisville.

But some Valley Park residents either called for the mayor's resignation or said
the city should stop targeting illegal immigrants.

"I have yet to hear anyone who lives here speak in favor of it," said Michael
Clark of Valley Park.

Clark urged the mayor to contribute his own money to the cause, suggesting that
Whitteaker sell his own car to help pay for the costs of a suit over the law.

"How about you sell your Corvette?" he asked.

Whitteaker said the city's legal fees in the case have reached $56,000.

In September, a coalition of about 20 attorneys sued the city, arguing the law
promoted racial profiling, hurt businesses and caused housing discrimination.

Last week, a St. Louis County Circuit Court judge ruled the city's original
attempts at the ordinance contradicted state law.

But the ruling did not apply to a revised housing ordinance the city enacted
earlier this year. The ordinance would prevent landlords from getting occupancy
permits if they rent to illegal aliens.

The ACLU of Eastern Missouri filed another suit over that law a few days after
the judge's ruling.

The Board of Aldermen voted Monday night to delete parts of its housing code
dealing with illegal aliens.

If Whitteaker doesn't act on the bill, he would be vetoing the board's vote,
said City Attorney Eric Martin. The board could then override him with a
two-thirds majority vote.

Linda Martinez, an attorney with the Bryan Cave firm who worked on the first
suit, told the board that the deletions alleviated her concerns.

But after the meeting, she said whether or not she and others file another suit
hinges on Whitteaker.

"If he doesn't sign it, all bets are off," she said.

Anthony Rothert, an attorney with the ACLU of Eastern Missouri, said he would
withdraw his suit if the mayor honors the board's vote.

"It seems like their intent is to get out of the immigration enforcement
business," he said. "I guess the citizens spoke and they heard them."

Whitteaker said he believed the board had simply bowed to financial pressures.

"I think it's a matter of dollars and cents," he said. "I don't think it's
because the board believes it's the right thing to do."

---

STLtoday.com/current What should Valley Park do about its anti-illegal
immigration ordinance? Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illinois House votes to let illegal immigrants drive legally

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ill.


The Illinois House voted Wednesday to give illegal immigrants a way to drive
legally on the state's roads, a move supporters say will be controversial but
should improve highway safety.

The state would offer driving "certificates" to people who lack the valid Social
Security number needed to obtain a regular license. The certificates would allow
them to drive and buy auto insurance but could not be used as identification.

To get the certificates, people would have to provide a photo ID, such as a
passport from their native country, and submit fingerprints. They also would
have to prove they have obtained insurance within a month or the certificate
would be canceled.

The measure passed 60-56 and now goes to the Senate.

Supporters say many immigrants, illegal or not, already are driving in Illinois
but without proper training and insurance. If they get into traffic accidents,
many of those drivers flee and leave the other driver stuck with any repair
costs or hospital bills, the bill's supporters say.

The certificate program would reduce that problem and provide information to
police about who they're dealing with during traffic stops, supporters argue.

"You don't see a single police association opposed to this measure," said Rep.
Paul Froehlich, a Schaumburg Republican who is co-sponsoring the bill.

Opponents, however, argue it's wrong to make special accommodations for people
who are in the country illegally.

"Let's just knock down the borders. Let's give everybody a certificate saying,
'Thanks for being here. You're a great American,'" said Rep. Ron Stephens,
R-Greenville.

Tennessee created a similar program in 2004 but suspended it after about 18
months. People were coming from other states to obtain the certificates through
fraud, but supporters say the Illinois measure contains safeguards to prevent
that.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park needs to shut down its war on immigrants

BYLINE: By Rigel Oliveri

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 898 words


Three weeks ago, a St. Louis County circuit judge struck down an ordinance
passed last summer by the City of Valley Park that aimed to punish landlords and
employers for renting to or hiring illegal immigrants, but the legal situtation
remains unsettled.

The city actually has passed a dizzying array of successive ordinances addresing
the subject, the most recent of which - passed one week ago - reversed course
and deleted references to citizenship and immigration with respect to the
landlord-tenant relationship. But Mayor Jeffrey Whitteaker has said he will not
sign the latest ordinance. That would leave the previous one in effect unless
the board, which is scheduled to meet tonight, overrides what amounts to a veto.

The stakes in this debate are high, and the nation is watching. Similarly
restrictive legislation is pending in the Missouri Legislature and in other
municipalities across the country.

If the Valley Park Board of Aldermen fails to override the mayor, the newer
ordinances should be struck down as the original one was. In addition to the
serious problems raised by a municipal government attempting to enforce federal
law, the ordinance would encourage landlords to discriminate against people
based on their national origin. There also is ample evidence that the ordinance
is the result of prejudice against Hispanics, rather than a genuine desire to
combat illegal immigration.

The ordinance would require landlords to provide information about the
"citizenship" of every potential tenant to the city's building commissioner. It
does not specify how the landlord is supposed to obtain or verify this
information. If any proposed tenant is an "alien unlawfully present in the
United States," an occupancy permit would be denied. Presumably, if it is later
revealed that such an alien is living in the unit, the occupancy permit would be
revoked.

One problem is clear immediately: "Citizenship" is not the same thing as "legal
status." A person can be a citizen of another country and still reside legally
in the United States. In other words, by focusing on citizenship, this ordinance
would put non-citizen legal residents under a cloud of suspicion. Moreover, it
would be much easier for the landlord to accept the word of a person who seems
to be "from here" with respect to her citizenship than that of a person whose
ethnic appearance, accent or surname suggests that she might be from another
country.

Faced with such an ordinace, most rational landlords simply would refuse to
accept applications from people who seem foreign. This would violate state and
federal fair housing laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of national
origin.

Alternatively, a landlord might attempt to verify the legal status of applicants
before accepting the application. This would pose additional problems. First,
most people aren't familiar with the various immigration documents that give
non-U.S. citizens the legal status to live in this country. An average
small-town landlord is not in a position to evaluate such documents or judge
their authenticity.

Second, in order to remain on the right side of the anti-discrimination laws,
landlords are obliged to treat all applicants equally. That means he would have
to request proof of legal status from all prospective tenants, not just those
who appear foreign. Likewise, if the landlord's policy is to reject any
applicant who cannot produce the necessary documents, he must reject all such
applicants, including those who seem obviously native-born. Once again, a
rational landlord in this situation is likely to treat national origin
minorities differently and, thus, violate the law of the land.

In such situations - in which a law has a disproportionate impact on minorities
- courts typically consider whether bias against those minorities was a
motivating factor in the law's passage. For that determination, we need look no
further than the statements of Valley Park officials.

In a recent interview with the Riverfront Times, Mayor Whitteaker referred to
Hispanics as "Cousin Puerto Rico and Taco Whoever," "beaners," and "wetbacks."
He described being bothered by seeing Hispanics on the street and said that the
idea to fight illegal immigration in Valley Park came to him when a Mexican
family (who were in this country legally) moved next door to his sister.

And these statements are tame in comparison to some of the racist and xenophobic
sentiments originally expressed by other supporters of the ordinance.

Frustration with the federal government's inability to police our borders is
understandable. But the Valley Park ordinances seem to have been motivated less
by the "problem" of illegal immigration - of which there is little evidence in
Valley Park - than by bias against Hispanics, whether here legally or not.

Conscripting landlords into service enforcing federal immigration law would
place an unfair burden on them, particularly when doing so would encourage them
to violate the nation's fair housing laws. Those who would suffer the most harm,
however, are ethnic minorities who are citizens or are otherwise in this country
legally.

---

Rigel Oliveri is a law professor who teaches fair housing law at the University
of Missouri-Columbia. From 2000 to 2005, she was a trial attorney specializing
in housing discrimination in the civil rights division of the U.S. Department of
Justice in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - Rigel Oliveri  GRAPHIC - (A door with many locks.) Barrie Maguire |
Newsart

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Community will keep up campaign against illegals VETO OVERRIDE FAILS Two
aldermen change votes, dooming effort to save less strict ordinance.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 552 words


VALLEY PARK - Valley Park will continue to enforce an ordinance targeting
illegal immigrants despite a costly legal battle and a recent decision by
aldermen to do just the opposite.

Two weeks ago, aldermen voted 7-1 to delete parts of the housing code that would
deny occupancy permits to landlords renting to illegal aliens. On Friday, Mayor
Jeffery Whitteaker vetoed the board's decision.

The board needed six votes to override Whitteaker's veto Monday night, but only
five of its eight members voted to do so. Aldermen Steve Drake and Mike White
reversed themselves. They said last week that their earlier votes to stop
combating illegal immigrants were premature.

Whitteaker said he had vetoed the changes because, "to repeal what we have
worked so hard to create would be a much larger waste of money than to see this
issue forward."

Whitteaker also said other communities were counting on Valley Park for guidance
in how to deal with illegal immigration. At Monday's meeting, Whitteaker noted
how a student from O'Fallon, Mo., was killed on spring break in Florida when he
was hit by a car driven by a suspected illegal immigrant.

"If I and this board prevent one person from being killed, then I don't care
what it costs," he said.

About 50 people showed up at Monday night's meeting to debate the issue. Frank
Rice of Union handed the board a $500 check to help pay for the city's legal
costs.

"Our federal government now stands impotent to enforce its laws," Rice said. He
urged the board to continue efforts to battle illegal immigration.

"May God bless this great nation and this fine city," he said.

Kim Gardner, a real estate developer and Sunset Hills attorney, said he knew of
several attorneys who agreed with Valley Park's stance and said he wanted to
offer his legal services to the city for free.

Several Valley Park residents said they were worried about the cost of fighting
a lawsuit.

"All we are doing is dividing our city, and we are sending a lot of attorneys to
Disneyland on the city's dime," said resident Mary Fehner.

In July, Whitteaker made national news by championing an ordinance imposing
fines of $500 on businesses and landlords that hire or rent to illegal aliens.
The board voted unanimously for that ordinance.

A coalition of about 20 attorneys sued the city, arguing that the law promoted
racial profiling, hurt businesses and caused housing discrimination. Last month,
a St. Louis County Circuit Court judge ruled that the city's original attempts
at the ordinance contradicted state law.

The judge's ruling did not apply to a revised housing ordinance the city enacted
earlier this year. The ordinance would prevent landlords from getting occupancy
permits if they rent to illegal aliens.

The ACLU of Eastern Missouri filed another suit over that law a few days after
the judge's ruling. That ordinance is the one the Board of Aldermen tried to
alter.

The city's legal fees in the case have run about $80,000 so far. Valley Park has
received roughly $8,000 in donations from people like Rice to offset the costs.

After Monday's meeting, Philip Soto, a resident, stood outside City Hall shaking
his head.

"People have lost common sense," Soto said. "They've lost the ability to step
back from the precipice. ... I'm sorry, but you cannot convince me that there
isn't some racial overtone."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  VALLEY PARK

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - At a meeting Monday of the Valley Park Board of Aldermen,
William Reynolds speaks against an ordinance denying occupancy permits for
rentals to illegal aliens. Odell Mitchell Jr. | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park will stay the course The mayor o He says changing course on the
illegal immigration ordinance would be costly. The aldermen o Board fails to
override mayor's veto when two members change their stance.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


Valley Park will continue to enforce an ordinance targeting illegal immigrants
despite a costly legal battle and a recent decision by aldermen to do just the
opposite.

Two weeks ago, aldermen voted 7-1 to delete parts of the housing code that would
deny occupancy permits to landlords renting to illegal aliens. On Friday, Mayor
Jeffery Whitteaker vetoed the board's decision.

The board needed six votes to override Whitteaker's veto Monday night, but only
five of its eight members voted to do so. Aldermen Steve Drake and Mike White
reversed themselves. They said last week that their earlier votes to stop
combating illegal immigrants were premature.

Whitteaker said he had vetoed the changes because, "to repeal what we have
worked so hard to create would be a much larger waste of money than to see this
issue forward."

Whitteaker also said other communities were counting on Valley Park for guidance
in how to deal with illegal immigration. At Monday's meeting, Whitteaker noted
how a student from O'Fallon, Mo., was killed on spring break in Florida when he
was hit by a car driven by a suspected illegal immigrant.

"If I and this board prevent one person from being killed, then I don't care
what it costs," he said.

About 50 people showed up at Monday night's meeting to debate the issue. Frank
Rice of Union handed the board a $500 check to help pay for the city's legal
costs.

"Our federal government now stands impotent to enforce its laws," Rice said. He
urged the board to continue efforts to battle illegal immigration.

"May God bless this great nation and this fine city," he said.

Kim Gardner, a real estate developer and Sunset Hills attorney, said he knew of
several attorneys who agreed with Valley Park's stance and said he wanted to
offer his legal services to the city for free.

Several Valley Park residents said they were worried about the cost of fighting
a lawsuit.

"All we are doing is dividing our city, and we are sending a lot of attorneys to
Disneyland on the city's dime," said resident Mary Fehner.

In July, Whitteaker made national news by championing an ordinance imposing
fines of $500 on businesses and landlords that hire or rent to illegal aliens.
The board voted unanimously for that ordinance.

A coalition of about 20 attorneys sued the city, arguing that the law promoted
racial profiling, hurt businesses and caused housing discrimination. Last month,
a St. Louis County Circuit Court judge ruled that the city's original attempts
at the ordinance contradicted state law.

The judge's ruling did not apply to a revised housing ordinance the city enacted
earlier this year. The ordinance would prevent landlords from getting occupancy
permits if they rent to illegal aliens.

The ACLU of Eastern Missouri filed another suit over that law a few days after
the judge's ruling. That ordinance is the one the Board of Aldermen tried to
alter.

The city's legal fees in the case have run about $80,000 so far. Valley Park has
received roughly $8,000 in donations from people like Rice to offset the costs.

After Monday's meeting, Philip Soto, a resident, stood outside City Hall shaking
his head.

"People have lost common sense," Soto said. "They've lost the ability to step
back from the precipice. ... I'm sorry, but you cannot convince me that there
isn't some racial overtone."

---

STLtoday.com/current What do you think of the Valley Park effort? Talk about it
in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - At a meeting Monday of the Valley Park Board of Aldermen, William
Reynolds speaks against an ordinance denying occupancy permits for rentals to
illegal aliens. Odell Mitchell Jr. | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Cleaning company executives arrested, accused of hiring illegal immigrants

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ill.


Executives at a Beardstown, Ill., cleaning company were arrested Wednesday on
federal charges that they hired illegal immigrants and helped them steal the
identities of U.S. citizens.

Federal immigration agents arrested Gerardo Dominguez, the plant manager for
Quality Service Integrity Inc., and Maria del Pilar Marroquin de Ramirez, the
company's personnel administrator. The charges against the two Beardstown
residents include aggravated identity theft.

Quality Service Integrity is a contractor that cleans a Cargill meat-processing
plant in Beardstown, a town of about 6,000 in Cass County, about 115 miles north
of St. Louis.

Authorities also charged 25 other Quality Service Integrity employees with
identity theft, and have arrested 11 of them. The 13 employees who were arrested
were scheduled to appear in federal court today. Another 49 workers were taken
into custody as illegal aliens.

Officials claim Dominguez had access to several assumed identities, which he
provided to new employees.

Authorities say one informant, who wore a recorder, told plant officials his
documents were fake. Dominguez and others allegedly told him and other
informants to get better documents, saying good counterfeits were available in
Chicago and providing them information for false identities.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Licensing illegals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 285 words


There are 8.5 million drivers on Illinois roads. If one of them should bump into
you, it would be nice to know that the driver has insurance and a license that
carries the driver's real name and address.

To further that end, the Illinois House last week approved a bill that would let
illegal aliens acquire drivers "certificates." They would not be real licenses;
a person with such a certificate would not be able to board a plane or buy a gun
with one. But it would allow the holder to drive legally in Illinois and buy
automobile insurance.

The idea is a pragmatic one. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates there are 250,000
illegal immigrants in Illinois. Many now are driving without licenses. Everyone
on the road will be safer if immigrants learn the rules of the road, pass a
drivers test and carry insurance.

Right now, illegal immigrants can't legally get an Illinois license because they
can't get a Social Security number. Without a license, most insurance companies
won't issue a car insurance policy. After all, how could they check a driver's
safety record? The licensing requirements will get tougher as the federal Real
ID law phases in next year.

As a result, thousands of untested drivers will be on the road without
insurance, many carrying phony licenses. That's in no one's interest,
particularly the people sharing the same roads with illegitimate drivers. To get
a drivers certificate, an immigrant would have to have insurance.

Illinois House Bill 1100 now goes to the Senate. If it passes, all Illinoisans
will be a bit safer on the roads. The debate over how to treat illegal
immigrants in the United States continues. But there's no debate over whether
drivers should be licensed and insured.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  ILLINOIS OPINION

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (THUMBS UP)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 6, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Court again blocks Valley Park law

BYLINE: By William C. Lhotka ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 205 words


A judge has once again barred Valley Park from enforcing an ordinance aimed at
deterring illegal immigration.

St. Louis County Presiding Judge Carolyn C. Whittington issued a temporary order
about 1:15 p.m. Thursday, preventing the city from denying occupancy permits to
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants.

She said the prohibition would be in force for 15 days, pending a hearing April
20 before St. Louis County Associate Circuit Judge Barbara Ann Crancer.

Twice before, Judge Barbara Wallace ruled that similar ordinances violate
Missouri's landlord-tenant laws. The suit on which Whittington ruled was filed
by a coalition of 10 attorneys on behalf of three landlords and the Metropolitan
St. Louis Equal Housing Opportunity Commission.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit against Valley Park's
latest effort targeting illegal immigrants. That suit is pending before a
different judge.

In March, Valley Park aldermen voted 7-1 to delete parts of the housing code in
controversy. But Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker vetoed the decision, and the
aldermanic majority mustered only five of the six votes needed to override.

Whitteaker has said he wants his community to be a leader in dealing with
illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal is illegal; we must get tough on immigration

BYLINE: By Terry Sater

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 629 words


Illegal immigration is my deal breaker issue for the 2008 elections. If a
candidate doesn't have the courage to speak clearly and decisively on stopping
illegal immigration, I won't consider him fit for political office.

Illegal immigration is a spider-web issue that connects to and exacerbates many
other problems. If we don't stop it, how can we possibly address the challenges
of homeland security, taxes, education and health care? I don't want a candidate
that is soft, fuzzy or ambiguous about this, and I don't want a so-called
comprehensive plan that gives amnesty to 10 million people who broke our laws
and invites another 20 million to join them.

Actually, the problem isn't really immigration; it is a surreptitious invasion
aided by our government's unconscionable negligence or, worse, criminal
duplicity.

It is not easy to be a proponent of secure borders, national sovereignty and
well-defined immigration laws. It makes you look mean and compassion-less in the
face of stories we are force-fed about hard working families with children split
up by an uncaring U.S. government.

Some insist on a "touchy-feely" approach. When speaking of illegal aliens, you
can't just say they broke the law, as you would if you were speaking of
burglars, crooked corporate executives or an offending border patrol agent. No,
you have to start with the qualification that illegal aliens are "good people."

I saw one media report in which a Florida lawyer advocated a bill that would
outlaw the very term "illegal alien." With a straight face, oblivious to the
irony, she said that calling people illegal aliens "treated them like
second-class citizens."

In a recent letter to the editor, a Post-Dispatch reader expressed admiration
for Martha Rodriguez, who is running for Valley Park alderman on a platform of
"fighting for the rights of Mexican-Americans - legal and illegal. . . . She has
set an example for the rest of us to stand up and voice our complaints and
exercise our rights as lawful citizens or residents."

I wonder: Are Mexican citizens who are in the United States illegally really
Mexican-Americans? And what are the rights of illegal aliens and unlawful
residents?

Many of those who advocate open borders don't concern themselves with the costs
to our society of illegal aliens. They seem to think that if we let in another
30 million people, we can just raise taxes.

I do believe that we are "our brother's keeper." I just don't think we can keep
everybody's brother. Our economy is strong, but open borders will pull that down
as surely as an overloaded life boat. We need to start bailing.

I support repealing the law that grants citizenship to anyone born in the United
States, even if the parent is here illegally. Any illegal alien discovered
during a routine traffic stop or in possession of forged documents or who
commits even a minor crime should be deported. Likewise those illegal aliens who
commit serious crimes - following their respective prison terms.

It should be unprofitable for companies to hire illegal aliens; only meaningful
sanctions - perhaps fines to the point of bankruptcy - will be effective. And
the borders should be reinforced with fences or an electronic monitoring network
and a beefed up Border Patrol.

Finally, the United States should offer reasonable economic assistance to Mexico
in order to help build its economy and create decent jobs .

I am not against immigration. I am not xenophobic. But America has the right and
the responsibility to control entry into our country. The rule of law is not a
buffet; you can't pick and choose which laws to obey and which to ignore. Either
law rules or anarchy prevails.

---

Terry Sater of Eureka is a branch manager for City Electric Supply and a regular
contributor to the Commentary page.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POINT OF VIEW OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Terry Sater

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Wary, ready for arrests

BYLINE: By Roxana Hegeman THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: DODGE CITY, Kan.


Frightened by raids last year at six Swift & Co. plants, illegal immigrants in
the nation's meatpacking towns are preparing for their possible arrest.

For years, immigrant rights groups had been confident the meatpacking giants
were so powerful that immigration agents would never raid them.

But since the Dec. 12 sweeps at Swift plants in six states, immigrant advocacy
groups have been holding workshops, teaching undocumented workers how to prepare
for their arrests. The workers are learning such things as how to draw up legal
documents so someone could care for their children and handle their financial
affairs.

In addition, the United Food and Commercial Workers union has printed a
bilingual immigration rights kit it plans to distribute nationwide to workers in
the coming weeks. The kit includes practical information, legal documents and
sample letters.

"We want to make sure they (immigration officials) don't take advantage of our
people," said Martin Rosas, secretary-treasurer for UFCW in Dodge City.

Among those making preparations since attending a workshop is the family of a
43-year-old man who works under a false identity at the National Beef plant in
Liberal. Two of his four children, ranging in ages from 4 to 18, were born in
the United States, where he's lived on and off for 21 years.

His wife, a 39-year-old illegal immigrant, asked not to be identified for fear
the family would be arrested. The family is writing documents so her brother, a
legal resident, would have custody of the children if the parents are deported.

"It is the expected response of people that are terrified, that have to keep
working in order to live," said James Austin, a Kansas City immigration attorney
who has taught at such workshops in Kansas.

Ed Hayes, Kansas director of the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps, an anti-illegal
immigration group, said he was dismayed by those who are helping illegal
immigrants.

"Those people ought to be arrested because they are helping people break the
law," Hayes said.

Immigration informational meetings are not new, Austin said, but only recently
have organizers begun distributing and discussing power of attorney documents at
them. He said that's a direct response by Hispanic advocacy agencies to recent
Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids, including last year's arrests of
1,282 Swift workers at plants in Colorado, Nebraska, Texas, Utah, Iowa and
Minnesota.

Immigrant families are also being urged to set up savings accounts with $3,000
to $10,000 per family to pay bail bonds and other costs.

Rosas said UFCW's bilingual kit will explain workers' rights and offer practical
advice for dealing with immigration problems. Among the documents in the kit are
sample letters immigrants can use to better respond to the federal government's
inquiries about problems with Social Security numbers.

Don Stull, a University of Kansas anthropology professor and industry expert,
said it's estimated that about 25 percent of people working at the nation's
meatpacking plants are in the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Illegal immigrants

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Praise from afar, criticism from within

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1253 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker looked over the divided audience - a mix of people who
either loathed or admired him. For the critics glaring back at him, he held up a
newspaper story about an O'Fallon, Mo., college student killed by an illegal
immigrant suspected of drunk driving.

"If I and this board prevent one person from being killed," he declared last
month, "then I don't care what it costs."

Two weeks later, resident William Reynolds approached the podium at City Hall
with his own newspaper. It was an article from 2003, chronicling Whitteaker's
arrest for drunk driving and refusal to take a Breathalyzer test.

"I would suggest that you don't throw stones in glass houses," Reynolds said.

Nine months after the mayor first championed an ordinance targeting illegal
immigrants, Whitteaker has earned praise from advocates across the country who
oppose illegal immigration but has drawn scorn from some of his own residents
who say he's putting his personal celebrity ahead of the city.

At most Valley Park Board of Aldermen meetings these days, two groups routinely
attend: Visitors who want an ordinance similar to Valley Park's code, which
focuses on landlords, and Valley Park residents who say the mayor has become an
embarrassment.

"This issue and the way it has been presented makes us look like racists," Mary
Fehner recently told the mayor.

Whitteaker, 47, has lived in Valley Park all his life and has been described as
a hard-working "average guy." He is married with four daughters and drives a
tractor trailer for a an excavation and crane company. He also owns a small
landscaping business.

He first became an alderman in 1994 and then mayor in late 2005. He served in
public office in relative obscurity until he began to lead the push for stronger
rules against illegal immigrants.

Since then, Valley Park is regularly mentioned in the national debate on illegal
immigration, and the mayor has appeared on several national news programs. In
October, Whitteaker bought a $360 television with the city's money and had it
mounted in his office to track the reports.

But there are signs the celebrity is wearing thin for the mayor and the town.

In recent months, two board members have called for his resignation. And after a
published interview in which he reportedly made racially derogatory statements,
the board briefly attempted to muzzle him.

Meanwhile, the city has run up more than $80,000 in bills to defend the
ordinance in court, and Whitteaker has blocked an effort by some aldermen to
dump the law and disentangle the city from its legal woes.

And now the mayor has stopped talking to the press.

"Obviously we are in litigation," said City Attorney Eric Martin, referring to
the suits challenging the city's ordinance. "His thoughts and comments about
litigation should be kept to himself at this point."

Unlikely location

Valley Park seems like an unlikely place for a immigration reform effort. The
suburb located roughly 20 miles southwest of St. Louis is nearly 90 percent
white. Whitteaker has acknowledged there is little evidence to suggest the city
has a problem with illegal immigrants.

But one day last July, the mayor heard a story on the radio about Hazleton,
Penn., a city that had just passed an ordinance penalizing businesses and
landlords for hiring and renting to illegal immigrants.

Whitteaker liked what he heard, and roughly two weeks later the city's aldermen
approved a similar measure. "Preventative maintenance," Whitteaker called the
ordinance at the time.

Within a month, the Archdiocese of St. Louis was helping relocate more than 20
Hispanic families who feared being evicted from their homes or deported. Some
took off so quickly they left behind furniture.

In September, a coalition of about 20 attorneys sued the city over its ordinance
that fined businesses and landlords for hiring and renting to illegal
immigrants. The law, they argued, promoted racial profiling, harmed businesses
and led to housing discrimination. In March, a St. Louis County Circuit Court
judge struck down the ordinance.

But the city already had retooled the law, passing a new ordinance denying
occupancy permits to landlords renting to illegal immigrants. Fearing another
suit, the board voted to repeal it. Whitteaker, however, vetoed the decision,
and now the city faces two more lawsuits over the new ordinance.

Valley Park's focus on illegal immigrants became national news, from the front
page of the Los Angeles Times to NBC's "Nightly News" as well as ABC's
"Nightline."

"I saw it on (CNN's) 'Lou Dobbs,'" said Kirkwood resident Donna Ivanovich,
chairman of Missouri's Constitution Party. Ivanovich has become one of
Whitteaker's staunchest supporters, helping organize a fundraiser to cover the
city's legal costs.

"Look at our president and some of our officials," said Ivanovich, the chairman
of the state's Constitution Party. "They are pathetic compared to this man."

Hundreds of letters and e-mails poured into City Hall, most in support of
Whitteaker. So far, his supporters have donated roughly $9,000 to cover the
city's legal costs.

Whitteaker's statements about illegal immigrants and drunk driving wouldn't be
the first time his words came back to haunt him. Several residents became
outraged over two phrases he uttered a few months ago in reference to Hispanics:
"Cousin Puerto Rico" and "Taco whoever."

Whitteaker made the statements about his fear of the city being overrun with
illegal immigrants in an article published Feb. 28 in the Riverfront Times.

"No one can be that offensive in their language without some underlying
motivation," said Valley Park resident Philip Soto. "He doesn't even understand
that Puerto Ricans are citizens."

The city's aldermen initially passed a resolution forbidding any city official
from talking to the media without the city attorney but later repealed it. Two
aldermen have urged the mayor to consider resigning.

"You've embarrassed your family, this board of aldermen and the citizens of
Valley Park," Alderman Don Carroll said during a March 5 board meeting. "You
should very seriously consider stepping down."

Supporters

Valley Park meetings have been attended by members of the Minutemen Civil
Defense Corps, an anti-illegal immigration group, whose members have patrolled
the U.S-Mexican border to prevent illegal crossings.

And there have been people throughout the St. Louis area who want their cities
to pass a similar legislation.

Of all the cities in Missouri, "only one is brave enough to make an ordinance,"
said Wildwood resident Janet Renner, founder of Missourian's Against Illegal
Immigration. "I think (Whitteaker) is a hero. He is defending the people of
America."

Martin, the city attorney, fielded questions last week on Whitteaker's behalf.
He brought up the 21-year-old woman who was recently killed in Maryland Heights
after an illegal immigrant crashed into a car she was riding in. Police said the
man had no drivers license, no proof of insurance and hid in the woods after the
accident.

"Recent events show the wisdom of (the mayor's) position," Martin said.

At the board's last meeting in April, announced that the city clerk, Marguerite
Wilburn, who also is his sister, would read a few e-mails supporting the
ordinance.

One complained of "30 to 40 Mexicans" playing volleyball in a park near Valley
Park. "I bet 30 were here illegally," it stated.

Such e-mails would now be fixtures at board meetings, Whitteaker said. "I'll be
bringing more and more of these out just to let everybody hear what a lot of
people's thoughts are."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Valley Park mayor faces

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Whitteaker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Senate reaches compromise on landmark immigration bill

BYLINE: By Robert Pear and Jim Rutenberg NEW YORK TIMES The Washington Post and
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Measure, which has Bush's approval, would ... o Give 12 million illegals a path
to citizenship. o Tighten border security. o Favor skilled workers for entry.

---

Senate negotiators from both parties announced Thursday that they had reached
agreement on a comprehensive immigration bill that would offer legal status to
most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants while also toughening border
security.

If the bill becomes law, it would result in the biggest changes in immigration
law and policy in more than 20 years. That would provide President George W.
Bush with a political lift and a tangible accomplishment for his second term, as
well as a solid achievement for the new Democratic leadership in Congress.

At the heart of the bill is a significant political tradeoff. Democrats got a
legalization program, which they have sought for many years. Republicans got a
new "merit-based system of immigration," intended to make the United States more
competitive in a global economy.

The Senate deal would grant temporary legal status to virtually all illegal
immigrants in the country, while allowing them to apply for residence visas and
eventual citizenship. A temporary worker program would allow up to 400,000
migrants into the country each year, but they would have to leave after two
years. And the current visa system, that stresses family ties for migrants,
would be augmented by a complex point system that would favor skilled, educated
workers. Most of those changes would take effect only after the implementation
of tough new border controls and a crackdown on the employment of undocumented
workers.

Bush praised the Senate measure, which incorporates many of his ideas, saying,
"I really am anxious to sign a comprehensive immigration bill as soon as I
possibly can."

The bill goes to the Senate floor next week, where negotiators predicted that it
would receive overwhelming support. One reason for that optimism was the
symbolic partnership in evidence at the news conference where the package was
announced by 10 senators, including Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the Senate's
most liberal members, and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., a staunch conservative who is
chairman of the Senate Republican Conference.

The measure's prospects are less clear in the House, which plans to take up
immigration in July.

Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif., a former chairman of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus, said he had grave concerns about the Senate bill.

"It's a pretty radical shift to go to an employment-based visa system as opposed
to a family system," Becerra said in an interview. "You will continue to have
close family members separated from their loved ones because of this policy."

The bill includes a temporary worker program, under which 400,000 to 600,000
foreign workers could be admitted to the country each year.

Becerea said the proposal would create "a permanent underclass of imported
workers to fill American jobs."

Under the plan, the U.S. would admit future arrivals seeking to put down roots
in the U.S. based on their skills, education levels and job experience, limiting
the importance of family ties.

Negotiators emphasized that foreign-born spouses and minor children of U.S.
citizens would continue to receive preference in the allocation of visas.

---

talk STLtoday.com/current What do you think of the immigration agreement? Talk
about it in current affairs.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., (left), Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,  and
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., share a laugh before a news conference to announce
a compromise on immigration legislation between the White House and the Senate
Thursday in Washington.   Chip Somodevilla | Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 293 words


COLUMBIA, S.C.

GOP gathering displays anti-immigration mood

The crowd at South Carolina's Republican convention cheered Saturday when former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney criticized a new immigration proposal and booed
when a key ally of U.S. Sen. John McCain defended it.

The immigration compromise between key senators and the White House played
strongly at the convention as more than 1,000 delegates and Republican activists
gathered.

In his speech and before his remarks, Romney said a proposed new visa for
immigrants amounts to amnesty if it can be renewed indefinitely.

"If that's not a form of amnesty, I don't know what is," Romney said.

The crowd booed South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, a McCain ally, when he said
he had worked with Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., on the immigration legislation.

WASHINGTON

Illegal immigrants would get tax break

President George W. Bush's administration insisted on a little-noticed change in
the bipartisan Senate immigration bill that would enable 12 million undocumented
residents to avoid paying back taxes or associated fines to the Internal Revenue
Service, officials said.

A provision requiring payment of back taxes had been in the initial version of a
bill proposed by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. But the administration
called for the provision to be removed due to concern that it would be too
difficult to figure out which illegal immigrants owed back taxes.

Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff, speaking in reference to
illegal immigrants seeking legal status, said, "You've got to pay your taxes."
He did not state whether he was referring to back taxes, future taxes, or both.

White House spokesman Scott Stanzel, asked Friday to clarify Chertoff's remark,
said it referred only to future taxes.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Missouri, Kansas won't shift stance on tax refunds for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


Uncle Sam might be willing to give refunds to illegal immigrants who have paid
more than their share of federal income taxes, but Missouri and Kansas aren't so
generous.

Tax officials in the two states insist that taxpayers provide accurate
information on their returns in order to get a refund, if one is due. But often,
workers who are in the country illegally use a false Social Security number,
then provide additional tax information when filing a return.

For the feds, having an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number - created in
1996 to ensure every worker pays income taxes - attached to a return is enough
even if there's a false Social Security number listed on the W-2 form.

From 1996 to 2003, people who filed returns using an ITIN contributed $48
billion to the U.S. Treasury and received $23 billion in refunds. In 2005, the
IRS received 1.6 million ITIN applications, the most since 1996.

But Kansas and Missouri, though happy to receive the income taxes, won't provide
a refund because they say they can't be sure from whom the money was withheld
without a Social Security number.

Critics say it's a double standard for states to accept income tax payments from
illegal immigrants but then not provide refunds when there has been an
overpayment.

"Either you accept all of the payments and (give the) refund, or you return
everything," said Maria Aranda, who helps immigrants file taxes at the social
service agency El Centro Inc. "To me, it's either all or none. You can't have it
both ways."

But state tax officials say taxpayers must provide truthful information, and
that's not happening when an illegal worker uses a false Social Security number.

With Congress considering immigration reform that could provide a path to
citizenship for immigrants who have properly paid their income taxes, more than
money is at stake for those workers.

In Missouri, the Department of Revenue won't process a return if the worker uses
an ITIN and attaches a W-2, said Jim Brentlinger, the department's tax bureau
administrator.

In those cases, the state sends the worker a letter requesting documentation for
why the return doesn't have the Social Security number that is on the W-2.

The department doesn't know how much tax money is collected from illegal
immigrants or how much refund money is withheld.

"When someone has gained employment with a Social Security number that's not
their own, (the department) has no way to verify that that Social Security
number belongs to them or that the money withheld by the employer was withheld
for this employee," Brentlinger said. "Department of Revenue doesn't have an
issue with immigration or employment - just data that has been submitted to us
doesn't match."

In the past decade, the Kansas Department of Revenue has received 41,000 returns
using ITINs, said Bev Ries, the department's public service administrator.

When the department receives an ITIN return seeking a refund based on income
from a W-2, the state sends a letter to the employer requesting documentation
that the person who filed the tax return is the same person who earned the
wages.

But even if the employer confirms the identity of the person who presented the
Social Security number, it still doesn't count as validation, Ries said.

A spokeswoman with the national Federation of Tax Administrators said the
position taken by Missouri and Kansas makes sense.

"What's the state going to do?" said Verenda Smith, government affairs associate
with the federation. "States cannot issue refunds for anyone who asks for it. If
you did, that would just be opening the doors to the state bank and saying,
'Here, guys, come on in.' "

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Good, bad and ugly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 742 words


The bi-partisan immigration compromise bill in the Senate is being attacked from
all sides: from business, from labor, from those who want to wall off our
southern border and from those who want to open the borders wide to a flood of
newcomers.

It does not make anyone completely happy, but compromises rarely do.

What it does do is provide a rational framework for addressing America's
enormous immigration dilemma. It protects certain economic interests while
giving the 12 million illegal immigrants already here options less punitive than
deportation, persecution or jail.

Under the plan, illegal immigrants who were in the country before January would
be granted new "Z" visas after paying a $5,000 fine and passing an English test
and a criminal background check. After waiting at least eight years, and
returning home to apply, they could receive permanent residency and follow a
prescribed path to citizenship. The big "pay-to-stay" fine and the nonsensical
"touch back" on foreign soil were added to satisfy conservatives who feel that
border-jumping should be punished. Illegal immigrants already pay taxes, and
that should be punishment enough.

America, as has been said often, is a nation of immigrants. Our culture, our
economy and our identity are all the richer for it. There is nothing good or
fair or righteous about ignoring the needs and contributions of 12 million
illegal workers who live in fear of their employers, neighbors and government
authorities. There should be no underclass in the land of the free.

Illegal workers often are exploited by unscrupulous bosses who undercut American
wages and wage-earners. Employers paying taxes and fair wages have to compete
against the cash-under-the-table cheaters. A "Z" visa would be a ticket to a
decent job for an immigrant and a blow to low-wage employers. That's a win for
American workers.

The plan also would allow 400,000 temporary workers into the country for
low-skilled jobs each year. The effect of that on American workers is less
clear.

The number of temporary visas equals roughly the number of people thought to
sneak across the border illegally. The plan would ease pressure on the border,
and reduce deaths in the desert at the hands of "coyotes" and others who profit
from human smuggling.

The worry is that employers will hire foreign workers to avoid paying better
wages to Americans. The bill says that employers must try to hire Americans
first, and temporary workers must be paid the prevailing wage for the job. Those
provisions are weak, however. They're similar to those in the H1b visa program,
which often are evaded. A robust prevailing wage provision is a necessity to
protect paychecks for Americans.

With minor corrections, the temporary worker plan would be good policy.

One of the worst provisions of the bill is the shift in preference for permanent
residency away from family unification and toward applicants with education,
technical skills and English literacy. Citizens and permanent residents still
could bring in spouses and minor children. But siblings and parents would have a
tougher time.

This callous provision will cause untold heartache and ignores the familial and
cultural bonds that immigrants need intact if they are to successfully weather
the stresses of life in a new country.

Business complains that the new system won't give enough preference to skilled
workers who actually have American job offers over skilled workers who don't.
That's a good point, and it should be easy to address.

The government would issue no temporary or Z-visas until border security is
tightened, which could take about 18 months. The bill calls for hiring 18,000
more border patrol agents, building 370 miles of fence and more miles of vehicle
barriers. Businesses would have to check employees against a new federal
database of people here legally.

This is part of the compromise designed to win votes from conservatives. But
increasing border security also is common sense. The Mexican border is a sieve.
As long as it remains so, any immigration solution can be only temporary as more
illegal workers who can't get visas manage to sneak across. Building a short
fence across a long border is idiotic.

The plan was hammered out between the White House and key Democratic and
Republican leaders in the Senate. The Senate is expected to debate it soon. For
all its flaws, it is a starting point toward a rational and humane approach to a
problem that badly needs one.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

YOUR VIEWS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 169 words


What's the source?

Mr. David Nicklaus impressed me because he knows the "annual inflow" of legal
and illegal immigrants into the United States. In his May 23 article,
"Immigration fact: U.S. is not flooded with foreign workers," he presented a
typical business argument for immigration while avoiding the topic of amnesty.
However, his column does not provide a source for his "fact" that there is not a
flood of illegal immigrants entering the United States.

The real facts are we have a porous border with Mexico, and the U.S. government
does not even know if legal immigrants remain in the country beyond their
expiration date. We need better border security and penalties for anyone who
knowingly employs illegal immigrants.

Dan Gould | Ballwin

---

SEND US A LETTER Write: Letters to the Business editor, St. Louis Post-Dispatch,
900 North Tucker Boulevard St. Louis, Mo. 63101

E-mail: ajackson@post-dispatch.com

Fax: 314-340-3060

Please include a daytime telephone number for verification. Letters are subject
to editing.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Commentary

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

More illegals try to get kids smuggled in WHY o Parents who sneak across U.S.
border believe it's too dangerous to bring youngsters. HOW o Women who can cross
border legally are paid to pose as mothers of the children.

BYLINE: By Amanda Lee Myers THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


An increasing number of illegal immigrants who left their children back home are
hiring complete strangers to bring the youngsters into this country by bluffing
their way past U.S. border inspectors.

Typically, the stranger poses as the child's mother or another relative as she
drives through a checkpoint. Sometimes the children are given cough syrup to
sedate them and ensure that they don't do anything to make border guards
suspicious.

U.S. officials say they are seeing more such cases because stepped-up
enforcement along the border has made it more dangerous to sneak into the
country by trekking across the desert.

"People who may be afraid or think it's too dangerous to bring a child through
the desert when it's 120 degrees think it's better to place a child in the hands
of a total stranger," said Roger Maier, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection
spokesman in Texas.

U.S. officials warned that entrusting children to a stranger is foolish, too.

"There's no guarantee that you're going to be reunited with your child. There's
no guarantee that your child is being cared for," said Brian Levin, a U.S.
Customs and Border Protection spokesman in Arizona.

Nevertheless, officials at the border could not cite a specific case of a child
being hurt or stolen in the smuggling scheme.

Dozens of U.S. citizens, permanent residents and other women with a legal right
to be in this country have been prosecuted in the past few years for trying to
smuggle children into the U.S. Border officials said they do not have exact
numbers but believe such cases are on the rise.

The women are typically poor and are hired by smugglers for $100 to $500 for the
transaction. They are often mothers themselves, and use their own children's
birth certificates when they drive through a checkpoint.

"They're a vulnerable class of people who get sucked into this," said Joel
Parris, an assistant federal public defender in Tucson who has defended several
female smugglers. "These women are so focused on surviving and taking care of
their own kids, when someone comes with a pity trip, their sympathy is so strong
they can't resist."

Ana Meza-Montano, 36, a single mother from Agua Prieta, Mexico, across the
border from Douglas, Ariz., had a border crossing card that allowed her to enter
the United States for short periods to shop and run other errands.

Meza-Montano was caught at the Douglas port of entry trying to smuggle a
year-old girl who she said was her daughter.

Parris, who defended her, said Meza-Montano agreed to the transaction because a
smuggler had offered to pay off her son's $100 bicycle, which was on layaway at
a Wal-Mart. The woman is serving a 15-month prison sentence.

Officials say the smuggling tactic has become more common partly because more
illegal immigrants are deciding to bring their families into the country. In the
past, it was more common for men to leave their families behind and return
periodically for visits.

Also, because of tighter enforcement by the Border Patrol and the National
Guard, illegal immigrants who want to sneak across the desert are being forced
to make the attempt along more remote, more rugged - and more dangerous -
stretches of the border.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Senate debates immigration bill

BYLINE: McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A White House-backed immigration bill remained largely unscathed Wednesday after
withstanding assaults on two components - a guest-worker program and
legalization for millions of undocumented immigrants.

As many as a dozen amendments were in store Wednesday night as the Senate moved
into a home-stretch mode to try to complete action on the bill, possibly by
early next week. The Senate was expected to vote today on a motion by Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., to cut off debate.

Supporters overcame a big challenge Wednesday by defeating an amendment by Sen.
John Cornyn, R-Texas, that would have denied legalization for hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants who defied deportation orders in the past or
re-entered the country after being deported.

Hours later, however, senators passed a Cornyn amendment that would allow law
enforcement officers to inspect applications of immigrants who applied - but
were rejected - for the new legalization program. The amendment wasn't expected
to unravel support for the bill, although critics said it would discourage
illegal immigrants from stepping forward.

Senators rejected an amendment by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., to require illegal
immigrants to have high-deductible health insurance in order to obtain new
temporary visas.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What should U.S. immigration policy be? Talk about it in
Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Leaky borders and limited lives

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 788 words


On Thursday, the U.S. Senate refused to pass a comprehesive immigration bill
supported by the Bush White House and the leadership of both political parties.
If that rejection were to hold, these would be some of the consequences:

- Twelve million illegal aliens would continue to live in America as members of
an underclass - trapped in low-wage jobs, many paid in under-the-table cash,
afraid of the police and raising American-born children in poverty. The proposed
bill would have given legal status to those without criminal records and offered
them a difficult but by no means guaranteed path to citizenship.

- Their numbers would grow as more sneak into the country, most across the
Mexican border. The bill would have added 18,000 border patrol agents and paid
for 370 miles of fencing and many more miles of vehicle barriers.

- Unscrupulous employers would continue to hire illegals and laugh at the law.
The bill would have required employers to check new hires against a national
database to ensure the legality of their status, and it would have tightened
enforcement against employers who cheat. The lesson from the Senate's refusal to
act last week? Crime pays.

- By continuing to pay rock-bottom wages, those same unscrupulous employers
would continue to take business from companies run by honest executives who obey
the law. We saw a vivid example of that in O'Fallon, Mo., last year, when
American construction workers picketed a major construction site where a
contractor had brought in illegal workers he could pay cheaply.

Last week, 50 senators voted to cut off debate and bring the bill to a vote,
while 45 opposed; under the rules of the Senate, 60 votes are required to cut
off debate. The Democratic leadership then pulled the bill from the floor.
Realistically, votes would have to change for the bill to be revived and stand a
chance at passage.

President George W. Bush worked hard for passage, and he's still trying. "I'll
see you at the bill signing," he said Monday. But between the effective
organized opposition to the bill and the president's plummeting approval
ratings, Republicans in Congress who once followed the president faithfully have
developed minds of their own.

The immigration bill was a compromise hammered out among senators of both
parties. They labored over a complex problem made nearly intractable by
ideological baggage and political posturing. As introduced, the bill satisfied
no one completely, which may have been its undoing. It certainly drew fire from
all sides.

Strong conservatives, for example, opposed granting visas to people who defied
the rules to get here. But the United States goverment is not going to deport 12
million people. Here's how Michael Chertoff, secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security, put it last week: "I understand there is an elegance to the
proposition that when you break the law you should not benefit from it," he
said. "But I also recognize in real life . . . there are degrees to breaking the
law. It's important to solve the problem, as opposed to holding out for a purity
of resolution that doesn't exist in the real world."

Meanwhile, technology businesses objected because the bill wouldn't provide for
the admission of enough of the highly skilled workers they need, and pro-labor
lawmakers were leery of a plan to admit 400,000 guest workers on temporary visas
for low-skilled jobs.

The defeat was a bipartisan affair, although more Republicans opposed the bill.
Missouri's two senators, Democrat Claire McCaskill and Republican Christopher
"Kit" Bond, voted against it. Illinois' two Democratic senators, Barack Obama
and Richard Durbin, voted for it.

Mr. Bond objects to so-called amnesty for illegals, although he favors the
tighter border protections in the bill. Ms. McCaskill, a former prosecutor,
wanted tougher prosecution of employers who hire illegals and opposed aspects of
the guest-worker program. She predicted that many of the bill's guest workers
would have gone underground when their visas expired and that the problem of
illegals would have started growing again.

The bill's guest worker plan needs improvement, but the bill as a whole would do
much good. Accepting imperfections - in the real world, as Mr. Chertoff
explained - is the essence of compromise. Without it, no immigration bill ever
will pass, and the problem will fester.

The American people are as torn as their elected representatives. According to a
recent ABC News/Washington Post poll, 52 percent of Americans favor a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, while 44 percent oppose it. Overall, the
American people want immigration reform. Mr. Bond and Ms. McCaskill should
reconsider their doubts, accept compromise and provide that reform.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 331 words


DALLAS

Judge blocks ban on rentals to illegals

A federal judge on Tuesday blocked the Dallas suburb of Farmers Branch from
enforcing a voter-approved law prohibiting apartment rentals to illegal
immigrants, until a legal challenge is resolved.

U.S. District Judge Sam Lindsay had issued a temporary restraining order in May,
blocking the law a day before it was to take effect. He issued a preliminary
injunction Tuesday.

The law would have required apartment managers to verify that renters are U.S.
citizens or legal immigrants before leasing to them, with a few exceptions.
Landlords would have faced fines of up to $500 for violating the measure, with
each day considered as a separate violation.

WASHINGTON

Area nurse, firefighter is named to FEMA panel

Angelia Mary Elgin, a registered nurse, firefighter, paramedic and instructor at
St. Louis Community College, soon could have one more entry on her resume: a
member of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's first national advisory
council.

Elgin was among 30 people named by FEMA administrator David Paulison on Tuesday
to the panel ordered by Congress after the 2005 Hurricane Katrina debacle to
assist the federal agency that manages disaster preparedness and recovery.

Nominations become final after approval of disclosure forms.

PHILADELPHIA

Adams dollar coins lack edge inscriptions

It looks as if the U.S. Mint has struck again - or not struck again, depending
on how you look at it.

New dollar coins featuring John Adams are missing edge inscriptions including
"In God We Trust," according to the Professional Coin Grading Service, a
rare-coin authentication company based in Newport Beach, Calif.

The company said people had found hundreds of Adams dollar coins without the
edge lettering, repeating a previous mistake.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. Mint said the agency was looking into the reports.

The Adams dollars, officially released into circulation May 17, are the second
in a series of presidential coins slated to run until 2016.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 718 words


VALLEY PARK

Residents question cost of immigration defense

Members of the Board of Aldermen say they are committed to defending three suits
that challenge the constitutionality of the municipality's ordinance against
illegal immigration. But aldermen say they do not expect to write more
legislation on the topic.

The ordinance approved last summer aims to punish landlords and employers for
renting to or hiring illegal immigrants. The American Civil Liberties Union and
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund sued Valley Park.

At the board's recent meeting, several residents spoke on the topic.

Leo Anglo told the board that the legal fight was a futile expense for Valley
Park, and Jewell Mosley said the amount of money spent on legal bills, at least
$80,000, was an embarrassment.

Jim Morris said that special-interest groups and lawyers seeking to discredit
Valley Park with cries of racism and bigotry were exploiting illegal immigrants
for profit. Janet Renner of Missourians Against Illegal Immigration said
residents of Valley Park were at risk of increasing crime and disease, thus
putting a strain on the municipal budget.

WILDWOOD

Petitions want to cut cost of a new City Hall

Some Wildwood residents opposed to spending $8 million for a new City Hall may
have enough signatures on petitions to scale down the project.

City Attorney Robert Golterman says the St. Louis County Election Board received
the petitions and considered them to have the required number of valid
signatures to prod the City Council to reduce the cost.

The petitions call for an ordinance as well as an amendment to the city charter.
The ordinance would put a cap on the cost of the new City Hall, one several
million dollars less than $8 million. The charter amendment would require
officials to put on the ballot any capital expense beyond a certain amount.

Golterman called the petitions "legally deficient" and said the state
constitution barred any initiative proposals that would result in a conflict
with the constitution or a city charter. He says he believes that what is
requested by the petitions would constitute such a conflict because it affects
the council's legal ability to make budget decisions.

MAPLEWOOD-RICHMOND HEIGHTS SCHOOL DISTRICT

School Board approves a deficit budget

The Maplewood-Richmond Heights School Board has approved a deficit budget with
about $13.5 million in revenue and about $14.3 million in expenses. The
district's reserves are expected to decrease to about $2.8 million by the end of
the school year.

The budget includes a 4 percent salary increase for principals and support-staff
workers and a 4.5 percent increase for teachers, other administrators, nurses,
counselors, librarians, social workers and technology specialists. The budget
also calls for adding three full-time teachers, a part-time preschool aide,
another custodian and a part-time technology specialist.

In addition to the operating budget, the board authorized Wachovia to sell $9
million in new bonds and refinance $5,875,784 from previous bonds. The district
will repay the bonds, with an interest rate of about 4.5 percent, over 20 years.
Voters approved a $9 million bond proposal in April for a high school auditorium
and other upgrades in the building as well as classroom additions, renovated
bathrooms and a new library and cafeteria at the Early Childhood Center and
upgrades at the district office.

MARYLAND HEIGHTS

Household recycling service will be offered

Household recycling will be a free service to property owners in Maryland
Heights.

The City Council has approved a new contract with Allied Waste to provide the
service starting in January. The municipality already has a contract with the
Arizona-based company to provide free trash pickup. It added free yard waste
removal in May.

In addition, the council agreed to allow condominium owners to receive the same
benefits. Previously, only single-family houses benefited.

The $1.6 million to pay for the program is from tax revenue from gambling
casinos.

OVERLAND

$8.4 million budget approved for next year

The City Council has approved an $8.4 million budget for the next fiscal year.

The amount is an increase of less than 1 percent from the current year. The vote
was 5-2 with council members Ken Owensby and Peggy Keller, both 3rd Ward,
opposed.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ST. LOUIS COUNTY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration bill expected to be 'close call' Bipartisan group of senators fend
off a series of potentially killer amendments.

BYLINE: McClatchy Newspapers Ron Harris of the Post-Dispatch Washington bureau
contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The outlook for a White House-backed immigration bill was increasingly uncertain
Wednesday as several critics hardened their position against the bill and
supporters led by President George W. Bush scrambled to court votes from
wavering senators.

The fate of the president's top domestic initiative could be decided today with
a crucial test in the Senate that will decide whether it moves forward for a
final vote the following day or collapses amid deep political divisions.

"This is going to give new meaning to the notion of close call," said Sen. Ron
Wyden, D-Ore., who said he won't decide whether to support or oppose the
627-page bill until senators complete work on amendments.

The bill has come under attack from both ends of the political spectrum. It
would legalize 12 million illegal immigrants, establish a temporary guest-worker
program, toughen border security and increase penalties for employers who hire
illegal immigrants.

A bipartisan group of senators who crafted the legislation with help from the
White House fended off a series of potentially killer amendments Wednesday and
expressed confidence that they could steer the bill to a successful vote on
final passage by late Friday.

But they must first get a 60-vote majority today to begin cutting off debate.

At least two Republicans who'd been critical of the bill - Sens. Kay Bailey
Hutchison of Texas and Christopher "Kit" Bond of Missouri - declared their
intention to vote against the measure after the defeat of amendments that they
had deemed necessary to gain their support.

Hutchison's amendment, which senators tabled by a 53-45 vote, would have
required adult illegal immigrants to return home before getting "Z visas" that
would enable them to live and work indefinitely in the United States.

Bond's amendment would have blocked any path to citizenship for the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants already in the country.

"Citizenship is the most precious gift America can provide," Bond said on the
floor of the Senate. "I and many others believe it should not serve as a reward
for those who broke the law to enter and remain in this country.

"Those 12 million came to this country to work, without expectations of becoming
citizens. There's no need to grant these people the gift of citizenship when
they came here just to meet their economic needs."

Bond's amendment was defeated 56 to 41.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration bill dies Reform measure backed by Bush and crafted by a bipartisan
group fails to garner enough support from GOP senators.

BYLINE: By Ron Harris POST-DISPATCH WASHINGTON BUREAU Post-Dispatch news
services contributed information for this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate dashed hopes for President George W. Bush's plan for a comprehensive
immigration bill on Thursday, voting 53-46 to block the legislation.

The likelihood of it coming back anytime soon is between slim and none, senators
said.

"Absent a miraculous revival, it is not going to move forward," said Illinois
Sen. Dick Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, who voted for the
bill.

Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill agreed.

"Oh, it's dead," said McCaskill, one of 15 Democrats who voted against the
legislation. "This was the president's number one priority, and he couldn't get
the Republican Senate leader to go for this bill with him. I can't imagine that
there could be any bigger signal to the president that this bill is dead."

A bipartisan group of senators and administration officials had crafted the bill
that would have paved the way for millions of undocumented immigrants to be in
the nation legally. Many could have eventually become citizens under the
legislation.

The bill would have also dramatically increased the nation's guest-worker
program, provided tougher enforcement against employers who hire illegal
immigrants and tightened border security.

Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., voted for the bill to move forward; Sen. Christopher
"Kit" Bond, R-Mo., voted against it.

"We need to do more to secure our borders, but we cannot be held hostage by
those who want amnesty for illegal aliens," Bond said. "The amnesty provisions
and the $20 billion in new unfunded mandatory entitlement spending for illegal
immigrants doomed this bill, and I was proud to oppose it."

Bush said he was disappointed.

"Legal immigration is one of the top concerns of the American people, and
Congress' failure to act on it is a disappointment," Bush said after appearing
in Newport, R.I. "A lot of us worked hard to see if we couldn't find common
ground. It didn't work."

The bill's future looked increasingly shaky as the week went on. Several
amendments were defeated and critics hardened their opposition.

More than two-thirds of the Democratic senators - 33 - supported the bill.

"You can't point fingers at the Democrats on this," said Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid of Nevada. "We did our share."

But when only 12 Republicans and one independent, Sen. Joseph Lieberman of
Connecticut, joined them, the bill was doomed. It needed 60 votes to move
forward.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., one of the measure's major detractors, said the
bill's defeat was the will of the people. The bill had been opposed by the
American Civil Liberties Union and the AFL-CIO, as well as conservative talk
show hosts.

On the morning of the vote, a flood of calls from bill opponents shut down the
Capitol's telephone system.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., a co-sponsor of the bill, said after the vote:
"It's extremely difficult for me to understand how the American people want to
have broken borders. It's difficult for me to believe that the American people
thought the solution was to send 12 million back to their countries by bus or by
train."

Thursday's vote was the second time this month that the bill had gone down in
defeat. Durbin said he was especially disappointed in Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who Durbin said had asked the Democratic majority to
resurrect the bill because he had enough Republican senators aligned with him to
move the bill forward.

"When we met with him, he said, 'I wouldn't be here if I didn't support this.'"

But on Thursday, McConnell joined most of the Republican senators in voting
against it.

"The American people made their voices heard, the Senate worked its will, and in
the end it was clear that the bill that was crafted did not have the support of
the people of Kentucky. It did not have the support of most Americans,"
McConnell said.

Some, such as the National Immigration Forum, a coalition of groups backing the
legislation, expressed their dismay.

"What happens next in Congress is unclear, but what happens on the ground is
not," said Frank Sherry, director of the organization. "Immigrant workers and
families will continue to live in fear, die in the desert and be subject to
exploitation. Local communities will continue to be roiled by federal inaction
and local ordinances. Voters will continue to ask why their elected leaders seem
incapable of solving tough problems."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Day laborers from the Washington area wait Thursday in the Senate
Reception Room for the results of the vote on an immigration reform measure. It
was effectively blocked on a vote of 53-46. The New York Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park changes strategy Facing costly suits, city drops targeting of
landlords but still defends ban on hiring illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: VALLEY PARK


The city has abandoned efforts to enforce an ordinance that targets landlords
who rent to illegal immigrants, but it will still fight to keep one that
prohibits employers from giving them jobs.

For months, the city of 6,500 has wrestled with the costs of defending itself in
three lawsuits challenging the ordinances. Thus far, the suits have cost the
city more than $80,000.

On July 16, for the second time in five months, the Board of Aldermen voted to
repeal parts of its housing code that denied occupancy permits to landlords
renting to illegal immigrants.

Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker had vetoed earlier legislation, but this past week
decided to sign it.

Whitteaker did not return phone messages seeking comment.

Kris Kobach, a University of Missouri-Kansas City law professor who is working
for Valley Park, said the mayor's actions reflected a change in legal strategy,
"not a concession."

Kobach said the city still plans to fight a lawsuit in federal court that
challenges Valley Park's right to have an ordinance prohibiting the employment
of illegal immigrants.

Kobach accused the American Civil Liberties Union and attorneys from the Bryan
Cave law firm of trying to "bankrupt a small town" with a barrage of lawsuits.

"It's a typical strategy for the ACLU," he said, adding that it was less costly
for the city to fight for the employment ordinance.

Valley Park landlords have complained that they have no expertise in determining
who is in the country illegally and that they could not follow the city's
ordinance. They've also said that the ordinance could lead them to discriminate
against Hispanic tenants to avoid being penalized.

Florence Streeter, a Valley Park landlord and plaintiff in one of the lawsuits,
called the development a victory.

"We are no longer put in a position where we have to discriminate," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 25, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Connecticut town issues ID cards to illegal immigrants The cards - available to
all residents - allow holders to open bank accounts and access other services.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Conn.


Dozens of people lined up at City Hall on Tuesday for municipal identification
cards, the first city-issued ID cards specifically designed to bring illegal
immigrants out of the shadows and give them access to community services.

The cards, available to New Haven's entire population, are meant to help anyone
without a state- or federal-issued ID to open bank accounts and use other
services that would otherwise be inaccessible.

Advocates argue that if immigrants can open bank accounts, they will be less
likely to carry large amounts of cash, a practice that makes them easy targets
for robbers.

An estimated 10,000 to 12,000 of New Haven's 125,000 residents are thought to be
in the country illegally.

"The simple, straightforward purpose here is to build a stronger community,"
Mayor John DeStefano said. "You can't police a community of people who won't
talk to our cops."

The mayor said the federal government had failed to address immigration-related
issues, forcing cities to find ways to manage them. New Haven is simply
acknowledging the people who already live there, he said.

"I think New Haven is doing something that makes sense for New Haven," DeStefano
said.

Ray Sanchez, 36, a laborer waiting in line at City Hall with more than 100
others, said the card would allow him to get a library card, use banks and learn
English. It also will make him feel safer, he said.

"We need to send money to the places we come from," Sanchez said. "For me, I
feel better. If the police catch me, I have identification now."

There was also a contingent of protesters at City Hall on Tuesday. Bob Luciani,
a teacher from Woodbridge, said he was concerned that other cities might do what
New Haven had done.

"It's going to metastasize across, all over the country," he said. "I think this
is totally illegal. If we don't go by laws, then we're going to have anarchy."

Another protester held a sign reading: "You have cheated on those who have been
waiting to enter the country legally."

The ID cards stand in contrast to new laws or proposals in more than 90 cities
or counties around the nation prohibiting landlords from leasing to illegal
immigrants and penalizing businesses that employ them, or training police to
enforce immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A mixed group of demonstrators in New Haven, Conn., take stands on the
identification cards being issued to illegal immigrants Tuesday. Elm City is New
Haven's nickname. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

A dream deferred With tighter border, more Mexicans stay home

BYLINE: By Traci Carl the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: TECATE, Mexico


Mexican shelters, usually the last stop for northbound migrants, are filling
with southbound deportees. Fewer migrants are crossing in the wind-swept deserts
along an increasingly fortified border. Far to the north, fields are empty at
harvest time as workplace raids become more common.

Mexicans are increasingly giving up on the American dream and staying home, and
the federal crackdown on undocumented workers announced Friday should discourage
even potential migrants from taking the risks as the United States purges itself
of its illegal population.

U.S. border agents detained 55,545 illegal migrants jumping over border walls,
walking through the desert and swimming across the Rio Grande River between
October and June. That's down 38 percent for the entire border compared to the
same period a year before.

U.S. and Mexican officials say increased border security has thwarted smugglers
who had succeeded for years at beating the system.

Migrants also say they feel Americans are increasingly hostile toward
immigrants.

"It's the discrimination," said George Guevara, 28, who was deported to Tijuana
last month after living in the U.S. for 18 years. "It's making people step back.
It's just too much of a risk. It's better to be out here."

Guevara, who speaks perfect English and has only distant memories of Mexico, was
living at a Tijuana migrant shelter filled with deportees, many of whom are
Mexican-born but find themselves in a country that is foreign to them.

While some migrants try to set up new lives, others are caught between two
worlds. Salvador Perez still has a pregnant wife and three small children in
Bakersfield, Calif., where he worked on a pistachio ranch before he was
deported. He's tried to cross the mountains near Tecate three times this summer
to get back to them, but failed each time.

"I want to try again, but I'm scared something will happen," Perez said.

The biggest drop in Border Patrol detentions, a 68 percent decrease, was in the
remote, heat-seared desert surrounding Yuma, Ariz., once popular with smugglers.
Border Patrol spokesman Jeremy Chappell credits the additional troops and
tougher security.

"Where an alien before was able to sneak across, now he has the National Guard
watching him," Chappell said.

The only area that has seen an increase - 1.5 percent - is the San Diego sector,
which runs along the California border and includes the harsh, roadless desert
surrounding Tecate. The Border Patrol has responded with helicopters and
increased intelligence from detained migrants.

Deportations also are up for illegal immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for
years. Some are caught for minor infractions like a burned-out headlight. Others
are rounded up in workplace raids that the Bush administration has vowed to
intensify.

The new measures announced Friday will force employers to fire anyone who cannot
prove their Social Security numbers are legitimate.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A man waits to see a doctor as others eat dinner in a shelter for
migrants in Tijuana, Mexico, last month. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Probe of workers angers ACLU Union suspicions o Local carpenters believed some
construction site employees were illegal immigrants. At issue, privacy o
O'Fallon, Mo., should not have let union see workers' Social Security numbers,
group says.

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, MO.


The local chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union sharply criticized city
officials Wednesday for releasing the Social Security numbers of workers at an
affordable-housing project last month.

Anthony Rothert, legal director for the ACLU of Eastern Missouri, said O'Fallon
officials broke the federal Privacy Act by releasing the numbers in response to
a public information request made by the local carpenters union.

Under federal law, the city should also be barred from requiring any employer to
turn over I-9 forms or use them as the basis of any investigation, he said. The
forms authorize worker eligibility.

City officials and the union allege that subcontractors are using illegal
immigrant labor on the project.

Rothert notified the city by letter Monday of the ACLU's concerns and requested
a year's worth of public documents pertaining to public record requests
involving Social Security numbers.

O'Fallon Mayor Donna Morrow called the ACLU's motives "purely political" and
said it was another indication of how cities and local residents are being
hamstrung in their struggling efforts to curtail illegal labor in their
neighborhoods.

"When do the local people that are affected by people coming in and not paying
taxes and everything else - when do they get to have a say in this?" she asked.

City Administrator Robert Lowery, who first advised that the union seek the
documents under the Freedom of Information Act, could not be reached for
comment. In a prior interview, Lowery said the city had been given the OK to
release the documents by its attorney. City Attorney Kevin O'Keefe declined to
comment Wednesday.

Last month, the city provided members of the Carpenters District Council of
Greater St. Louis and Vicinity with 36 of the I-9 eligibility forms for
subcontractors working at Southernside, an affordable-housing construction site.
The developer of the project, Hennessey Development Inc. of Clayton, is using
$13 million in state and federal tax credits over 10 years and $13.5 million in
tax-exempt bonds approved by a county agency for the project.

At the time, Lowery said he had advised members of the carpenters union to
formally request the documents after the union complained of suspicious labor
activity at the site. The union has been picketing there since spring.

The union, also on Lowery's advice, then hired a private detective to research
the Social Security numbers contained on the forms. Tim Flora of Mid-West
Protective Services Inc. concluded that the majority of the numbers were
fraudulent.

City officials then used the information to press the state attorney general's
office and the St. Charles County prosecutor's office to undertake a joint
investigation of the site on Weldon Spring Road, just west of Highway K.

Lowery said he did not want O'Fallon's police department to investigate because
the city would run the risk of being accused of racially profiling the workers,
who are mostly Hispanic.

The ensuing investigation of Hennessey Development and subcontractors H & H
Drywall of Tulsa, Okla., and Openlander Siding of Lake Saint Louis has yet to be
resolved.

On Tuesday, county prosecutor Jack Banas' office issued subpoenas to all three
of them, O'Fallon Police Chief Jerry Schulte said. Banas declined to comment on
a running investigation.

Peter Hennessey, president of Hennessey Development, declined to comment on the
ACLU involvement. Previously, he said the subcontractors had provided all
necessary employment information and that the situation was out of his hands.

He also accused O'Fallon of siding with the union because his workers are
nonunion and his firm is using out-of-state workers to build the 220-unit
complex. An official with Openlander said the employees have all the proper
documentation. Mike Hill, president of H & H Drywall, could not be reached for
comment.

Rothert said the ACLU is also concerned that O'Fallon and other public bodies
such as the Missouri Housing Development Commission have enacted rules requiring
developers receiving public support on projects to provide I-9 forms to prove
the legality of their workers and subcontractors.

"The law is clear that this is not an appropriate use of an I-9 form," added
Omar Jadwat, a staff attorney with the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project based
in Washington.

O'Fallon and the housing commission set up rules granting them the right to see
the I-9 documents after illegal subcontractors were discovered last year at
O'Fallon Lakes, another affordable-housing project also supported by millions of
dollars in state and federal tax credits and tax-exempt bonds.

The ACLU's move locally comes on the heels of new federal employment rules last
week requiring employers to fire workers whose Social Security numbers fail to
match the national database and who cannot provide proof of their legitimacy.
The rules are designed to give greater teeth to labor law enforcement and stem
the flow of illegal labor in the country.

Jadwat said the ACLU's concern about O'Fallon is in keeping with the
organization's opinion that using employee Social Security numbers to enforce
immigration laws opens the door to mistakes and other issues that could infringe
on employment rights. He said the Social Security registry is notoriously
inaccurate.

"It's a clearly unwise kind of rule," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Developer faces panel over labor allegation State commission vows to force
developers to verify that workers are in the country legally.

BYLINE: By Matthew Franck POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


The developer of a St. Charles County housing project faced the wrath of a state
commission Friday for allegedly using illegal immigrants on a project that's
subsidized by federal and state tax credits.

By the time the grilling was over, members of the Missouri Housing Development
Commission vowed to swiftly put in place new rules demanding that developers
verify that workers are not in the country illegally.

But it's unclear exactly what new regulations the commission might enforce.
Meanwhile, the developer accused of wrongdoing sternly told the commission that
he has followed all the rules.

On the hot seat was Pete Hennessey, of Hennessey Development Inc. of Clayton.
The company's $20 million Southernside Apartment Complex project in O'Fallon,
Mo., has come under fire for allegedly hiring a subcontractor with illegal
immigrant laborers.

None of the allegations has been proved, and Hennessey has repeatedly insisted
he is free of any wrongdoing.

The construction project is partly funded by more than $13 million in state and
federal tax credits over 10 years, administered by the housing commission.

On Friday, Hennessey told the commission that he has met all of the tax credit's
requirements as it concerns gathering immigration documents. He said when
allegations surfaced in June, he also supplied information to federal officials.

"I've done everything I can," he said, adding that if he knew illegal immigrants
were working on the project "I'd kick them off the site."

But some members of the commission challenged Hennessey. At a minimum, they say,
he failed to take any steps to verify documents. And one official accused the
developer of knowingly having illegal immigrants on the project.

"Your problem is you know you have illegal workers on that site," said Doug
Gaston, deputy to Treasurer Sarah Steelman, who sits on the commission.

Hennessey said he supplied immigration documents to the commission and assumed
they were verifying their validity.

Gaston said that verification apparently did not take place. But he said in an
interview that developers, not the state commission, have the primary
responsibility to ensure workers are legal.

Ed Martin, chief of staff to Gov. Matt Blunt, told the commission that the
incident illustrates the need for more rigorous standards for developers who
seek state tax credits. If developers fail to take proper steps, sanctions could
include a lifetime ban from receiving credits, Martin said.

On Friday, Steelman called on Hennessey not only to get rid of any undocumented
workers but to hire only local labor.

Richard Baalmann Sr., the commission's chairman, said he does not want the
controversy to threaten the completion of the O'Fallon project.

"I don't think any of us want to kill the deal," he said.

But he and other members of the commission agreed to form a task force to
develop new rules immediately.

While members of the group have not yet been named, O'Fallon Mayor Donna Morrow
told the commission she would like to be included.

The illegal worker allegations aren't new to O'Fallon. Last year, a similar
tax-subsidized project came under scrutiny for labor practices.

"I will not tolerate this happening a third time in O'Fallon," Morrow said.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Missouri's immigration crackdown draws fire 'This is an open door to racial
profiling,' says Jorge Riopedre of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

BYLINE: By Christopher Leonard The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


Hispanic advocates criticized Gov. Matt Blunt's new crackdown on illegal
immigration Thursday, just hours before Blunt announced the effort had yielded
its first arrest and deportation proceedings of an undocumented resident.

Hispanic business owners and professionals worry the new statewide initiative
will target them for immigration checks just because of their ethnicity, said
Jorge Riopedre, secretary of the St. Louis-area Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

"This is an open door to racial profiling," Riopedre said. "They're not talking
about immigrants - they're talking about Hispanics."

Blunt's spokeswoman Jessica Robinson disputed that assessment.

"The only people affected by this are ones who broke the law, violated the
border and have no legal right to be in the United States," she said.

Blunt announced a two-pronged crackdown in illegal immigration this week. On
Monday, he directed Missouri Highway Patrol agents to check the immigration
status of every person they incarcerate. On Tuesday, he directed the Missouri
Department of Economic Development to tighten oversight of contractors that
receive state tax breaks or funding.

The initiative earned both applause and condemnation from business groups in St.
Louis.

The Carpenter's District of Greater St. Louis supported the measure, claiming
that undocumented workers bring down the wages of its unionized members.

"They are undermining my whole community," said union secretary-treasurer Terry
Nelson. He said he would go from excited to "ecstatic" about Blunt's initiative
when the state began revoking tax credits from contractors who employ illegal
immigrants.

Riopedre emphasized that the Hispanic chamber does not support illegal
immigration.

But he said the new law could foster an atmosphere of hostility toward Hispanic
residents in the state. He is already fielding worried calls from the group's
102 members, which range from mom-and-pop stores to some of the area's biggest
companies, like Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc. and Monsanto Co.

Blunt's directive will only impact contractors who receive state tax credits or
other financial incentives.

Those contractors must already provide paperwork ensuring their workers are
employed legally. But now, the Missouri economic development department will
randomly audit that paperwork and perform surprise visits to work sites to
ensure all employees have proper documentation.

On the law enforcement side, Blunt is seeking to give state authorities the
power to enforce immigration law, which is currently the sole domain of federal
agencies.

That directive could lead to litigation if residents are wrongfully detained,
said Ricardo Meza, regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund.

"I think that it's unfortunate that the governor ... is trying to do the same
thing that many local communities have tried to do around the country, which is
take immigration reform into their own hands," Meza said. Many of those efforts
have gotten tied up in court.

Patrol spokesman Capt. Tim Hull said 25 state law enforcement agents will get
training from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency that will
essentially deputize the state agents as federal immigration officers.

Twenty of the agents are from the patrol, while four are from the Missouri Water
Patrol and one is from the Capitol Police.

Currently, patrol agents can only check the ICE databases to see if someone they
arrest is an illegal immigrant, Hull said. If that's the case, one of the
state's 48 ICE agents must get custody of the suspect and present them to a
judge for a deportation hearing, Hull said.

After they are trained, patrol agents will be able to present the suspect to a
judge for deportation themselves, Hull said.

Patrol agents helped arrest two men Tuesday night for assault in Camden County,
according to a statement from Blunt's office.

After accessing the ICE database, agents determined that Jose Delacruz of Mexico
was an illegal immigrant, and he is in custody and awaiting deportation,
according to the statement.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Illegal immigrant fights children's deportation

BYLINE: By Elizabeth White THE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: SAN ANGELO, Texas -


A Mexican family living illegally in Texas may be split up by immigration
officials, apparently because of a routine delay in paperwork that, if
completed, could allow the entire family to stay in the United States.

The story of Rocio Godinez's family provides a glimpse into the anguish of
thousands of immigrants in similar straits. But their case is also different
because the mother who first came to authorities' attention is not facing
deportation. Her children are.

Godinez, 32, and her four oldest children came to the United States in the late
1990s and overstayed their tourist visas. The children, who are now 10 to 18
years old, could be sent back to Mexico as early as this week to a home they
don't remember, to live with relatives who can't afford to take them in.

Godinez's family lives in San Angelo, as do her parents, who are legal U.S.
residents. Her fifth child, Brisa, was born a U.S. citizen in 1999.

In 2001, Godinez's father petitioned for her to stay in the United States with
her children. But because of a limited number of visas, the State Department has
not yet reviewed the Godinez case, said Gregory Ball, chief counsel for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San Antonio.

The family lived freely in the United States until Godinez was stopped in 2005
for speeding in San Angelo. Police referred her to the Border Patrol, and
Godinez told them about her children. Then the deportation proceedings began.

"It's very difficult," Godinez said in Spanish from the living room of the
family's run-down home. "I don't have a choice. I can't go back - I can't stay."

Supporters of strict immigration enforcement say Godinez brought the problems on
herself.

Advocates for illegal immigrants "always want to make it everybody else's
responsibility for the consequences of one or more family members' decision to
break the law," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

Godinez, a single mother, doesn't know what she will do if authorities deport
the four children - Jorge, 18; Rocio Iveth, 16; Manuel, 12; and Uriel, 10. Her
eldest child has a wife and child who are both U.S. citizens.

The children's lawyer, Jonathan D. Ryan, said he doesn't know why Godinez is
being spared deportation. "That's the strangeness of this case," Ryan said. "Why
not nobody or why not everybody?"

Ball, of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, said that he did not
have any information on Godinez, but he confirmed that the four children are in
removal proceedings. Agency officials declined to discuss the case further.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hispanics want Blunt aide fired for remark

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF Jo Mannies
of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1159 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


'BUNCH OF MEXICANS' Chief of staff stirs anger with comment at meeting about
illegal immigration.

---

Hispanic-American leaders called Monday on Gov. Matt Blunt to fire his chief of
staff for a remark that they said was racist and demeaning to immigrants.

Chief of staff Ed Martin made the comment Aug. 17 at a meeting of the Missouri
Housing Development Commission, saying that if "there's a bunch of Mexicans" on
a work site, some are probably illegal immigrant laborers.

Blunt stood firmly behind Martin, saying his aide did not mean to offend anyone
and was showing the administration's tough stance on hiring illegal workers.

"Mr. Martin was responding to a developer he thought was making excuses," Blunt
said Monday at a news conference in St. Louis.

Hispanic leaders, representing community and labor groups in Kansas City, said
Martin's comment showed a "xenophobic mentality" that results in racial
profiling.

Their criticism followed the resignation last week of a state housing

official, who said Martin's remark had degraded his Mexican heritage. Jim
Torres, the commission's legislative liaison, quit Friday after sending a terse
letter to Blunt criticizing Martin's "table-thumping tirade."

The governor said it should be noted that the firestorm over Martin's comments
is coming while the administration has "a very aggressive enforcement under way"
against illegal immigrants.

On Aug. 28, Blunt ordered random state inspections of construction sites to look
for illegal immigrant workers and routine checks of the residency status of
people arrested by the Missouri Highway Patrol.

The governor's directive has turned up 33 cases involving illegal immigrants in
the past two weeks, said a Highway Patrol spokesman. The detainees either face
mandatory deportation or are being picked up by federal immigration officials,
said patrol Capt. Tim Hull.

The legality of that policy drew questions Monday from a St. Louis-based
coalition of immigrant advocates, which held a conference call with the media.
The coalition, called the Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates, said it has
asked for data on the immigration checks.

The goal is to see whether everyone who is stopped by the patrol is being asked
for proof of citizenship "or if it's just happening to some people" based on
their looks or their names, said Joan Suarez, the coalition's chairwoman.

The uproar over Martin's comments began surfacing on the Internet late last week
in Kansas City blogs.

A lawyer known for his combative and outspoken style, Martin joined Blunt's team
in August 2006 after a stint as chairman of the St. Louis Election Board.

The incident in question happened at a meeting in Jefferson City, when the
Missouri Housing Development Commission grilled the lawyer for a St. Charles
County housing project.

Pete Hennessey, of Hennessey Development of Clayton, has come under fire for
allegedly hiring a subcontractor with illegal immigrant workers. Hennessey has
insisted he is free of any wrongdoing.

His lawyer, David Lang, was addressing the commission. Lang said Hennessey had
been "proactive" in checking employees' immigration status. Lang then mentioned
that one federal database that employers use "is only a couple weeks old. So
this isn't something he would have been able to ..."

That's when Martin interrupted, telling Lang not to talk about the database's
availability.

"I'll tell you what's available, is every frigging developer can figure out who
is illegal, and when he says - like he told them - there's a bunch of Mexicans
out there, I guess some of them are probably not legal," Martin said.

Pete Ramsel, executive director of the Housing Development Commission, said he
didn't hear Martin make the remark. Later, when he reviewed the transcript,
Ramsel said he found nothing offensive because Martin was simply quoting a
statement a developer had made at a previous meeting.

That was not the way Torres saw it.

Torres was sitting directly across the table from Martin. In a letter to Blunt
dated Sept. 5, Torres said he was deeply offended by Martin's remark.

"I am the proud grandson of Mexican immigrants who came to this country to
provide a better life for their family and unlimited opportunities for their
grandchildren and great-grandchildren," Torres wrote to Blunt. He said his
family served the country during World War II and the Korean War. He asked that
Martin issue a public apology.

Torres resigned Friday, effective Sept. 20. He is on leave and could not be
reached on Monday.

His boss, Ramsel, said he could not comment on why Torres left because it was a
personnel matter. Ramsel said he had apologized to the governor's office for
Torres' criticism of Martin.

Jessica Robinson, a spokeswoman for Blunt, said the governor did not ask for
Torres' resignation. Martin could not be reached Monday.

Rep. Mike Talboy, D-Kansas City, participated in Monday's news conference of
Hispanic leaders in Kansas City. He said in an interview afterward that when he
heard of Martin's comments, he "felt offended for my grandfather, who came over
when he was 33 from Bogotá, Colombia, and tried to make a better life for
himself."

Blunt announced his crackdown on illegal immigrants late last month.

"Illegal immigrants are openly breaking our laws," Blunt said at a news
conference Aug. 28 at O'Fallon City Hall. "Because Washington has failed to deal
with this issue, states must do even more."

Talboy said Blunt is using the immigration issue for political gain to rev up
his conservative base. Top Republicans around the country also are calling for
tougher policies against illegal immigrants. Blunt has been on national
television to promote his directives.

Tony Rothert, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Eastern
Missouri, called the governor's directives "a mean-spirited attempt to sow
additional fear in the immigrant community and appease the anti-immigrant
sentiment. ..."

---

Martin's remark

Here's what Martin said, according to a transcript of the Missouri Housing
Development Commission's Aug. 17 meeting. Martin was responding to an attorney's
statement that a federal database had only recently become available to check
workers' immigration status.

"You are welcome to come in and speak to us because this is a public body, but
you are not welcome to come in and start telling us about the availability. Make
your point for your client, don't start in with what's available and what's not
available. I'll tell you what's available, is every frigging developer can
figure out who is illegal, and when he says - like he told them - there's a
bunch of Mexicans out there, I guess some of them are probably not legal.
Address your question, not start in on what's available and what's not and what
should be talked about and not. If you want to do that, we can do that, too. But
it's going to be a lot longer and not very pleasant."

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Should Martin be fired for his remarks? Talk about it in
Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Martin Gets backing of governor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hispanic work crew under scrutiny Missouri Highway Patrol says it got a tip that
some could be in U.S. illegally.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: HANNIBAL, MO.


The Missouri Highway Patrol is investigating whether nearly two dozen Hispanic
men from Arkansas working on a construction project here are illegal immigrants,
the patrol said Wednesday.

Working on a tip, patrol officers went Wednesday morning to Continental Cement
in Hannibal. None of the approximately 20 workers was arrested or jailed, and
all were allowed to continue working while patrol officials checked their names
with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, patrol Lt. Nelson
Elfrink said.

"We got information that there were possibly illegal immigrants working there,"
Elfrink said. "The contractor voluntarily allowed us to identify those people.
If it comes back they're illegal, we'll turn it over to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement."

The workers are with Schueck Steel of Little Rock, Ark. The company did not
return a phone call seeking comment.

They are working in Hannibal to help build a $150 million kiln.

Continental Cement Vice President Tom Beck said he was surprised at the patrol's
actions because the construction project was monitored by federal regulators
such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

"We have had routine inspections throughout the construction project, and all
the documents are in order, so we're puzzled by this," Beck said. He declined
further comment until he learned more about the event.

Elfrink did not say who provided the tip or why it was believed the workers were
in the United States illegally. The Quincy Herald-Whig reported that the tip had
come from a local legislator, whom it did not identify. Rep. Rachel Bringer,
D-Palmyra, said she was not the source. Sen. Wes Shoemyer, D-Clarence, did not
return a phone call seeking comment.

Late last month, Gov. Matt Blunt announced a two-pronged crackdown on illegal
immigrants. Blunt, a Republican, directed the Highway Patrol to check the
immigration status of every person the patrol incarcerates, and he directed the
Department of Economic Development to tighten oversight of contractors that
receive state tax breaks or funding.

Hispanic advocates say the crackdown will lead to racial profiling and could
foster an atmosphere of hostility.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 21, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Federal priorities different, police say Immigration officials aren't always
responsive to the needs of local authorities, they find.

BYLINE: By Patrick M. O'Connell ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Bill Bryan of the
Post-Dispatch and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 793 words


Gov. Matt Blunt urged police agencies in Missouri on Thursday to work better
with federal immigration officers in cracking down on illegal immigration.

But police officers here said in response that they lack the ability to quickly
check a person's immigration status. The result: situations such as that of
Sergio Lopez, who in July was sent on his way with only a ticket after police
said he caused a traffic accident in south St. Louis. On Tuesday, police said
Lopez ran an SUV into some outdoor diners in Clayton, injuring three. Lopez, an
illegal immigrant, could have been detained after the July accident had his
immigration status been determined.

A driver without a license, registration or insurance cannot be detained simply
because he or she lacks identification, police here said.

Officers routinely contact Immigration and Customs Enforcement when the
immigration status of a motorist is in question, but responses from ICE can take
hours, police officers said. And even if the motorist is determined to be in the
country illegally, there is no guarantee that ICE is interested in starting
detention or deportation procedures.

"This is a constant problem," said Maplewood Police Chief James White, whose
department often comes in contact with motorists who cannot provide valid U.S.
identification. ICE doesn't "have the time and the manpower to deal with only a
few illegals."

White said his department towed the cars of drivers who lack valid licenses,
plates or registrations, and book and fingerprint the drivers. But after the
officers issue citations, the drivers are free to go.

A Maplewood officer pulled over a truck with a dozen illegal immigrants inside
about a year ago, and the department contacted ICE. The official who answered,
White said, laughed and responded, "Call back when you have 50."

ICE spokesman Carl Rusnok emphasized that his organization deported 197,000
illegal immigrants nationwide in fiscal year 2006, and must prioritize based on
those people who pose the biggest threat to the safety of the United States.

"We work very, very closely with local law enforcement agencies," Rusnok said.
"Our primary concern is the same goal of local agencies, and that is to help
make communities safer, and the best way to do that is to go after illegal
aliens with criminal convictions."

Blunt announced Thursday that he would seek money that would allow officers from
local police departments to train to become federally deputized agents capable
of initiating immigration procedures.

"Ideally this is a federal issue, but Washington has failed," Blunt said in an
interview in St. Louis.

Last month, Blunt ordered the Highway Patrol to check the immigration status of
everyone it incarcerated - regardless of their name or ethnicity.

Critics say the law has already led to racial profiling of Hispanics.

Jorge Riopedre, secretary of the St. Louis-area Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
said Hispanic business owner Luis Ortiz was stopped by a patrol agent while
driving home from Steelville on Labor Day weekend.

The agent asked to see the driver's license of everyone in the car with Ortiz,
Riopedre said.

"It is our opinion that the reason the patrol agent asked for everyone's license
was because they are Hispanic," Riopedre said. "You spread that out to every
municipality and every police officer around, let me tell you, in my opinion
there is trouble brewing."

Plans already are in place to have ICE train and deputize about 20 Highway
Patrol officers, four water patrol officers and a Capitol officer in an effort
to increase the state's ability to check for and detain illegal immigrants.

St. Charles took the first step last week toward getting trained by federal
immigration officials, but several St. Louis area police department officials,
including St. Louis County and Florissant, said that Thursday was the first time
they had heard of the governor's proposals.

In the meantime, police officers say their ability to identify illegal
immigrants remains limited.

"The money and the manpower is not there to enforce each illegal pulled over,"
said St. Louis County police spokeswoman Tracy Panus. "It's just not the
reality. We don't have many options."

On July 26, Lopez, 23, was ticketed for his involvement in an accident on South
Kingshighway, but the St. Louis police report makes no mention about Lopez's
immigration status and does not indicate that ICE had been contacted.

On Tuesday, Lopez said he was blinded by light when he drove his SUV into the
outdoor eating area of the Il Vicino restaurant. Lopez again was issued traffic
citations, and after police contacted ICE, is now is in the custody of
immigration officials.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What do you think of Blunt's new initiative? Talk about it
in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 21, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrant in crash had been in U.S. 4 years

BYLINE: By Jeremy Kohler ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Greg Cancelada of the
Post-Dispatch contributed to this report

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


News that an illegal immigrant was at the wheel of the vehicle that crashed into
three restaurant patrons Tuesday had many St. Louisans asking: What was he doing
here?

The answer is that Sergio Lopez has been here illegally for about four years,
working and sending money home to support his wife and two daughters, ages 3 and
5, said a cousin who lives in St. Louis and said he is a legal resident.

It was simple math for Lopez, 23, who would have been making about $15 per week
as a farm laborer in his home city of Maravatio, about three hours northwest of
Mexico City, said his cousin, Edgar Lopez, 27.

In St. Louis, Sergio Lopez made as much as $500 per week washing dishes and
doing other jobs at restaurants that included Liluma in the Central West End and
Cafe Napoli in Clayton. He typically sent $200-$300 per week home to his wife,
Beatriz, said his cousin.

Sergio Lopez planned to either return to Mexico within two years or save enough
to have his family join him here illegally, his cousin said. He'd already looked
into the cost of having a professional smuggle his daughters here: roughly
$2,000 per child.

Sergio Lopez has crossed the U.S. border into Arizona on foot at least twice,
making a 24-hour trek through the desert each time, Edgar Lopez said.

On Tuesday, Sergio Lopez told Clayton police he was temporarily blinded by a
bright light as he attempted to make a left turn from westbound Maryland Avenue
onto southbound Central Avenue. Officials said he did not explain whether it was
a sun reflection or something else. His Ford Expedition crashed into the sunken
eating area of Il Vicino, pinning two people beneath it and injuring a third.

Clayton Police Chief Thomas Byrne said Sergio Lopez had been trying to find a
job in Clayton and did not appear to have been under the influence of alcohol or
speeding. Clayton officers cited him for driving without a license and without
proof of insurance and for making an improper turn.

Sergio Lopez is being held at the St. Louis County Justice Center in Clayton on
a federal detainment order issued by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Through the jail, he declined to be interviewed. Though he is booked as simply
Sergio Lopez, his full name is Sergio Lopez Luna. People in Spanish-speaking
countries typically use names that incorporate their mother's maiden name.

Sergio Lopez bought his SUV about 1 1/2 years ago from Guillermo Lopez, another
cousin living in the St. Louis area, said Edgar Lopez. It was a part of his
"American dream," his cousin said. He still owed the cousin about $3,000.

"He planned to drive that truck back to Mexico," said Edgar Lopez, interviewed
at his job as a cook at Dominic's Restaurant in the Hill neighborhood.

St. Louis is a U.S. outpost for Lopez's extended family on his mother's side.
Some are here legally and some not. Other family members live in Georgia and
Texas, but St. Louis is a meeting place at holidays. Edgar Lopez said more
family members live in the United States than in their hometown.

Lopez's father and brother each arrived just this year and are working at St.
Louis-area restaurants. They could not be reached Thursday.

Reached in Mexico, Sergio Lopez's mother, Guadalupe Luna, was unaware that her
son had been incarcerated.

Typically, he calls the family in Maravatio once a week. But his mother and
other family members hadn't heard from him since the previous week.

"I don't know anything about this," she said in a telephone interview.

Luna was relieved that no one in the accident suffered life-threatening
injuries. And she expressed concern about how the family would live without
Sergio Lopez's income.

"That is going to make the (family's) situation more difficult," she said.

Edgar Lopez said his cousin lived in constant fear that he would be discovered
and deported to Mexico. Recently, while driving on an interstate, his cousin was
overcome by fear at the sound of police sirens and came to a stop in the middle
of traffic, he said.

"He said, 'They're coming for me,'" recalled Edgar Lopez.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 336 words


SANTA MONICA, CALIF.

Giuliani gets backing of former Gov. Wilson

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani accepted the endorsement Thursday of former
California Gov. Pete Wilson.

Giuliani said he and Wilson are in general agreement that illegal immigration
needs to be stopped at the border by the federal government.

In 1994, Wilson supported a California ballot initiative that would have barred
illegal immigrants from receiving some basic government services, including
public education. The proposition was voted into law but was overturned in
federal court; in 1999, then-Gov. Gray Davis allowed the appeal to die.

RENO, NEV.

U.S. immigration agents raid 11 McDonald's

Federal agents raided 11 McDonald's restaurants in northern Nevada and made
dozens of arrests Thursday as part of an investigation into illegal immigration.

Agents for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement made at least 56 arrests in
Reno, Sparks and Fernley after raids at the restaurants and a franchise
corporate headquarters in Reno, agency spokesman Richard Rocha said.

A spokeswoman for McDonald's Corp., based in Oak Brook, Ill., said only, "This
is a local situation with a local operator."

CHICAGO

Body found near forest may be missing woman

The badly decomposed body of a woman was found Thursday in an area of Calumet
City, Ill., where police have been searching for Nailah Franklin.

Patrol officers found an unclothed body behind several vacant businesses near
the Wentworth Woods Forest Preserve.

Franklin, 28, was reported missing Sept. 19 after failing to show up for a
business meeting. Her car was found abandoned in Hammond, Ind., on Saturday.

BAKERSFIELD, CALIF.

Ex-school vice principal is sentenced to death

A former elementary school vice principal was sentenced to death Thursday for
the murders of his wife, their three small children and his mother-in-law.

Vincent Brothers, 45, was convicted in May of five counts of first-degree murder
for the deaths in July 2003. Superior Court Judge Michael Bush handed down the
sentence Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Churches vow to shelter illegal immigrants

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


Several churches in the Kansas City area are offering sanctuary to illegal
immigrants facing deportation if they have American-born children, clean
criminal records and have worked for years in the United States.

The churches are part of the New Sanctuary Movement, through which churches
nationwide have let illegal immigrants live on their properties in the hope that
immigration officials won't raid churches to make arrests.

Tuesday night, about 100 people gathered near a billboard on Interstate 70 to
announce the New Sanctuary Movement Coalition of Greater Kansas City.

"It is the very soul of our nation that is at stake" in how we treat families in
which one or both parents are illegal immigrants but the children are American
citizens, said the Rev. Rick Behrens of Grandview Park Presbyterian Church. "We
are losing our soul as we separate children from parents."

None of the Kansas City churches has sheltered an illegal immigrant yet.

The churches say providing shelter isn't against the law because church members
wouldn't interfere with agents coming onto church property.

But Kris Kobach, a University of Missouri-Kansas City law professor and chairman
of the Kansas Republican Party, said it was a violation of federal law to
knowingly harbor an illegal immigrant.

"There are many points of view about the role of churches in our society and how
much civic engagement there should be," said Kobach, of Kansas City, Kan. "But I
think one area that until very recently has been pretty clear is, churches
shouldn't themselves violate federal law."

Last month, immigration agents arrested Elvira Arellano, an illegal immigrant,
after she left a church in Chicago where she had lived for about a year after
being scheduled to be deported.

Agents arrested her in Los Angeles with her American-born son after the two
traveled there to participate in a pro-immigration rally.

Arellano was sent to Mexico, while her son stayed in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants bigger threat to nature than border fence, Chertoff says

BYLINE: By Eileen Sullivan THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on Monday defended the construction
of a fence along the Southwest border, saying it's actually better for the
environment than what happens when people illegally cross the U.S.-Mexico line.

"Illegal migrants really degrade the environment. I've seen pictures of human
waste, garbage, discarded bottles and other human artifact in pristine areas,"
Chertoff said in a telephone interview with the Associated Press. "And believe
me, that is the worst thing you can do to the environment."

To curb illegal immigration, the U.S. government plans to complete 670 miles of
fencing on the Southwest border by the end of next year. But this has brought
complaints that the fence and barriers are harmful to the environment.

Chertoff said the department exceeded its goal to complete 150 miles of fencing
along the Mexican border by the end of the 2007 fiscal year, which was Sunday.

Wildlife enthusiasts fear that the natural wonders of the Rio Grande Valley in
Texas could be spoiled by fences and barriers and could harm some animals by
cutting them off from the only source of fresh water.

Wild cats, reptiles and at least 500 species of birds attract visitors from
around the world who bring the impoverished region $150 million a year.

The Homeland Security agency has said that such environmental concerns will be
taken into account as the fence construction proceeds.

'FENCE' GLITCH

Last month, Chertoff said there was a glitch in a "virtual fence" - a 28-mile
stretch of surveillance technologies near the border southwest of Tucson - and
he would not pay the contractor, Boeing Co., until that was resolved. The
technologies were not all working together so that images caught on radar could
be sent to a Border Patrol agent monitoring the system, Chertoff said Monday.

But he also said the problem "appears to be getting fixed" and Chertoff said the
program will undergo its final testing phase over the next 30 days.

"I've seen this kind of system work in other settings, so it's not a novel or a
technologically difficult task," the secretary said Monday. "But because it is
complicated, and because it's a demanding environment, we just weren't
comfortable that we were happy with the way it was working."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff says work on the border
fence has exceeded its goal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration issues

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 395 words


Get serious in this fight

Doesn't it make you shake your head when you go to the local hardware store and
the signs are in Spanish and English? Or when federal, state and local
governments give money to the Economic Development Council to develop local
projects and projects are built by out-of-state contractors who hire illegal
immigrants? Or when the American Civil Liberties Union files a complaint on
behalf of those illegal immigrants because they have protested that their rights
have been violated?

Laws are meant to benefit the majority of citizens, which is what makes a
civilized society. Yet Democrats and Republicans are playing politics with
American heritage and values. Politicians are too busy playing politics or
considering their next election rather than doing what is best for this country.
Our politicians are selling us out.

We are losing our American heritage. We are at war within our own country
without a shot being fired.

In our upcoming elections, don't be fooled by "hot-button" issues used to entice
us; rather, listen for those leaders who are willing to do something about the
issues that truly affect each and every one of us.

Joe Brazil | St. Charles County County Councilman, District 2

Denying opportunity

Regarding "Major review for virtual fence" (Sept. 26): The issue of illegal
immigrants is a major political and moral issue today. Yet press coverage is
less than substantial and doesn't give the public a correct view on the measures
taken to thwart illegal border crossings.

I am a vigilant listener to talk radio and scan newspapers occasionally. Yet
this story was the first I heard of radar cover and Boeing's role in its
development.

I understand the need to control the flow of unknown refugees and immigrants,
and that the job market seems to be decreasing. Yet I can't help but think about
the way life must be in Latin American nations. Americans seem to think that
since many of us live in comfortable homes that the rest of the world is the
same. It is not. That creates a moral and ethical problem when returning the
so-called illegals found in the United States. Humans are human, no matter what
race or cultural background. For our government to deny opportunity based on
where these people were born seems wrong.

Before you judge someone, look at who he is and what he did to get to have an
opportunity.

Andrew Donahue | Eureka

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS FROM READERS YOUR VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

A Republican in la casa Immigration politics hit home with Tim Flook, the only
Mexican-American in the Missouri House.

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1262 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


In immigration politics, where getting rid of illegal workers is the rallying
cry, Rep. Tim Flook has a unique vantage point.

As the only Mexican-American member of the House, he knows the human side of the
issue. As a Republican in the GOP-controlled body, he has a seat in closed
caucus meetings where legislative strategy is mapped.

Flook walks a tightrope, sharing his party's desire to enforce the law but
striving to avoid sweeping moves that he says could lead to "open season on
Hispanics."

He uses his skills as a lawyer to eke out small victories

aimed at narrowing the scope of anti-immigration bills and avoiding unintended
consequences.

"It's such an emotional issue," said Flook, who represents a suburban Kansas
City district. "So many people want their pound of flesh. I don't want to see
some reactionary response that perhaps harms all of us."

His search for middle ground stands out in the current political atmosphere,
where Gov. Matt Blunt, a Republican, and his Democratic challenger, Attorney
General Jay Nixon, seem to be competing to be viewed as the toughest on illegal
immigration.

Because he has an Anglo father and surname, Flook's heritage isn't necessarily
apparent to those who don't know him.

His maternal grandparents fled the Mexican Revolution in the early 1900s and
raised their family of 12, including Flook's mother, in a barrio in a Kansas
railroad town.

The Santa Fe Railroad was recruiting Mexican laborers for backbreaking,
$2.50-an-hour jobs, according to a paper by Robert Oppenheimer, a former faculty
member at the University of Kansas.

The family lived in Wellington, Kan., a segregated town where some businesses
posted signs: "No Mexicans allowed." Flook's mother, Teresa Jimenez Flook, said
she couldn't swim in the city pool, drink a soda at the town drugstore or sit on
the main floor at the movie theater, but she says that didn't bother her.

"We had our own little church," she said. "We had more fun than they did. We
knew our boundaries."

Flook's grandfather took English classes and became a U.S. citizen. His
grandmother had a permanent residency visa.

Flook's mother picked up English in public school and became a hairdresser. She
married his father, who coached baseball at William Jewell College in Liberty,
on the outskirts of Kansas City. The couple is now divorced but reared three
sons in a split-level house in the college town.

While Flook often visited his Mexican uncles, aunts and cousins, his heritage
wasn't a big part of his identity as a youth.

"Only my friends knew I was half-Mexican," he said.

In fact, it wasn't until he finished law school that he decided he wanted to
master Spanish. He took an immersion course in Mexico. Later, he led the
Hispanic Bar Association of Greater Kansas City.

His decision to become a "Reagan Republican" reflected his Mexican heritage,
Flook said. His relatives never depended on the government for anything. They
have "this real strong sense of self-sufficiency."

"I've always said I am Republican because I am Hispanic," he said.

Still, his Hispanic ties and Republican Party loyalties make for a precarious
balancing act.

Joan Suarez, who lobbies for a St. Louis-based immigrant rights coalition,
faults Flook for not teaming up with Democrats to try to block anti-immigration
bills in committee. She said that while his "heart's in the right place," fellow
Republicans "make him play ball."

For example, he strongly opposed a constitutional amendment that would make
English the language at all official proceedings. Flook was the only Republican
to vote "no" on the House floor. He called the measure unnecessary.

But he didn't vote on the bill in committee, where Republicans hold a 5-3
majority. A tie vote would have killed the bill.

Flook said he didn't think he should block the measure from going to voters. He
added that the speaker, who sits on all committees, could have broken the tie
anyway.

He also refused to condemn Blunt's chief of staff, Ed Martin, this summer when
Hispanic groups called for his head over remarks deemed racially insensitive. At
a Missouri Housing Development Commission meeting, Martin said that if "there's
a bunch of Mexicans" on a work site, some are probably illegal immigrant
laborers.

Flook said Martin was repeating what someone else had said. Martin is a
passionate person who sometimes makes "indelicate" remarks," Flook said, but
"he's not a racist."

Legislators on opposite sides of the issue generally give Flook high marks.

Democratic Rep. Maria Chappelle-Nadal, whose mother is Puerto Rican, said he
points out the legal pitfalls in bills. "He makes me happy, and I'm as left as
you can get," said Chappelle-Nadal of University City.

On the right, Flook draws praise from Republican Rep. Brian Nieves of
Washington, the sponsor of the English language resolution. Nieves, who also has
Puerto Rican roots, said Flook helps the GOP caucus understand the ramifications
of bills that affect Hispanics.

"He is not just an obstructionist," Nieves said.

The conflict Flook faces was manifested recently, when he was bombarded by both
sides.

Wearing his trademark white, starched shirt and red tie, Flook had coffee in
Liberty with Rick Barchers, a buddy from high school who remodels houses.
Barchers complains about competition from contractors who undercut his bids,
apparently by employing illegal workers.

Flook empathizes. Barchers is "paying all the taxes for people who work for
him," putting him at a competitive disadvantage with those who flout the rules.

Yet Flook opposed a bill that would have penalized employers for hiring illegal
immigrants. The plan "was turning every employer into a junior varsity
investigator on all his employees," he said.

Flook wanted to narrow the bill to industries most affected and give employers
immunity from liability as long as they used a federal database to check
workers' status.

Later in the day, Flook got an earful from his Hispanic friends when he lunched
at Taqueria de Mexico, a thriving restaurant in Kansas City's large Hispanic
community. Fearful of being deported because one parent is here illegally, some
families are avoiding church and school events, Flook was told.

Part of their fear stems from the directive issued by Blunt in August, ordering
residency checks for those arrested by the Highway Patrol. Dozens of motorists
across the state have been caught in routine traffic stops, with some already
deported.

Christina Jasso, a homeless case manager for the Guadalupe Centers Inc., said
parents fear getting stopped because of a bad brake light and ending up on the
next plane to Mexico.

Flook shares Jasso's concerns, but only to a point. He says the federal
government failed in its duty to police the border and now, crackdowns on
immigration create difficult problems such as deported fathers leaving children
behind with no support.

"It's the rules. The person took that risk when they came here," Flook said.

The conversation ends - but only for now.

"I know when I make my vote, I have to come back and face these people."

---

Tim Flook

Age: 40

Party: Republican

Hometown: Liberty, Mo.

Education: Bachelor's degree in history and philosophy in 1989 from William
Jewell College in Liberty; law degree from University of Missouri-Kansas City in
1992

Job: Practices law with Flook & Graham in Liberty

Political experience: Elected to the House in 2004; re-elected in 2006. Hopes to
become chairman of Judiciary Committee next year

Other affiliations: Chairs the Hispanic Business, Trade and Culture Commission

Last book read: "Thomas More on Statesmanship" by Gerard Wegemer

Personal: Engaged

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Tim Flook

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Durbin's immigration bill fails to move from Senate

BYLINE: By Megan Boehnke and Deirdre Shesgreen Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate killed on Wednesday legislation that would have provided a path to
citizenship for immigrants who came to the United States illegally as children.
The move also ends the quest of one Missouri college student to earn her degree
before being deported to her native Costa Rica.

The measure failed by a vote of 52-44, eight votes short of the 60 needed to
move forward.

"I'm not going to quit on this," Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the chief sponsor of
the bill, said after the vote. He said the bill had been defeated amid
"confusion, distortion and vitriol" that has permeated the national debate on
immigration.

Durbin's proposal, the "Dream Act," would have allowed young illegal immigrants
to earn permanent residency if they came to the country before turning 16,
graduated from an American high school and completed two years of college or two
years in the military, among other conditions.

Opponents said the bill would reward illegal behavior by granting amnesty to
those who come here illegally. They said it was open to abuse and could lead to
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants' getting U.S. citizenship.

The bill would put undocumented residents on a "swift path" to citizenship as a
"reward for illegal behavior," said Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala.

For Marie Gonzalez, 21, a junior at Westminster College in Fulton, Wednesday's
Senate vote was a personal blow.

Gonzalez, who came to the United States with her parents when she was 5, is
facing deportation next summer, 18 hours short of graduating from Westminster.
Her parents have been deported; she had become a leading advocate of the bill
and watched its defeat from the Senate gallery.

"Jefferson City is my home and has been my home for the last 16 years," she
said. "I'm a little disappointed by this, but I'm not giving up - I still have a
lot of hope left. I'm going to fight my hardest. I love this country."

Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., voted along with Durbin to advance the bill.

Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., and Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., both voted no.

"I believe that Congress and the Administration need to fix the current and
broken immigration system before we expand it," McCaskill said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Crash in Clayton leads to immigration charges

BYLINE: By Heather Ratcliffe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: St. Louis


A man who crashed his SUV into a Clayton restaurant patio about five weeks ago
has been indicted on charges of violating immigration law, U.S. Attorney
Catherine Hanaway announced Friday.

Sergio Lopez-Luna, 23, a Mexican citizen, was charged Thursday with using a
false Social Security number and falsely representing himself as a U.S. citizen
to gain employment, Hanaway said.

If convicted, Lopez-Luna could face up to five years in prison and up to a
$250,000 fine. After serving his sentence he would be deported, Hanaway said.

Lopez-Luna crashed an SUV into a sunken outdoor area of the Il Vicino restaurant
during lunchtime Sept. 18. One diner required hospitalization, and two others
were treated at a hospital and released.

Hanaway said the immigration issue "case came to our attention because of his
accident in Clayton."

Lopez-Luna had been washing dishes and doing other jobs at two restaurants, one
in the Central West End and one in Clayton, two blocks from the crash scene.

Federal officials first came in contact with Lopez-Luna in 2004, and he has
since been deported twice, Hanaway said.

Though federal officials wouldn't speculate about how Lopez-Luna gained entry to
the United States, a relative told a reporter last month that he walks more than
24 hours through the desert to cross the border on foot into Arizona.

Edgar Lopez, 27, the defendant's cousin, has said Lopez-Luna works to send money
home to support his wife and two daughters, ages 3 and 5, in his home city of
Maravatio, about three hours northwest of Mexico City.

Lopez-Luna would make $15 a week as a farm laborer in Mexico but earned about
$500 a week in St. Louis, the cousin said. He said Lopez-Luna planned to either
return to Mexico within two years or save enough to have his family join him
here illegally.

On the day of the crash, Lopez-Luna told Clayton police he was temporarily
blinded by a bright light as he attempted to make a left turn from westbound
Maryland Avenue onto southbound Central Avenue.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Lopez-Luna

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

NY makes deal on drivers licenses It is fourth state to get OK for new IDs, even
for illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By Devlin Barrett The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The administration of President George W. Bush and New York cut a deal Saturday
to make a new generation of super-secure drivers licenses for U.S. citizens, but
also allow illegal immigrants to get a version.

New York is the fourth state to reach an agreement on federally approved secure
licenses, after Arizona, Vermont and Washington. The issue is pressing for
border states, where new and tighter rules are soon to go into effect for
crossings.

The Arizona deal announced in August does not contemplate issuing licenses to
illegal immigrants, said Jeanine L'Ecuyer, a spokeswoman for Arizona Gov. Janet
Napolitano.

The proposed Arizona version would not be available to anyone who is illegally
in the country, because one of the intended uses of the 3-in-1 identity card
would be to prove U.S. citizenship, L'Ecuyer said.

The New York deal comes about one month after Gov. Eliot Spitzer announced a
plan whereby illegal immigrants with valid foreign passports could obtain a
license.

Saturday's agreement with the Homeland Security Department will establish a
three-tier license system in New York. It is the largest state to sign on so far
to the government's post-Sept. 11 effort to make identification cards more
secure.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said he was not happy that New York
intended to issue IDs to illegal immigrants. But he said there was nothing he
could do to stop it.

Under the compromise, New York will produce an "enhanced drivers license" that
will be as secure as a passport. It is intended for people who soon will need to
meet such ID requirements, even for a short drive to Canada.

A second version of the license will meet new federal standards of the Real ID
Act. That law is designed to make it much harder for illegal immigrants or
would-be terrorists to obtain licenses.

A third type of license will be available to undocumented immigrants. Those
licenses will be clearly marked to show they are not valid federal ID.

Officials, however, would not say whether that meant local law enforcement could
use such a license as probable cause to detain someone they suspected of being
in the United States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The first illegals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B14

LENGTH: 1232 words


In countless schoolrooms across America this week, children commemorated the
first Thanksgiving, the feast shared by the woebegone Pilgrims of Plymouth
Plantation and the Wampanoag Indians in 1621.

The kids learned about Samoset and Squanto, who taught the Englishmen what
they'd need to survive, and Massosoit, the Wampanoag chief who granted William
Bradford and his colonists the right to occupy 12,000 acres on the shores of
Cape Cod. And maybe the kids put on their cardboard feathers and Pilgrim hats
and re-enacted the feast at which the Pilgrims invited the Indians to sit down
and share their first harvest.

In the fall of 2007, the politics of this great story are too ironic to be
ignored. Here is Thanksgiving, which is nothing if not a parable of an
enlightened immigration policy. And here we are, 386 years later, embarking on a
12-month political campaign that is certain to involve heated rhetoric about
what an enlightened immigration policy should be. There seems to be no shortage
of possibilities:

Do we round up all 12 million undocumented immigrants - assuming that even were
possible - and return them to the countries of origin? Do we erect a
12-foot-high fence along all 2,000 miles of our border with Mexico? Or do we
issue documents to the undocumented - temporary workers cards and drivers
licenses - and let them work toward citizenship? This, on the theory that
because it's too hard and too expensive to find and take them all into custody,
we might as well keep track of them as well as possible.

And what about the immigrants who are here legally? Should they assimilate into
the existing culture? Does that include being required to speak English? What's
the definition of "assimilation" anyway? What's with this "bilingual education"
thing, this "para Español, oprima el numero dos" thing on the telephone? And
Bosnian translators at City Hall? Are we really doing the immigrants any favors?

It's not hard to imagine how the debate among the Wampanoag about what to do
about the Pilgrims could have taken a different direction:

"They're here illegally. What part of 'illegal aliens' don't they understand?"

"Well, we're not really a nation yet. We're just sort of 12,000 indigenous
people scattered among 40 villages in what they're now calling 'New England,' if
you can imagine that."

"I say let 'em starve. They'll just take our farm jobs."

"I say, we show 'em how to drop a fish in the hole when they plant their maize,
and let Nature do the rest. It's cheap labor."

"You let 'em use 12,000 acres, pretty soon they're going to think they own it.
The English are into land ownership, not land sharing. It's a different
culture."

"Don't rent to them. Maybe they'll move to Valley Park."

"Why should we learn English? Why don't they learn Wampanoag? And those stupid
hats and bonnets? Let 'em dress like us."

"If we don't close the shores, they'll be coming over here in droves."

"That stupid Squanto. Look what he started. You give 'em an inch, they'll take a
mile. Next election, I'm voting for the other guy."

"And now they want us to come to dinner? I don't think so."

The Democracy Corps is a political consulting group founded by three prominent
Democratic strategists: James Carville, Stanley Greenberg and Robert Schrum. Two
weeks ago, it published a poll that shook up the Democratic party. One of the
questions asked respondents to chose from a list of seven explanations for "why
the country is going in the wrong direction."

Among independent voters - the ones who control the outcome of presidential
elections - 40 percent chose this response: "Our borders have been left
unprotected, and illegal immigration is growing." By contrast, only 24 percent
said lack of action on health care was a key problem, and 23 percent cited the
war in Iraq.

Polls say that although a majority of Americans still favor some way of allowing
the 12 million undocumented immigrants here to work their way toward
citizenship, some key constituencies are hardening against the idea. Those
include blue-collar workers, middle-class men and African-Americans.

This presents the Democrats with a dilemma. They're counting on Hispanic voters
to swing such states as Colorado, Nevada, Arizona, Florida and New Mexico into
their electoral column, and substantial percentages of Hispanic voters favor
establishing a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Can the
ostensible "party of inclusion" include Hispanic voters without alienating its
other traditional constituencies? Especially when nuance doesn't play very well?

Hillary Clinton found that out the hard way a couple of weeks ago. The junior
senator from New York, who is the frontrunner among Democratic presidential
candidates, understood the nuances of New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to
issue drivers licenses to undocumented aliens: If they're going to drive anyway,
why not license them, require insurance and get them into the public records
database?

But nuance fails the bumper sticker test: "What part of 'illegal aliens' don't
they understand?" plays a lot better than "Well, the Department of Motor
Vehicles is not an immigration agency, and granting temporary workers visas as a
path to citizenship is not really amnesty." Mrs. Clinton tried to split the
difference in a debate with her Democratic rivals, who scored major points by
pointing out that splitting the difference is pretty much the same thing as
trying to have it both ways.

She won't make that mistake again, even though Mr. Spitzer has backed off his
drivers license plan, and the Democratic presidential field now is sounding
tough on the immigration issue: Get control of the borders first, no amnesty, no
drivers licenses, no social welfare benefits. The idea is to avoid getting
painted as "soft on immigration" by the Republicans, who see immigration as a
"wedge" issue that might save the election for them, despite President George W.
Bush's low poll numbers.

Ironically, the Democrats are far closer to Mr. Bush on immigration policy than
his would-be Republican successors are. The president's guest-workers,
strong-borders proposals are a rare example of genuine "compassionate
conservatism." From a practical point of view, it's where the nation is heading
anyway, no matter who wins the election - given the physical impossibility of
rounding up and deporting 12 million people and the budget-busting costs and
horrible symbolism of a 2,000-mile fence. But those realities won't stop the
demagogues on the right or the tap-dancers on the left.

People who work with immigrants say that newcomers to this country adapt quickly
to Thanksgiving. The food may be weird, but the core of the holiday is
universal: Family uniting to give thanks for their blessings and for one
another. For immigrants whose relatives in the United States have made it
possible for them to come here and begin new lives, the symbolism is obvious.

No doubt in many homes in towns and cities and rural communities all across the
country, most certainly including many in our own region, folks will sit down to
el pavo asado who do not have green cards in their pockets, or drivers licenses
or citizenship papers, either.

Like the Pilgrims - and like the ancestors of most of the rest of us - they
endured terrible hardships to reach a place that offered freedom and opportunity
for themselves and their families. In that spirit, we all will give thanks
together.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW |  THANKSGIVING 2007 OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Immigration issue fuels Blunt trip

BYLINE: By Jake Wagman ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 968 words


The governor's license proposal

TO STRENGTHEN CURRENT LAW It would specifically prohibit illegal immigrants from
obtaining drivers licenses.

TO PUNISH THOSE WHO HELP It would provide criminal penalties, including possible
jail time, for anyone who helps an illegal immigrant get a license.

---

Gov. Matt Blunt crisscrossed the state Monday announcing plans to expand his
crackdown on illegal immigration, the latest piece of a get-tough policy that
could resonate with voters.

Blunt wants to strengthen the state's law against issuing drivers licenses to
illegal immigrants - including stiff penalties for those who help illegals get a
license.

The move gives Blunt an issue that can appeal to voters in both parties at a
time when he faces a tough re-election battle.

Blunt's stance also comes as immigration reform - and specifically, the issue of
drivers licenses - has touched off a heated national debate.

On Monday, Blunt stopped in Springfield, Kansas City, Cape Girardeau and St.
Louis police headquarters to unveil the drivers license proposal, part of a
string of recent moves aimed at curbing illegal immigration.

"Missourians have been waiting for Washington to take action on illegal
immigration, but with very few results," Blunt said in St. Louis. "Our
frustration and the problem have only grown."

Illegal immigrants are already prohibited from receiving a drivers license in
Missouri. Guidelines that took effect in July 2005 require applicants to show
"proof of lawful presence" before being allowed to drive. Even immigrants in the
country legally can only get a temporary license, good for the length of their
visa.

Under the existing law, anyone who acquires a drivers license using fake
documents, or helps someone obtain a license fraudulently, can lose driving
privileges for a year.

Blunt did not provide specifics on how his proposal differs. The governor gave
only a broad outline that he will push to the Legislature next year: a law that
specifically prohibits illegal immigrants from obtaining drivers licenses and
provides criminal penalties, including possible jail time, for anyone who helps
them get one.

Missouri Attorney General Jay Nixon, a Democrat trying to unseat Blunt in 2008,
dismissed Monday's announcement as a "political stunt."

"Giving licenses to illegal immigrants is already against the law in Missouri,"
said Nixon's campaign spokesman, Oren Shur.

Hispanic leaders were not surprised by the announcement. Several met with the
governor recently, when they were briefed about his plan. One official at the
meeting said he understands the political reality for Blunt.

"We're trying to be pragmatic about this," said Jorge Riopedre, chairman of the
legislative affairs committee for the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metro St.
Louis. "The governor is simply not in a situation to sit on his hands and do
nothing. There are too many people in Missouri that want some type of
enforcement action."

A recent poll for the Post-Dispatch and KMOV-TV (Channel 4) found that concern
about illegal immigration could help Blunt.

Among those polled, almost two-thirds said they favored Blunt's directive
earlier this year to the state Highway Patrol to check the residency or
immigration status of people who are arrested or jailed.

About four of every five Republicans who were surveyed backed the policy, as did
nearly half of Democrats.

That support comes despite Missouri's relatively small immigrant population,
compared with states such as California and Texas. Hispanics make up less than 3
percent of Missouri's population, according to census figures, which attempt to
account for illegal immigrants.

Blunt, however, insisted that immigration is an important issue for state
residents and denied that he was playing politics.

"I don't think you need a poll to know this is a concern for Missouri families,"
he said.

The issue gained prominence locally in September when a car driven by an illegal
immigrant plowed into a restaurant in downtown Clayton, injuring three people.
The driver did not have a U.S. license.

One of those injured, James Travaglini, who was eating lunch with his wife that
day, said Monday that he is not sold on Blunt's plan.

Beefing up laws on drivers licenses, he said, won't stop illegal immigrants from
getting behind the wheel.

"How do you stop somebody from driving?" Travaglini said. "Just because you pass
a law does not mean they are not going to drive."

Blunt has sharpened his stance on immigration as another controversy has flared
around him. The governor's office has drawn fire for months after initially
acknowledging it routinely deleted office e-mails, even if they dealt with state
business.

The episode led to a new chief of staff for Blunt and prompted Nixon to set up
an investigation of how e-mails are treated in the governor's office. Blunt
recently unveiled a new e-mail retention policy.

Monday's announcement is the latest in a series of steps by Blunt targeting
illegal immigration. In March, he canceled the contract of a cleaning firm that,
while cleaning a state office building, was raided by federal agents for using
illegal immigrants.

Earlier this month, a state development board, at Blunt's urging, backed new
rules that could place heavy sanctions on builders who fail to verify that
workers on publicly subsidized projects are in the country legally.

On Monday, the governor framed his plan as a reaction to a failed attempt by New
York Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, to give illegal immigrants access to a
state drivers license.

"A plan like that might sound good to politicians in New York City or
Washington," Blunt said, "but it doesn't make sense right here in Missouri."

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/talk Is illegal immigration a big problem in Missouri, or is Blunt
playing politics? Give your thoughts in our Talk of the Day blog.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (Gov. Matt Blunt)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Illegal immigrant pleads guilty in crash that killed 21-year-old

BYLINE: By William C. Lhotka ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: St. Louis County


An illegal immigrant who admitted causing a traffic crash that killed a
21-year-old woman in Maryland Heights earlier this year faces a potential
sentence of up to 33 years in prison.

Pedro Santos, 27, pleaded guilty Monday in St. Louis County Circuit Court to
charges of involuntary manslaughter, leaving the scene of an accident and two
counts of second-degree assault.

The wreck just before midnight April 20 killed Nicole Allen, 21, of St. Louis
County. She was a junior at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and a 2004
graduate of Parkway North High School.

Through an interpreter, Santos admitted before Judge Michael T. Jamison that he
was drunk when he rammed his girlfriend's Lincoln Town Car into the back of an
Acura that stopped for a red signal at Marine Avenue and Bennington Place. Allen
was a passenger in the Acura.

Santos ran away, police said. Officers caught him three hours later in nearby
woods.

Prosecutor Alan M. Key Jr. and defense attorney Stephen Zarky were unable to
reach agreement on a sentence, so Santos' fate is left to Jamison.

The judge ordered a pre-sentence investigation by the Board of Probation and
Parole, and set sentencing for Jan. 10. The potential penalty ranges from
probation to 33 years in prison.

The driver of the Acura, Larry Lane, 24, and another passenger, Charles Miller,
28, were seriously injured. The assault charges were in regard to them.

Santos told police he was an illegal immigrant and had been working as a cook.
He had a Mexican drivers license.

State officials said that driving on a Mexican license during a brief visit was
OK, but that those who stayed must get a Missouri license.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Santos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Licensing illegals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A45

LENGTH: 608 words


Gov. Matt Blunt is ratcheting up his campaign to make life tougher for illegal
immigrants. Now he wants to deny them drivers licenses, even though they already
can't get drivers licenses, at least not legally. What's next? Ordering the
Department of Corrections to hang condemned prisoners after they're executed by
lethal injection?

The governor's preposterous plan may be good politics, but it's terrible policy.
It might even make the roads more dangerous.

If another driver happens to crunch your bumper, you're better off if the fellow
has auto insurance. To get insurance, he needs a drivers license. Generally
speaking, no license means no insurance. So you, the innocent motorist, could be
on the hook for serious losses if you're in a major accident caused by an
illegal immigrant.

This is a bogus issue, but even bogus issues have teeth, as Sen. Hillary
Clinton, D-N.Y., discovered when she was hammered for expressing mild support,
followed by mild opposition, for New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's since-withdrawn
plan to allow undocumented aliens to obtain drivers licenses.

If common sense were part of the reasoning, traffic safety alone would argue for
licensing illegal immigrants. To get a license, an immigrant with limited
English might learn what "Wrong Way" means, and what a yield sign looks like.
Since illegals are driving anyway - and they are - we'd all be better off if
they know the rules.

Licensing also would provide a way of keeping tabs on a population that's
otherwise under the radar. State government would know their address and have
their pictures, physical descriptions and signatures. They'd be driving cars
with valid registrations.

In fact, now that we think of it, immigration hard-liners, those who support the
impossible idea of rounding up all 12 million illegal immigrants and deporting
them, should be in favor of handing out drivers licenses: They'd make it easier
to find illegals if the impossible order ever is given.

Make no mistake: Immigrants aren't going to leave America because they can't get
a Missouri license. At least two illegal aliens have been involved in traffic
crashes that resulted in death and injuries in St. Louis this year.

Already, to get a license in Missouri, a person must show proof of legal
residence, which generally means a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. passport, visa
or green card. Mr. Blunt would toughen that prohibition and make it crime for
anyone to help an illegal get a license. Presumably, a neighbor who went along
to the license office to translate could be tossed in the pokey. Call this the
jail-a-friend act.

Still, Mr. Blunt reads polls, and immigration is a hot-button issue. In a recent
Post-Dispatch-KMOV poll, two-thirds of Missourians supported Mr. Blunt's order
to the Highway Patrol to check the immigration status of people they arrest. The
governor also is training patrol officers to enforce federal immigration laws in
order to scoop up more illegals.

Politically, the issue is a free ride for Mr. Blunt, a campaign in search of a
problem. There's no risk of backlash on election day, since less than 3 percent
of Missouri's population is Hispanic, a figure that includes U.S. born citizens,
legal immigrants and an estimated 65,000 illegals.

That's hardly worrisome, and it doesn't affect the crime rate. Incarceration
rates for young men are lower among immigrants than for the native-born,
according to a study this year by the pro-immigrant Immigration Policy Center.

Missouri would be better off if Mr. Blunt ordered the Highway Patrol to
concentrate on drunk drivers and criminals, rather than rounding up peaceful
dishwashers and farm hands from Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 8, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal immigrants and drivers licenses

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 1640 words


Faulty logic

The editorial "Licensing illegals" (Dec. 1) and Bill McClellan's column "Let's
shoot for insured illegals, fewer voters" (Dec. 2) imply that if illegal aliens
were licensed, they would purchase automobile insurance. I don't think that one
can jump to that conclusion. If they are violating the law by being in this
country, why assume that they will comply with state ordinances that require
drivers to carry auto insurance? Furthermore, how are they obtaining license
plates for their vehicles without proof of insurance? Unfortunately, lacking
national identity cards, drivers licenses serve a multitude of identification
functions; therefore, there should be reasonable limits placed on their
issuance.

That being said, this rising tide of anti-immigrant expression is xenophobic and
reminiscent of the anti-Jewish campaigns of early Nazi Germany. Rather than
address the real problems facing their countries (in pre-war Germany, runaway
inflation and unemployment; in our case, an endless war and what looks to be a
recession), certain politicians have tried to redirect public scrutiny by
arousing hatred of others. These illegal aliens aren't taking jobs that
American's want; for the most part they are taking the jobs that no one wants.
Legal citizens can do better on welfare; illegal aliens can't. Good
manufacturing jobs aren't being lost to illegal aliens; they have been sent
overseas by the corporations funding these very politicians.

Barry Bloch | St. Louis County

Set up a sting

Bill McClellan's column "Let's shoot for insured illegals, fewer voters" (Dec.
2), about allowing illegal aliens access to drivers licenses to enable them to
buy auto insurances, got me thinking. In the Al Pacino movie "The Sea of Love,"
the New York City Police sent vouchers to the last known addresses of at-large
felons indicating they could cash them in for free tickets to a New York
Yankee's ballgame. When the criminals showed up to claim their tickets, the cops
nailed them. Could this work with illegals? They show up for a drivers test, the
cops grab them and put them on a bus to be deported.

Does anyone believe that a Mexican dishwasher making $500 a week and sending
most of the money home is going to buy insurance? Besides, with the No Child
Left Behind program at a crossroads and the expanding "dropout factories"
(secondary schools with graduation rates of less than 60 percent) on the
increase, we need to protect those dishwashing jobs for the up-and-coming
Republicans.

Paul Luebbers | St. Charles

Mean-spirited rant

I was very disturbed to read "Licensing illegals" (Dec. 1), a mean-spirited rant
against Gov. Matt Blunt for his campaign to make life tougher for illegal
immigrants by denying them drivers licenses. The editorial included a blurb
about hanging condemned prisoners after they had been executed by lethal
injection. Who thought up that gem?

These peaceful dishwashers and farm hands from Mexico that the editorial
mentions are criminals if they entered our country illegally.

Ken J. Paynton | Stanton, Mo.

Don't help criminals

To all presidential candidates, New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Post-Dispatch
columnist Bill McClellan: Providing a state drivers license to an illegal alien
is an incredibly poor idea ("Let's shoot for insured illegals, fewer voters,"
Dec. 2). It is incredible that so many in governmental authority are skirting
the word "illegal." If someone is here illegally, nothing should be readily
available. Why would any illegal alien provide a correct name, address, date of
birth or Social Security number to obtain a drivers license? These individuals
have no documentation that makes their presence here proper. Why would anyone
consider selling them their first piece of formal, identifying documentation?

I believe that among illegal aliens are people who are hard-working,
family-loving, sincere persons who want only the best for themselves and their
family. However, if someone enters my house illegally, he is a criminal. I
shouldn't provide him a key for the remainder of his "visit."

This problem is federal in scope, but Congress seems unable or unwilling to
resolve it. Do not increase the severity of the immigration problem by providing
a state drivers license to anyone who, by his own intent, has sought to remained
concealed.

Karl H. Zickler | South St. Louis County

Hearts and minds

Do you know by name one single immigrant who has entered the United States in
the last five years? Have you asked why he left the only home and family he ever
knew, aware that he may not be able to return? If so, you surely would be immune
to (or even outraged by) Gov. Matt Blunt's relentless campaign against the
hard-working and desperate people who have entered our country without valid
permission to work here ("Immigration issue fuels Blunt trip," Nov. 27).

The issue of undocumented immigration in the United States is enormously
complex. Denying undocumented individuals the rudimentary rights they need to
live in our society, such as obtaining a drivers license or an apartment to
rent, will make their lives, and ours, more precarious and dangerous, but it
will not induce them to return to their native countries. Most immigrants don't
believe they have the option to leave.

Let's hope the people of Missouri will use both their hearts and their minds to
craft real solutions for our immigration problems. Mr. Blunt is clearly using
neither.

Patricia A. Curtis | St. Louis

Nation of laws

I take strong exception to Mr. Bill McClellan's contention in "Let's shoot for
insured illegals, fewer voters" (Dec. 2) that Sergio Lopez, who caused serious
injuries to a U.S. citizen while illegally driving in Clayton, should be granted
a valid Missouri drivers license.

The only way our society can remain stable and inclusive is for us to remain a
nation of laws. Our representatives make them, and we obey them. We're not free
to pick and chose which laws we'll obey, unless we'll willing to pay the
consequences. Bad behavior is not to be rewarded, such as receiving the
privilege to drive.

We're told that illegal aliens come here only to do the work that Americans
won't. Mr. Lopez had two part-time jobs washing dishes. These jobs and their
$500-per-week earnings might have been very attractive to the unemployed youth
in our community.

I have no objection to legal immigration. I have no desire to "hunt" for illegal
aliens. However, when they come in contact with the police and are identified as
illegal aliens, they should be charged if a crime was committed and then
deported. Had the police done their job the first time Mr. Lopez crashed, he
would have paid his penalty - a fine or jail - and been sent back to Mexico. The
second crash may not have happened, and serious injuries to lawful citizens
might have been avoided.

The first duty of our government, as contained in the Preamble to the U.S.
Constitution, is: "insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense,
promote the general Welfare."

Allowing Mr. Lopez to continue to trespass in our country and to select which of
our laws, if any, he'll obey can not be allowed in a nation of laws. Give him a
ticket home, not a drivers license.

Walt Ruch | Oakville

Giving away our sovereignty

In "Licensing illegals" (Dec. 1), the Post-Dispatch argues that the state would
be better off if the governor "ordered the Highway Patrol to concentrate on
drunk drivers and criminals, rather than rounding up peaceful dishwashers and
farm hands from Mexico." Are there not laws and procedures for immigrants to
legally live, work and play in our great nation? Of course.

Subsequently, those who do not follow these procedures for legalized immigration
are criminals. We continually are trying to identify degrees of criminality, but
crime is crime, and our state troopers, county deputies and local police
officers swear an oath to uphold all laws, not just the "major" ones.

I chuckled at the assertion that offering licenses to illegals would make it
easier to round them up "if" the order to deport the 12 million-plus illegal
immigrants ever came. We all know this will not happen, but offering licenses to
illegals gives away a little bit more of our national sovereignty, which already
is under attack. Legal immigrants attempt to integrate themselves into U.S.
culture. Illegals attempt to undermine that culture and are leading this country
to its inevitable collapse. The paper's stance on this issue only hastens this
collapse. Get a clue.

Kevin Jaquet | Hannibal, Mo.

Underselling farmers

A recent letter suggested the United States invest in the Mexican economy by
making small loans to people to start their own businesses as a way to
discourage immigration across our southern border. Another way would be for the
United States, through large agriculture companies, to stop selling food in
Mexico that undersells Mexican farmers. Doing so makes it impossible for Mexican
farmers to stay in business and support their families, giving them a reason to
migrate illegally to the United States.

Joan Botwinick | University City

Political theater

Gov. Matt Blunt certainly can read those polls.

In an exercise of pure political theater, he is flying around the state
trumpeting a plan to make it even more illegal than it already is for
undocumented aliens to get a Missouri drivers license.

I would have thought Mr. Blunt would find governing the state of Missouri to be
challenging enough without taking on federal issues. Maybe the governor should
name a Missouri ambassador to the United Nations.

Mr. Blunt has the Missouri Highway Patrol checking the immigration status of
people who are pulled over for speeding or changing lanes without signaling.
While we've got them stopped, why not make sure each motorist has registered for
the draft and filed his federal income tax forms properly, too?

Andy Ayers | University City

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Blunt, Nixon spar over who's tougher Governor's proposals for crackdown draw
response from the attorney general.

BYLINE: By Jo Mannies POST-DISPATCH POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Paul Hampel of the
Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 804 words


Gov. Matt Blunt and his Democratic rival, Attorney General Jay Nixon,
underscored the political power of the illegal immigration issue Monday by
touting actions that each said showed he was tougher in battling it.

Blunt called for the state Legislature to adopt a series of proposals, including
a requirement that school districts and local governments check the immigration
status of all employees.

Within minutes, Nixon fired off a release announcing his success in the
prosecution of a Lake of the Ozarks developer for employing illegal immigrants
to help build luxury condominiums. Michael G. Schlup of Leawood, Kan., was
sentenced Monday to five years' probation and close to $1 million in fines and
penalties.

Both announcements - accompanied by jabs at their rival - once again raised the
profile of the illegal immigration issue in Missouri's combative contest

for governor, even though the latest census figures cast doubt on the magnitude
of the problem in the state.

Campaign spokesmen for both men asserted that their opponent had been ignoring
the illegal immigration issue for years. Each accused the other of emphasizing
the matter only because polls - including the latest one by the Post-Dispatch -
show it to be a hot issue among voters.

Said Nixon spokesman Oren Shur: "For three years, Blunt has simply refused to
crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants and instead awarded them
with state contracts and tax credits."

Countered Blunt spokesman John Hancock: "For 14 years, Jay Nixon hasn't lifted a
finger to fight illegal immigration, even when former Gov. Bob Holden was found
to employ illegal immigrants. He's a Nixon-come-lately on this issue."

The latest census figures estimate Missouri's Hispanic population to be just 3
percent, including illegal immigrants.

The governor's news conference was held at the Highway Patrol regional office in
west St. Louis County.

Blunt contended that he was being forced to focus on illegal immigration because
"Washington has failed to act." But the governor acknowledged that some of his
proposals addressed problems not now evident in Missouri.

For example: Blunt is calling for the Legislature to ban "sanctuary cities,"
where he said local governments adopt policies "limiting the ability of local
officials from communicating with the federal government about potential
immigration violations."

"We don't believe there are any sanctuary cities in Missouri today," Blunt
conceded, but he added that a ban would prevent their creation.

Patrol Superintendent Col. James Keathley echoed Blunt's complaints about the
federal government. Keathley said Blunt's proposal to make it illegal to
transport illegal immigrants for certain illegal activities - prostitution, drug
trafficking, human trafficking and illegal labor - was necessary because federal
immigration officials sometimes don't want to get involved in such cases, even
when notified by the Highway Patrol.

A state law would allow the patrol to retain custody in such cases, Keathley
said.

Blunt also called for the Legislature to stiffen the state's existing penalties
on state contractors found to have employed illegal immigrants. Blunt proposed
that the state withhold 25 percent of the money allocated for such contractors.
State rules already require that such contracts be revoked, and bar such firms
from future state contracts.

Blunt said his proposal requiring checks of all employees in public schools or
local governments mirrors a requirement already in place for state employees.

But some school officials raised questions about whether a new state law was
needed.

Clayton School District spokesman Chris Tennill noted that the state last year
began requiring every district to have an FBI criminal background check done on
employees. Those checks are based on an employee's Social Security number.

Bert Schulte, deputy commissioner for the state Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education, said the certification process for teachers was another
safeguard. "There's no way a teacher could get that certification without being
a citizen," Schulte said.

---

BLUNT'S PROPOSALS:

o Requiring local governments and school districts to verify the immigration
status of everyone hired.

o Barring what Blunt called "sanctuary cities," where local governments adopt
policies that may limit communications with federal authorities about possible
illegal immigrants. Blunt acknowledged there are no sanctuary cities in
Missouri.

o Increasing the existing state penalties against contractors found to employ
illegal workers.

o Creating a state law barring the transportation of illegal immigrants for the
purpose of four specified illegal activities: prostitution, drug trafficking,
human trafficking and illegal labor.

---

Talk STLtoday.com/current Is Blunt's approach toward immigration right or
overkill?

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Local Hispanic businessmen form political action group

BYLINE: JO MANNIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 773 words


Jorge Riopedre of University City says he felt betrayed when he read Gov. Matt
Blunt's latest proposals this week to combat illegal immigration.

"Whether the governor intended it or not, his language included the code words
used by hate groups who preach intolerance and hatred," said Riopedre, a local
TV and radio producer.

Such as? -"'Sanctuary cities' and using 'illegals' as a noun," Riopedre
explained.

But even worse, Riopedre contended that the governor had broken an agreement
that some area Hispanic-Americans thought had been forged during a private
meeting with Blunt a month ago.

The governor, said Riopedre, had agreed to give the group "a heads-up" before
publicly unveiling any more proposals attacking illegal immigrants.

Blunt failed to do so before Monday's announcement, Riopedre said. "I first
heard about it when a reporter called me to ask for my reaction."

Riopedre, who notes that he's a native-born American, emphasized that he and
other local Hispanic-American activists "do not support or condone illegal
immigration. But we also don't support the dehumanizing of illegal immigrants."

Some of the governor's policies or proposals do just that, Riopedre contended.

Blunt spokeswoman Jessica Robinson confirmed that Riopedre has registered his
concerns with Blunt Chief of Staff Trish Vincent. Robinson said the governor has
made clear he is targeting only illegal immigrants.

"Our office has had a positive dialogue with this (Hispanic-American) group and
we will continue to seek their input," Robinson added.

Blunt began Monday's press conference by observing, "Missouri welcomes legal
immigrants. Legal immigration strengthens our economy and enriches our culture."

By coincidence, at about the same time Monday, Riopedre and other local
Hispanic-American businessmen issued a release announcing a new political action
committee: HisPAC.

HisPAC "seeks to promote policies that are beneficial to Missouri's Hispanic
community," the group said in a statement.

The new PAC's goal, said Riopedre, is to raise at least $20,000 for next year's
elections. The money would be distributed in sizable chunks among 10 favored
candidates of either party on the ballot.

"We're going to give money only to those candidates who we feel will give us the
time of day," Riopedre added.

Riopedre emphasized that the PAC is not anti-Blunt, but is "against his
policies."

And Riopedre pointed out that HisPAC's leaders also have beefs with the
governor's Democratic rival, Attorney General Jay Nixon.

Riopedre said he complained to Nixon's staff this week that some recent campaign
statements against illegal immigration appeared to be "Nixon's efforts to
'out-Blunt Gov. Blunt.'"

The upshot, said Riopedre, is that "I'm a legal citizen, born and bred in the
United States, and right now I feel unwelcome in the state of Missouri."

SETTLEMENT TALKS?

Jefferson City and the Internet are filled with talk that Blunt's lawyers are
conferring with the attorneys for Scott Eckersley, a former counsel to the
governor fired in late September.

The aim would be to reach a settlement and avert a threatened lawsuit by
Eckersley, who must file within weeks if he intends to sue under Missouri's law
protecting government whistle-blowers.

Eckersley has contended he was fired for raising concerns that Blunt's staff was
failing to comply with state open-records and record-preservation laws. Blunt
and his staff say Eckersley was fired for various reasons, including conducting
legal work for his father's health care business on state time.

When asked about the talks Monday, Blunt said he wouldn't comment on legal
matters. Eckersley's lawyers also declined to comment.

On Tuesday, Blunt was more forthcoming, telling reporters in Jefferson City that
rumors of a $400,000 proposed payment to Eckersley were inaccurate, calling it
"an absurd amount of money for someone who was fired for cause."

NIXON CAR FLAP RESURFACES

Friday is the latest deadline set by Blunt's Office of Administration in its
so-far failed attempts to get state Auditor Susan Montee to disclose information
about Nixon, a fellow Democrat.

OA Commissioner Michael Keathley wants Montee to name the Nixon staffer who told
her staff during its audit of Nixon's office last year that the attorney general
used his state-owned car only for official business. Since then, Nixon has
reimbursed the state for use of the car for travel to political events.

Keathley contends that Nixon's staff broke the law by lying to Montee. She says
no one lied, and that Nixon wrongly interpreted political travel as official.

Keathley also is threatening legal action.

---

STLtoday.com/politicalfix o More political news

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 24, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Big talk on immigration Blunt, Nixon take on undocumented residents, but issue
isn't that big in Missouri.

BYLINE: By David A. Lieb The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Missouri's gubernatorial candidates are competing in a one-upmanship contest to
appear tough on illegal immigrants. But their attention to the issue may be
disproportionate to the actual problem.

And some Hispanics living and working in Missouri legally say the politicians'
target on illegal immigrants is splattering onto them.

Republican Gov. Matt Blunt and his Democratic challenger, Attorney General Jay
Nixon, each announced a series of initiatives against illegal immigrants last
week. Their actions underscore how illegal immigration has become a hot issue in
U.S. politics.

As Congress has failed to take action, state executives and lawmakers have
sought to fill the gap. In 2007, state legislatures introduced more than 1,500
bills on immigration, 244 of which became law - triple the figures from 2006,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

The NCSL forecasts immigration as the No. 2 issue for states in 2008, behind
only budget concerns. In that context, it isn't surprising that illegal
immigration also figures prominently in Missouri's 2008 gubernatorial campaign.

Blunt stepped-up his efforts against illegal immigrants in August, when he
directed the Missouri Highway Patrol to check the residency status of everyone
it incarcerates. Since then, Blunt said last week, the patrol has turned over
126 illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Nixon, meanwhile, announced last week that a Lake of the Ozarks developer who
used illegal immigrants has been ordered to pay $980,000 in back taxes, fines
and court costs.

These efforts are perhaps the two candidates' most concrete accomplishments
against illegal immigrants. But both have rolled out other tough-sounding
policies.

Last month, Blunt proposed to make it illegal to provide drivers licenses to
illegal immigrants. The reality is that procedures used by the Missouri
Department of Revenue already bar illegal immigrants from getting drivers
licenses.

Similarly, Blunt proposed a law last week to ban "sanctuary cities" that don't
allow their police to check people's immigration status. But Blunt acknowledged
he didn't know of any such cities in Missouri.

Blunt also proposed laws last week against transporting illegal immigrants for
illegal labor, raising penalties for state contractors who employ illegal
immigrants, and requiring public employers to verify the immigration status of
newly hired workers through a federal database.

Nixon responded two days later by proposing a law giving the attorney general
new powers to ask a court to shut down businesses that repeatedly hire illegal
immigrants. Although details were scant, a Nixon spokesman said the intent was
to target businesses that don't take "appropriate and reasonable steps" to make
sure their workers are legal.

From their flurry of proposals, Missourians might get the impression that
illegal immigration is a big problem in this state.

The Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington-based research organization, used census
figures to estimate there are 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States
- an amount more than twice the population of Missouri. But barely one-half of 1
percent of those illegal immigrants live in Missouri, according to the center's
state-by-state estimates.

With an estimated 35,000 to 65,000 illegal immigrants, Missouri ranked 31st
nationally in the center's study released last year.

Yet, "you have two campaigns who both believe they can get traction on this
issue, and our community - the Hispanic community - is caught in between," said
Jorge Riopedre, of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan St. Louis.

Although it may not be the intent of Blunt and Nixon, what "is very tangible to
the Hispanic community is the pot of hate and intolerance being stirred here,"
Riopedre said.

When employers and police start wondering if every Hispanic-looking person is
here illegally, they are more likely to pass over them for jobs or pull them
over in their vehicles, Riopedre said.

Even though Missouri's Hispanic population has risen by more than one-third
since the 2000 census, Hispanics still comprise less than 3 percent of
Missouri's 5.8 million residents.

As result, Missouri politicians can safely propose tough-sounding policies
against illegal immigrants without alienating a sizable portion of the
electorate.

But Missouri elections often are decided by small margins. For example, Blunt's
margin of victory was just 2.9 percentage points in 2004.

Seeking to fight back against the political onslaught, Riopedre recently helped
form "HisPAC," a Hispanic political action committee that plans to contribute to
like-minded candidates in next year's elections.

---

David A. Lieb covers Missouri politics for the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Analysis

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ANALYSIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Federal agents visit St. Charles County Jail daily looking for illegals Since
0ct. 30, they've found 48 suspects - about 3.7 pct. of some 1,300 prisoners who
have been checked.

BYLINE: By Mark Schlinkmann ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES COUNTY


Since federal immigration agents began making daily visits to the St. Charles
County Jail on Oct. 30, they've learned of 48 inmates or former inmates believed
to be in the United States illegally.

County Corrections Director Alan Stahl said the agents reviewed jail files on
more than 1,300 inmates held during the past several months.

As of Monday, nine were still in the jail awaiting trial on either local or
federal charges. The charges range from drug sales to failing to appear for a
court hearing on an O'Fallon, Mo., ordinance violation, Stahl said.

Of the other 39, some were handed over to the U.S. Immigration Customs
Enforcement agency, and others were sentenced to prison on state charges
unrelated to immigration. Stahl could not provide a detailed breakdown.

He said immigration officials usually hold off proceedings aimed at deportation
until suspects finish their incarceration on other charges.

Before the daily visits in St. Charles, Stahl said, federal agents were
"probably checking a couple times a month to once a week" at the jail.

Ken Carlson, the federal agency's assistant field office director for Missouri
and Kansas, said the checks are part of a general effort to reach out to local
law enforcement authorities.

They come at a time of heightened concern about cracking down on illegal
immigration, both locally and nationally.

Carlson said immigration agents don't make daily visits to jails in St. Louis or
in St. Louis and Jefferson counties because they have access to computer
databases that provide information on people in those facilities. The agents
then follow up with in-person or telephone interviews.

An antiquated computer system at the St. Charles County Jail prevents remote
access for the federal agency. That's expected to change, Stahl said, after the
jail's software is upgraded by the end of next month.

In Lincoln, Franklin and Warren counties, Carlson said, immigration agents rely
on local authorities to notify them that someone born in another country has
been arrested on an unrelated charge. That's also the case across the
Mississippi River, in St. Clair and Madison counties, he said.

St. Charles County officials said the federal agency suggested daily visits
after the county applied in 2007 to join a program in which sheriff's deputies
get special training to investigate immigration violations.

A spokesman for the federal agency, Carl Rusnok, said the agency doesn't release
information by county on the number of jail inmates flagged with "detainers" for
future action because of suspected immigration violations.

Local officials, however, provided some information.

In St. Louis County, for example, the jail had at least 62 inmates between July
2006 and July 2007 who faced potential immigration prosecution following their
incarceration. Tricia Rodgers, a county corrections official, said the charges
included relatively few serious felonies.

In St. Clair County, jail superintendent Thomas Knapp said the federal agency
had placed detainers on 15 inmates since Sept. 1. The inmates were arrested on
charges such as unlawful use of a weapon and drug possession.

Rusnok said the timing of immigration proceedings often depends on whether local
prosecutors follow through with their initial charges. Police say that usually
happens, except when the charges are minor, such as traffic cases.

"Some people we can place a detainer on and take into custody literally the same
day," Rusnok said. "In other cases, it could be years, after their trials and
sentences."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 526 words


CLAYTON

Illegal immigrant pleads guilty of using false ID

Sergio Lopez-Luna, the illegal immigrant who injured three diners when his SUV
crashed into a sunken outdoor area of a Clayton restaurant Sept. 18, pleaded
guilty in federal court Wednesday of using a false Social Security number.

Officials said Lopez-Luna, 23, a Mexican citizen, bought a fake Social Security
card and permanent resident card for $250 and used them to get work at a
different Clayton restaurant. He faces up to six months in prison, then
deportation.

Lopez-Luna had been caught in the U.S. twice before and returned home
voluntarily. A cousin said last year that Lopez-Luna sends money back to his
wife and two daughters in Mexico.

Police said Lopez-Luna claimed to have been blinded by a bright light while
making a turn, causing him to run into the lunch crowd at the Il Vicino
restaurant.

ARNOLD

Fire in mobile home kills 60-year-old man

Danny Lee Allen, 60, died Wednesday in a fire at his mobile home in the 2100
block of Park Drive in Arnold. Authorities said it may have been caused by an
electrical problem.

Rock Community Fire Protection District spokesman Stephen Orr said neighbors
told officials they smelled smoke at 6 a.m. but did not report a fire until
6:45. Police and firefighters arrived to find the home engulfed in flames.

Orr said that witnesses reported that a neighbor kicked in a door to attempt a
rescue and that someone else may have used a hand-held fire extinguisher before
911 was called. Allen's body was in a recliner.

Police Sgt. Darren Rodgers said Allen had lived there since 1999 and lived
alone.

ST. LOUIS COUNTY

Woman pleads guilty of health care fraud

A St. Louis County health care agency owner admitted in court Wednesday that she
padded or faked bills that cost the government more than $400,000, officials
said.

Jacqueline Hayes, 53, of the 10300 block of Prince Drive, operated Complete Care
of America from 1995 to 2005, providing homemaking and personal care to clients
at home, prosecutors said.

Hayes pleaded guilty Wednesday of health care fraud, failure to pay employment
taxes and misuse of a Social Security number. She could face up to 40 years in
prison when sentenced in March.

ANNAPOLIS, MO.

Judge again rules against Bible giveaway

A federal judge has again ruled it unconstitutional for the South Iron school
district, in Annapolis, Mo., to let Gideons International distribute Bibles to
students. The district, about 120 miles southwest of St. Louis, said it would
appeal.

The practice dates back more than 30 years. Parents represented by the American
Civil Liberties Union won an earlier challenge, and pressed the issue after the
school tried to comply by limiting the giveaway to before or after class or at
lunch.

U.S. District Judge Catherine Perry granted a permanent injunction Tuesday,
consistent with an earlier temporary injunction that was upheld by a panel of
appellate judges.

Perry said the "primary effect" was "advancing religion by conveying a message
of endorsement. ..." But Mathew Staver, president of law group that defended the
district, said the school merely provided an "open forum" for secular and
religious information.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LAW & ORDER

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 11, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Man is sentenced in fatal crash Accident last year claimed life of college
student; motorist was driving drunk.

BYLINE: By William C. Lhotka ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: Maryland Heights


A judge sentenced an illegal immigrant on Thursday to 10 years in prison for
causing an accident here last year that killed 21-year-old college student
Nicole Allen and seriously injured two of her friends.

Pedro Santos, 27, pleaded guilty Nov. 26 before St. Louis County Circuit Judge
Michael T. Jamison to charges of involuntary manslaughter, leaving the scene of
an accident and two counts of assault.

Jamison heard tearful testimony in an emotion-laden hearing Thursday, as well as
a sobbing apology from the defendant through an interpreter. The judge said he
read scores of letters that he received about the case and deliberated long and
hard before rendering his decision.

Santos admitted he was drunk at 11:57 p.m. April 20 when he plowed a Lincoln
Town Car into the back of a 1991 Acura, stopped at a red light at the
intersection of Marine Avenue and Bennington Place in Maryland Heights.

The impact killed Allen, a junior at the University of Missouri-St. Louis who
was a 2004 graduate of Parkway North High School. Allen was a passenger in the
back seat. Seriously injured were another passenger, Charles A. "Chuck" Miller
III, 28, and the driver, Larry Lane, 24.

Santos fled from the scene. Police caught him three hours later in nearby woods.
Santos has admitted he was an illegal immigrant who was driving his girlfriend's
car and was drunk.

Prosecutor Alan M. Key Jr. said Santos had a blood alcohol level of .12 about
six hours after the accident. That level meant Santos' blood alcohol was about
.24 when the crash took place, Key told the Post-Dispatch, or three times
Missouri's legal limit of .08.

Miller and Allen's mother, stepfather and father told Jamison on Thursday about
the effects of the crash on their lives. Miller required spinal fusion, spends
nights in pain and lost his job because of his injuries.

Allen lived with her mother, Denise Buchholz, and her stepfather, Brian
Buchholz, in the 11800 block of Gold Leaf Drive, an unincorporated pocket of St.
Louis County near Maryland Heights. They said their lives will never be the
same.

Denise Buchholz said she had gone from planning a girls' night out with Nicole
to planning her funeral.

"She looked forward to graduating from college, getting married and having a
baby of her own," her mother told Jamison. "She never had a chance to live her
dreams."

Brian Buchholz reminisced about Nicole's help in picking out his wife's wedding
ring. Both talked about sleepless nights and problems with their jobs because
they have been unable to concentrate since Nicole died.

Through an interpreter, Santos said he was sorry for what had happened, that he
prayed for the victim, that he had been the sole provider for his family in
Mexico and that he would be unable to see his family for many years.

Once Santos completes his prison sentence in Missouri, he will be deported,
authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Santos Faces deportation after doing time

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Getting the whole story on immigrants

BYLINE: SYLVESTER BROWN JR.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 905 words


Thursday's headline, "Illegal immigrant sentenced in fatal crash," may not have
registered if I hadn't read a particular letter to the editor back in November:

"There is now a journalistic consensus that such headlines are prejudicial,"
University City resident Zuleyma Tang-Martinez wrote. "By referring to the
nationality and alleged immigration status of Latin Americans involved in
crimes, the Post-Dispatch fosters the stereotyping of Latin American immigrants,
whether documented or not, whether citizens or not, as criminals."

Tang-Martinez has a valid point. Last year, I wrote about the correlation
between race riots of the early 1900s and the flammable headlines of the time,
like "Negro brutally murders prominent citizen," and "Negro robs house." Walter
White, leader of the NAACP at the time, wrote that the "glaring,
prejudice-breeding" newspaper headlines and stories about "crime or suspected
crime committed by Negroes" fueled the riots.

Courtney Prentis, director of Catholic Charities Community Services Southside
Center, an organization that assists immigrants in St. Louis, is concerned about
the rhetoric and extremes she finds in the media regarding illegal immigration.

"We're at a point where frustrations and anxieties may eventually harm
communities," she said. "We're making choices and doing things as Americans we
said we'd never do again."

I empathize with such sentiments. But I also recognize the media's conundrum.
It's responding to what has become routine phrases and pedestrian fears.

Illegal immigration is a hot-button, wedge issue. Gov. Matt Blunt has been
crisscrossing the state touting aggressive plans to crack down on illegal
immigrants. Politicians and bombastic commentators speak of "Mexicans" as if
they were dangerous Martians out to steal our homes and take our lives.

How can the media strike a balance between race and the illegal immigration
debate?

"It can report the stories thoroughly. Go into the community, tell the whole
story. What kind of jobs do the undocumented have, what schools do their kids
attend, what are their sacrifices, their problems?" said Gilbert Bailon, editor
of the Post-Dispatch editorial page. "This is not to say the media must
sympathize or try to do stories that make people like the undocumented.
Everything is fair game."

Bailon will serve as a panelist Tuesday for a forum sponsored by the St. Louis
Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, titled "Race & the Media:
Illegal Immigrants and Hispanics Seen Through the Prism of the Press." He will
be part of a discussion about the dramatic rise in stories about immigration,
the blurred lines regarding illegal immigrants and Hispanics in general, and the
media's role in challenging and reinforcing stereotypes.

Even though Missouri's population is less than 3 percent Hispanic, immigration
is still an emotional and significant issue, Bailon said. "It's not just a
euphemism for Hispanics. In St. Louis, you have people from all over the world -
Asians, Bosnians and Africans. They have different plights, issues and
statuses," Bailon said. "Unfortunately, the people who aren't covered by the
media are the immigrants themselves. They are faceless, unknown, not humanized."

News organizations, he added, need to approach immigration and the growing
Latino population as it did technological growth.

"How many newspapers had full-time technology writers 10 years ago?" Bailon
said. "We need to get steeped into this, make contacts, delve into communities
and follow the issues more broadly."

There's a desperate need to reclaim the immigration issue, said Katherine Reed,
assistant professor of Journalism at the University of Missouri-Columbia, who
also will speak at the forum.

"There's so much misinformation being put out there, particularly about crime
related to immigration - it has been highly overstated," said Reed. "News
organizations need to make this subject theirs - talk to the true experts and
economists, so it can carefully, objectionably challenge issues like this
nonexistent correlation between illegals and crime. It needs to fight bad
information with good information."

Reed also edits ¡Adelante!, a bilingual magazine for the Latino community. Last
year, the publication interviewed small and large business owners who utilized a
government-sponsored guest worker program. The story revealed complicated layers
of the illegal immigrant debate.

"We talked to seasonal workers from Mexico who went back home after they
worked," Reed said. "Employers were impressed with the workers and feared losing
them or their businesses after they left. We interviewed employers who wanted to
use the program but found it too hard."

The topic of illegal immigration is getting "a lot of flash," said Bailon. The
media, he added, could add real-life substance to the debate and help the
country work past that rhetoric.

Last year, about a half-million Hispanics and others filled the streets of
Dallas for one of the largest civil rights marches in the city's history. As a
guest on the program "Democracy Now," Bailon, the grandson of Mexican
immigrants, explained why the issue rises above politics for him:

"This is as personal as it gets," he said. "It's ... my family, my children, my
parents, my uncles and aunts ... This is not something that I think people in
Washington understand."

---

For more information about the Society of Professional Journalists' forum, go to
www.stlspj.org.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

On the fence risky issue o 'harsh rhetoric can cost votes. but so can leniency.'

BYLINE: By Tim O'Neil ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1479 words


Welcomed or not, a rising debate over illegal immigration has staked a prominent
claim on this year's political stage.

Most Republican presidential candidates talk tough about secure borders and
restricted opportunities to citizenship for people who are here illegally. The
Democrats say as little as they can, hoping that a backlash of Hispanic voters
against GOP bluster will snatch the southwestern states that went for President
George W. Bush in 2004.

Both strategies carry risk. For Republicans, the number of Hispanic voters
surely will continue to increase. Tough talk implies carry-through on
controversial and expensive options - more border fence, more deportations and a
shrinking pool of cheap labor for business owners.

Democrats risk appearing weak on illegal immigration. And if they win while
saying little on the issue, analysts say, they could face pressure from
pro-immigrant backers who strongly oppose raids on workplaces and the fence.

The two parties are dancing to wide differences between core constituencies. A
recent poll by the Los Angeles Times and Bloomberg said illegal immigration
places third among the top issues for Republicans, but only sixth for Democrats.
A Post-Dispatch poll of Missourians in November produced similar results; just 2
percent of Democrats said immigration was their most important issue, while 15
percent of Republicans cited it.

And there's turmoil within the parties. The GOP includes voters who strongly
oppose illegal immigration and business owners who want low-wage workers. The
Democratic tent includes unions that oppose illegal immigrants in the workplace
and unions that claim to speak for them.

Meanwhile, the all-important "independents" are closer in sentiment to the GOP
on this issue, according to a polling company co-founded by Democrat James
Carville. That poll said nearly twice as many independents picked illegal
immigration as a key issue than picked health care or the war in Iraq.

"There are competing impulses," said Steve Legomsky, a law professor at
Washington University and a specialist on immigration issues. "Harsh rhetoric
can cost votes. So can leniency. A lot of voters are angry about undocumented
immigration, and a lot of others are angry at the demagoguery.

"Which force is greater, I frankly don't know."

Immigrant Arithmetic

First, the numbers, or what passes for them.

The U.S. Office of Homeland Security and the Pew Hispanic Center, a think tank
in Washington that even the government quotes, estimated that 11.5 million
immigrants were living in the United States without authorization as of 2006.
About 40 percent of them have come here in this decade, and roughly 500,000 more
arrive each year.

In 1996, the U.S. had about 5 million illegal immigrants.

Ken Warren, a political science professor at St. Louis University and a veteran
pollster, calls the estimates "crapshoots." But it's what we have, so "12
million" is the oft-quoted guess for the number here illegally (or who are
unauthorized or undocumented, depending upon the speaker or writer).

Nearly 80 percent of them are of Hispanic origin, most from Mexico. Most crossed
the border without documents, but roughly a third obtained temporary visas and
then stayed.

All told, people of Hispanic heritage make up about 15.5 percent of the nation's
population - 47 million - and constitute the largest ethnic minority. Roughly 25
percent of those adults are estimated to be illegal immigrants. People of
Hispanic heritage make up about 9 percent of the nation's eligible electorate
but only about 6.5 percent of the expected November turnout, Pew says.

Most of them, legal and otherwise, live in a few states in the American
Southwest. Illinois' population is almost 15 percent Hispanic, most of whom live
in the Chicago area, and Missouri's is only about 3 percent, many of them
scattered among rural meatpacking towns.

Although Missouri's illegal immigrant population would fit inside the Edward
Jones Dome, the issue is resonating in the state. Last year, Republican
legislators pushed through a proposed constitutional amendment to make English
the official language of government proceedings. Voters will consider it Nov. 4,
when they choose the next governor and president.

Jorge Riopedre, secretary of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan
St. Louis, called much of the debate "very unfortunate. There certainly is
unease in the heartland that the world is changing, and now we have politicians
stoking it. Just a few days ago, I was getting stares because I was talking in
Spanish to a colleague."

Joan Suarez, chairwoman of Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates in St.
Louis, said the proposed amendment "sends the message that we are racist and
unwelcoming."

Said state Rep. Brian Nieves, R-Washington, who sponsored the amendment, "It's
absurd for anyone to come to America and then be offended by official government
proceedings' being conducted in English." Nieve's father was from Puerto Rico.

Enforcement

The federal government outlawed employment of undocumented immigrants in 1985,
but businesses have gotten around that for years.

As the issue has gained steam, workplace arrests and deportations have
skyrocketed, but they haven't kept pace with the rising numbers of illegal
immigrants.

Bush, who sought a Hispanic-friendly GOP, proposed legislation to set up a way
for many illegal immigrants to eventually become citizens, greatly expand the
guest-worker program, get tougher on employers who hire them and increase border
security. But it fell last June to opposition by fellow Republicans, many of
whom said the citizenship plan was "amnesty" for lawbreakers.

Stung by defeat, Bush announced tougher enforcement. The government plans to
build 670 more miles of border fence this year.

St. Louisans Riopedre and Suarez take offense to the fence.

"Anyone who says we can close the border is really smoking something," Riopedre
said. "Desperate people are going to find ways across a fence."

Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City, begs
to differ. Kobach was immigration adviser to John Ashcroft when Ashcroft, a
former Missouri governor and senator, was U.S. attorney general. Kobach said the
40-mile-long, 30-foot-high double fence the government built near San Diego
"absolutely works. What used to be the most porous point became the most secure.
We need it across the entire border."

The debate can be perilous for candidates. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. and a key
backer of the failed bill, was strongly criticized for supporting "amnesty." And
Sen. Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., who also supported the bill, was attacked for
appearing to both support and oppose a short-lived plan by New York state to
grant drivers licenses to illegal immigrants.

Kobach thinks the federal "E-Verify," a federal Internet system to let employers
verify an employee's status, should be used nationwide; it's voluntary now.

Courtney Prentis, who runs a Catholic Charities center in St. Louis, says she
sees a different side of the issue - the faces of people who may be here without
documentation.

"We're losing sight of what Christ said: 'When I was a stranger you welcomed
me,'" Prentis said. "I see a sense of fear. I don't think families are going to
pack up and leave, but putting this pressure on them really hurts them."

Citizenship

So what to do with 12 million people?

The failed national bill would have granted probationary status to illegal
immigrants who had arrived here before Jan. 1. Those who met certain guidelines,
including background checks and payment of $7,000 in fines and fees, could work
toward citizenship within 12 or so years.

The Democratic presidential candidates and Republican McCain support that, or
something like it. Other Republicans, including former supporters such as former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, now call
that plan "amnesty."

Meanwhile, people keep trying to cross the border. Legomsky, the Washington U.
law professor, said that "a high volume of immigration tends to build upon
itself, because people come to join family members."

America's long-held belief in assimilation is a cultural issue important to
conservatives, who were shocked when many participants in mass pro-immigration
rallies in Los Angeles and other cities in March 2006 carried Mexican flags. A
few even carried banners saying they were taking back land taken by the United
States in its war with Mexico in 1846-48.

Riopedre, of the local Hispanic business group, said the flag images on TV
"undid a lot of our moving forward."

Said Riopedre: "That notion underestimates the pull of citizenship in the U.S.A.
My family experienced it, and we are mainstream. It is a powerful dream, and
it's why this country is as strong as it is."

---

stltoday.com/politics Watch video interviews with an immigrant, an employer of
immigrants and a guardsman.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Issues 2008 immigration

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - People on the beach in Tijuana, Mexico, in August watch a border patrol
that monitors the fence that separates the United States from Mexico. Immigrants
who live legally in the United States go to the border to meet with families and
friends on the Mexican side. AFP/Getty Images  PHOTO - Seen through a United
States flag, Delfino Rocha, holding a sign, participates in a rally in
Woodbridge, Va., in September, protesting a proposed crackdown on illegal
immigration.  The Potomac News/The Associated Press  GRAPHIC - ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION POST-DISPATCH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 578 words


BIG SKY, MONT.

22nd victim is killed in avalanche this season

An avalanche killed a college student on a backcountry ski trip, officials said
Monday.

The avalanche on Sunday swept Tyler Stetson, in his 20s, into trees, and he was
dead when searchers found him within 10 minutes, the Gallatin County Sheriff's
Department said.

Searchers included his ski partner and other people in the southwestern Montana
area known as Beehive Basin.

Stetson was a junior at Montana State University in Bozeman.

With the latest death, avalanches have killed at least 22 people across the West
since Dec. 2. The national average for avalanche deaths is about 25 a year,
according to the Colorado Avalanche Information Center.

LANSING, MICH.

Drivers licenses barred for illegal immigrants

Michigan will no longer let illegal immigrants get drivers licenses, a practice
just seven other states continue to allow.

Michigan Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land, who oversees the motor vehicle
department, announced the new policy Monday and said it takes effect today.

The new policy also bars people who are legal but not permanent U.S. residents
from getting licenses. Legislation to allow those on temporary work or student
visas to get licenses is pending in the Legislature.

The change is aimed at complying with an opinion issued last month by Attorney
General Mike Cox, who said granting licenses to illegal immigrants is
inconsistent with federal law. Opinions by the attorney general's office are
legally binding on state agencies and officers unless reversed by the courts.

Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington do not require
drivers to prove legal status to obtain a license.

PORTLAND, MAINE

Frigid temps take over in all the usual places

Temperatures dropped to breathtaking levels, well below zero, in extreme
northern sections of Maine early Monday.

Thermometers registered 34 degrees below zero at Van Buren, 27 below at Presque
Isle and 26 below at Allagash, the National Weather Service reported. In the
northern Rockies, Butte, Mont., registered 32 below at 8 a.m. - with a wind
chill of minus 47, the weather service said.

Another of the nation's usual cold spots, International Falls, Minn., managed
only 16.1 below zero, but even after the sun came up its temperature of 14 below
combined with 6 mph wind for a wind chill of 29 below zero, according to a
weather service website.

WASHINGTON

Breast reconstruction findings are published

Breast cancer patients who had reconstructive surgery using implants immediately
after mastectomies were twice as likely to acquire infections as women who
immediately had breast reconstruction using their own tissue, according to a
study published Monday.

The article in Archives of Surgery, which examined the medical records of breast
surgery patients at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis from mid-1999 to
mid-2002, found that 50 of 949 patients acquired an infection at the surgical
site within a year after surgery.

Roughly 12 percent of the infections occurred in mastectomy patients who
immediately had implant surgery, compared with roughly 6 percent of infections
in those who immediately had breast reconstruction using their own abdominal
tissue, the study said.

"The bottom line is that implants are associated with an increased risk of
infection in breast cancer patients," said Margaret A. Olsen, the lead author of
the study and a research assistant professor of medicine at Washington
University School of Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Oklahoma law on illegal immigration sends thousands of Hispanics fleeing

BYLINE: By Justin Juozapavicius THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla.


Edgar Castorena had diarrhea for 10 days and counting, and the illegal immigrant
parents of the 2-month-old didn't know what to do about it.

They were afraid they would be deported under a new Oklahoma law if they took
him to a major hospital. By the time they took him to a clinic, it was too late.

A ruptured intestine that might have been treatable instead killed the U.S.-born
infant, making him a poster child for opponents of House Bill 1804 months before
it was enacted as the Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act of 2007.

"The sad part of it was the child didn't have to die if House Bill 1804 didn't
ever come around," said Laurie Paul, who runs the clinic where Edgar was finally
taken. "It was a total tragedy because the bill was there to create the myths
and untruths and the fear."

The law, billed by its backers as the nation's toughest legislation against
illegal immigration, took effect Nov. 1. It bars illegal immigrants from
obtaining jobs or state assistance and makes it a felony to harbor or transport
illegal immigrants.

A final portion of the law goes into effect July 1, requiring private companies
to verify the employment eligibility of all new hires.

Although it's difficult to characterize which state has the toughest
immigration-related law, Oklahoma's goes beyond most because it includes the
clause about harboring and transporting illegal immigrants, said Ann Morse,
program director for the National Conference of State Legislatures' Immigrant
Policy Project.

The crackdown has caused thousands of Hispanics to flee to neighboring states,
with as many as 25,000 leaving northeastern Oklahoma alone, according to the
Greater Tulsa Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

The law's fallout also can be seen in the struggling businesses, worker
shortages and widespread fear among immigrants who say they are afraid to drive
to church or the market because police might pick them up.

Civil rights leaders call the law xenophobic and redundant, and say other states
will wrongly look to Oklahoma to push their own anti-illegal immigrant
legislation. Business and church leaders also have been vocal opponents.

"Oklahoma was settled by immigrants ... which means that diverse is normal in
Oklahoma," said the Rev. Miguel Rivera, president of the National Coalition of
Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders.

Supporters say the law is necessary because of Washington's bungled immigration
policy. They also believe the law has helped deter crime and punishes the
companies that make money on the backs of illegal labor.

The bill's author, state Rep. Randy Terrill, a Republican, said there was no
correlation between his bill and Edgar's death, noting that the baby died in
July, months before the law took effect, and that the law provided an exception
for emergency medical care.

"To the extent that these illegal alien parents deprived their own child of
needed and necessary medical care because of their ignorance of the law, then
they should be in prison, frankly," Terrill said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Metro Digest NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 800 words


MISSOURI

Jefferson City

Bishops seek help for immigrants

Missouri's Roman Catholic bishops are telling lawmakers and statewide elected
officials to stop trying to "vie to see who can be tougher on illegal
immigrants." The comments came in a letter signed by bishops in St. Louis,
Jefferson City, Springfield and Kansas City.

The letter also calls for more money to teach English, allowing the children of
illegal immigrants to pay in-state college tuition, and giving humanitarian aid
regardless of immigration status. The bishops also want a federal overhaul of
the immigration system.

Lawmakers have filed bills that would bar illegal immigrants from enrolling in
public colleges and assess tens of thousands of dollars in fines on employers
who know or "should have known" that they are employing illegal immigrants.

St. Louis County

Emergency days added to school year

ST. ANN - The Pattonville School Board has approved a 2008-09 school calendar
with six more emergency days. District officials said the state is requiring all
school districts to add the days to the end of the school calendar.

The district will have to change the last day of school based on how many of the
six days are used; Pattonville has a 177-day school year, but the calendar
tentatively shows it at 183.

The first day of school will be Aug. 14 and the last day is set for June 4. But
it could be as early as May 28, depending on how many emergency closings occur.

75-acre project gets approval

CHESTERFIELD - The City Council has approved a 75-acre commercial development in
Chesterfield Valley, west of the Olive Street Road and Chesterfield Airport Road
intersection.

The developer, Chesterfield Blue Valley LLC, plans to build restaurants, retail
shops, hotels and office space.

"This is the biggest development in the valley outside of Chesterfield Commons.
It's going to be like a West Port Plaza kind of development," City Administrator
Michael Herring said.

St. Charles County

Schools will close for general election

ST. CHARLES COUNTY - Students in the Fort Zumwalt, Wentzville and Francis Howell
school districts won't have classes on Nov. 4 while the buildings serve as
polling places for the presidential election.

St. Charles School District students will be dismissed early that day. The
county does not use any schools in the Orchard Farm district, so classes will be
scheduled as usual Nov. 4.

Rich Chrismer, director of elections for St. Charles County, said the Election
Authority and the school districts worked together to respond to concerns from
parents and teachers about the safety of students when the buildings were open
to voters, especially with expected high turnout.

ILLINOIS

Springfield

Former SIU chancellor is honored

Kenneth A. "Buzz" Shaw, a Granite City native and former chancellor over the
Southern Illinois University system, is among six honorees for this year's
Laureates of the Lincoln Academy of Illinois, Gov. Rod Blagojevich's office
announced Monday.

The award is the highest honor the state can bestow on Illinois natives and
former residents. Shaw, who was a basketball standout at Edwardsville High, left
the SIU system in 1986, going on to lead the University of Wisconsin system and,
later, to be president of Syracuse University, from where he recently retired.

Also among this year's Lincoln laureates are Centralia, Ill., native William
Norwood, the first African-American quarterback on the SIU-Carbondale football
team and later the first African-American pilot to fly for United Airlines.

Also honored this year is Pinckneyville, Ill., native Irl F. Engelhardt,
philanthropist and former chairman of Peabody Energy, the world's largest coal
company. The Lincoln Academy was established in 1965 to honor Illinois' most
distinguished citizens. Past honorees have included Ronald Reagan, the Chicago
Bears' Walter Payton, and poet laureate Gwendolyn Brooks.

St. Clair County

Mayor wants to keep trauma center

EAST ST. LOUIS - Mayor Alvin Parks wants the Illinois attorney general to keep
Kenneth Hall Regional Hospital from discontinuing its Level II trauma service.

Parks, who has been spearheading the city's effort to keep its only hospital
from moving, said he asked Attorney General Lisa Madigan to seek an injunction
that would keep the trauma center operating. A spokeswoman with Madigan's office
said she hadn't received the letter.

Starting Friday, Kenneth Hall Regional, which has Southern Illinois' only Level
II trauma center, will no longer treat patients with the most serious injuries
who generally need immediate surgery. Southern Illinois Healthcare Foundation,
the hospital's owner, said the reduction will save the nonprofit foundation $1.5
million a year. The foundation wants to merge the hospital with another it owns
five miles away in Centreville, Touchette Regional Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Metro Digest NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 835 words


MISSOURI

Jefferson City

Bishops seek help for immigrants

Missouri's Roman Catholic bishops are telling lawmakers and statewide elected
officials to stop trying to "vie to see who can be tougher on illegal
immigrants." The comments came in a letter signed by bishops in St. Louis,
Jefferson City, Springfield and Kansas City.

The letter also calls for more money to teach English, allowing the children of
illegal immigrants to pay in-state college tuition, and giving humanitarian aid
regardless of immigration status.

Lawmakers have filed bills to bar illegal immigrants from enrolling in public
colleges and assess tens of thousands of dollars in fines on employers who know
or "should have known" that they are employing illegal immigrants.

St. Louis County

Big crowd turns out for project hearing

DES PERES - A standing-room-only crowd of more than 200 attended a public
hearing Monday night on the proposed Des Peres Corners development at the
southeast corner of Manchester and Ballas roads.

Summit Development Group LLC has asked the city to rezone about 12 acres of
property from residential to commercial and grant conditional-use permits for a
Schnucks supermarket and a Bank of America. The developer is also seeking
approval of a transportation development district.

John Vasquez, a member of a group called Residents Defending the Character of
Des Peres, said the development would not follow the city's comprehensive plan.
He asked that the Schnucks be located farther north to provide the required
depth of 500 feet from the center line of Manchester Road.

John Ross of Summit announced changes including a reduction in the total square
footage and addition of block walls and screening to shield residential
properties.

Emergency days added to school year

ST. ANN - The Pattonville School Board has approved a 2008-09 school calendar
with six more emergency days. District officials said the state is requiring all
school districts to add the days to the end of the school calendar.

The district will have to change the last day of school based on how many of the
six days are used; Pattonville has a 177-day school year, but the calendar
tentatively shows it at 183.

The first day of school will be Aug. 14 and the last day is set for June 4. But
it could be as early as May 28, depending on how many emergency closings occur.

75-acre project gets approval

CHESTERFIELD - The City Council approved a 75-acre commercial development in
Chesterfield Valley, west of the Olive Street Road and Chesterfield Airport Road
intersection.

The developer, Chesterfield Blue Valley LLC, plans to build restaurants, retail
shops, hotels and office space.

"This is the biggest development in the valley outside of Chesterfield Commons,"
City Administrator Michael Herring said.

St. Charles County

Schools will close for general election

ST. CHARLES COUNTY - Students in the Fort Zumwalt, Wentzville and Francis Howell
school districts won't have classes on Nov. 4 while the buildings serve as
polling places for the presidential election.

St. Charles School District students will be dismissed early that day. The
county does not use any schools in the Orchard Farm district, so classes will be
scheduled as usual Nov. 4.

Rich Chrismer, director of elections for St. Charles County, said the Election
Authority and the school districts were responding to concerns about student
safety.

ILLINOIS

Springfield

Former SIU chancellor is honored

Kenneth A. "Buzz" Shaw, a Granite City native and former chancellor over the
Southern Illinois University system, is among six honorees for this year's
Laureates of the Lincoln Academy of Illinois, Gov. Rod Blagojevich's office
announced Monday.

The award is the highest honor the state can bestow on natives and former
residents. Shaw, a basketball standout at Edwardsville High, left SIU in 1986,
going on to lead the University of Wisconsin and later to be president of
Syracuse University. He recently retired.

Also among this year's Lincoln laureates are Centralia, Ill., native William
Norwood, the first African-American quarterback on the SIU-Carbondale football
team and later the first African-American pilot to fly for United Airlines.

Also honored is Pinckneyville, Ill., native Irl F. Engelhardt, philanthropist
and former chairman of Peabody Energy.

St. Clair County

Mayor wants to keep trauma center

EAST ST. LOUIS - Mayor Alvin Parks wants the Illinois attorney general to keep
Kenneth Hall Regional Hospital from discontinuing its Level II trauma service.

Parks, who has been spearheading the city's effort to keep its only hospital
from moving, said he asked Attorney General Lisa Madigan to seek an injunction
that would keep the trauma center operating.

Starting Friday, Kenneth Hall Regional, which has Southern Illinois' only Level
II trauma center, will no longer treat patients with the most serious injuries
who generally need immediate surgery. Southern Illinois Healthcare Foundation,
the hospital's owner, said the reduction will save the nonprofit foundation $1.5
million a year.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 2, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Judge backs Valley Park's push against hiring illegal immigrants City's
ordinance calls for suspension of business licenses.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 489 words


For more than a year, Valley Park and other municipalities across the country
have fought for ordinances targeting the very thing that has drawn millions of
illegal immigrants to the United States - the businesses that hire them.

Now a federal judge in St. Louis has ruled that the small city 20 miles west of
St. Louis has the right to suspend the permits of companies that hire illegal
immigrants.

It's the first time a federal court has ruled in favor of such an ordinance,
though questions remain over whether such laws will ultimately be enforceable. A
federal judge ruled last year that Hazleton, Pa., could not impose such
sanctions.

Advocates for tougher illegal immigration laws say the Valley Park ruling will
embolden other cities that have enacted or are considering similar measures.

"It's an across-the-board victory," said Kris Kobach, the attorney who
represents Valley Park and Hazleton. "You are going to see this decision quoted
by cities all across the country."

In summer 2006, Valley Park made national headlines when it passed the business
license ordinance along with another provision that penalized landlords for
renting to illegal immigrants.

Several groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, challenged Valley
Park's ordinances in state and federal court, arguing that the laws promoted
discrimination and violated the constitution. The city eventually repealed its
ordinance targeting landlords but kept the other dealing with businesses.

District Judge E. Richard Weber ruled that ordinance isn't discriminatory
because it explicitly forbids complaints against businesses based on national
origin and reinforces federal law.

"The only authority granted to employers under the ordinance is the authority to
refuse to hire an individual who fails to provide the documentation, required by
federal law, showing employment status," Weber wrote in his ruling, which was
released late Thursday.

That rationale contradicts U.S. District Judge James Munley, who in July ruled
that nearly every aspect of Hazleton's employment ordinance was improper. The
ordinance is virtually identical to Valley Park's.

After the Hazleton ruling, opponents of the anti-illegal immigration ordinance
argued that Munley's decision would likely have a chilling effect on cities with
similar measures.

"Now you have two diametrically opposed decisions from the federal courts,"
Kobach said.

Hazleton has appealed the ruling against it, but it's unclear whether the groups
suing Valley Park will do the same.

"We have not made a decision on that," said Anthony Rothert, an ACLU attorney,
who called Weber's decision "real outlier from all the other decisions."

Valley Park Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker pushed for the city's immigration
ordinances, much to the dismay of some residents who said he had spent too much
money defending the measures.

Reached Friday, Whitteaker said that he was happy with the ruling and that
"justice does prevail."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Where candidates stand on key issues

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 1642 words


DEMOCRATS

Hillary Clinton

HEALTH CARE

Require large employers to provide insurance or to contribute to cost of
coverage; require all Americans to buy health insurance; provide tax credits for
families and small businesses to help cover the cost of insurance; expand
Medicaid and state children's health insurance programs; bar insurance companies
from denying insurance based on a pre-existing condition, age or other factors.

IRAQ WAR

DECISION TO GO TO WAR:

Voted for war, now opposed

TROOP INCREASE: Opposed

TROOP WITHDRAWAL:

Supports phased withdrawal

IMMIGRATION

THE BORDER:

Employ technology to reduce unauthorized crossings.

CITIZENSHIP:

Allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship.

EMPLOYMENT:

Prohibit guest-worker programs. Increase enforcement of laws barring companies
from hiring illegal immigrants. Create an information system for prospective
employers.

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Create a $50 billion fund to invest in green industries, make research tax
credit permanent.

TAXES:

Repeal Bush tax cuts, expand middle-class tax breaks and college tax credits.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Create $1 billion fund to help borrowers avoid foreclosure, establish 90-day
moratorium on foreclosures and freeze adjustable rates.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Backs stricter enforcement of labor and environmental rules in foreign trade
agreements.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

Yes

EDUCATION:

$10 billion for universal preschool. Replace No Child Left Behind law. $10,000
higher-education scholarships per year of national service.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

Yes

GLOBAL WARMING

$150 billion, 10-year energy package for new fuel sources; backed stringent caps
on greenhouse gas emissions.

---

Barack Obama

HEALTH CARE:

Require all employers to contribute toward health coverage for their workers or
toward the cost of a public plan; mandate that all children have health
insurance; expand eligibility for Medicaid and SCHIP; create a public insurance
program for those who don't qualify for SCHIP or Medicaid.

IRAQ WAR:

DECISION TO GO TO WAR: Opposed

TROOP INCREASE: Opposed

TROOP WITHDRAWAL: Supports phased withdrawal

IMMIGRATION:

THE BORDER:

Hire more border guards, employ technology and build more "infrastructure."

CITIZENSHIP:

Allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship after passing background checks,
paying fines and having their cases reviewed after pending applications by legal
immigrants.

EMPLOYMENT:

Increase enforcement against companies that hire illegal immigrants, although he
considers raids upon suspect workplaces "ineffective."

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Increase job training and invest $150 billion over 10 years in clean industries.

TAXES:

Repeal Bush tax cuts, create a $1,000-per-family middle-class tax cut, offer
credits toward college tuition, increase capital gains tax on high earners.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Create fund to help at-risk borrowers avoid foreclosure and seek tougher
mortgage fraud laws.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Stricter enforcement of existing trade deals, more help for those who lose jobs
to overseas competitors.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

Yes

$18 billion plan for preschool, teacher pay, $4,000 college tax credit for
community service.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

Yes

GLOBAL WARMING:

$150 billion, 10-year program for "climate friendly" energy supplies, favors
stringent caps on greenhouse gas emissions.

---

REPUBLICANS

Mike Huckabee

HEALTH CARE:

Make health insurance tax-deductible for individuals and families; give tax
credits to low-income families; tort reform; expand health savings accounts.

IRAQ WAR:

DECISION TO GO TO WAR: Supported

TROOP INCREASE: Supports

TROOP WITHDRAWAL: Against a timetable for withdrawal

IMMIGRATION:

THE BORDER:

Build a fence with a surveillance system along the border with Mexico by 2010.
Hire more border agents.

CITIZENSHIP:

Require illegal immigrants to leave within 120 days and to apply for citizenship
from their home countries.

EMPLOYMENT:

Require verification of citizenship as a condition of employment. Impose steep
fines for companies that violate the law.

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Focus on fair trade and lower taxes to drive growth of U.S. companies.

TAXES:

Replace income and investment taxes with 23 percent national sales tax.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Has warned of a "chilling effect" on lending if government steps in, supports
free-market solutions.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Supports "fair trade" and says his "fair tax" plan would make U.S.-made goods
more competitive in the global marketplace.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

No

Give states more authority to run education.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

No

GLOBAL WARMING:

Supports increase to 35 mpg fuel efficiency standard by 2020, and emission caps.

---

John McCain

HEALTH CARE:

Provide a $2,500 tax credit for individuals and $5,000 for families to pay for
insurance. Allow people to purchase insurance across state lines and to make
insurance more portable between jobs; allow individuals to purchase insurance
through trade associations, churches or other organizations.

IRAQ WAR:

DECISION TO GO TO WAR:

Supported

TROOP INCREASE: Supports

TROOP WITHDRAWAL: Against a timetable for withdrawal

IMMIGRATION:

THE BORDER:

Build more fence and hire more patrol agents.

CITIZENSHIP:

Grant temporary status to most illegal immigrants and allow them to apply for
citizenship after paying fines and passing background checks.

EMPLOYMENT:

Permit a temporary worker program. Enforce laws against hiring illegal
immigrants.

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Would lower corporate taxes and expand global trade to drive economic growth and
create jobs.

TAXES:

Opposed Bush tax cuts but now backs them, would repeal alternative minimum tax
and require more votes in Congress to raise taxes.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Supports a voluntary plan to freeze interest rates for at-risk borrowers, has
said he would consider stronger government intervention.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Would lower barriers to new trade deals and focus unemployment assistance on
retraining workers for new jobs.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

No

EDUCATION:

Vouchers for school choice, more community-college aid.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

Yes

GLOBAL WARMING:

Led Senate effort to cap greenhouse gas emissions; favors tougher fuel
efficiency.

---

Ron Paul

HEALTH CARE:

Make all medical expenses tax-deductible; eliminate any federal regulations that
discourage small businesses from offering health insurance; expand health
savings accounts; give doctors the right to collectively negotiate with
insurance companies; allow nurses and pharmacists to provide more health
services.

IRAQ WAR:

DECISION TO GO TO WAR: Opposed

TROOP INCREASE: Opposes

TROOP WITHDRAWAL: Withdraw immediately

IMMIGRATION:

THE BORDER:

"Physically secure" the border.

CITIZENSHIP:

Deport illegal immigrants and offer them no special avenue toward citizenship.
End the automatic citizenship of children born here to illegal immigrants.

EMPLOYMENT:

Abolish the NAFTA trade agreement.

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Would lower taxes and government spending and put more money in the hands of
businesses and individuals.

TAXES:

Supports lower taxes across the board, and lower government spending. Would end
income taxes on tips and has discussed abolishing the IRS.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Says the foreclosure crisis is a symptom of broader monetary policies that
encourage excessive lending and inflation.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Generally opposes free trade treaties such as NAFTA and the World Trade
Organization that "infringe upon the freedom and independence" of the U.S.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

No

EDUCATION:

Would abolish the Department of Education. Has introduced or sponsored bills
that would allow a $5,000 tax credit per student, per year, adjustable for
inflation; a $3,000 a year tax credit for full-time elementary and secondary
school teachers; a full tax deduction for undergraduate college tuition,
interest on qualfied student loans and reasonable living expenses.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

No

GLOBAL WARMING:

Advocates efforts to reduce carbon emissions.

---

Mitt Romney

HEALTH CARE:

Encourage states to reduce insurance regulations; make all medical expenses
tax-deductible; push for tort reform; give states flexibility to spend Medicaid
funds in whatever way they want.

IRAQ WAR:

DECISION TO GO TO WAR: Supported

TROOP INCREASE: Supports

TROOP WITHDRAWAL: Against a timetable for withdrawal

IMMIGRATION:

THE BORDER:

Build a fence along the border with Mexico. Require noncitizens to carry
tamper-proof ID cards.

CITIZENSHIP:

Prohibit any "special pathway" for citizenship to anyone who is in the country
illegally. Recruit skilled workers from other countries and allow them to apply
for citizenship.

EMPLOYMENT:

Increase penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants. Set up a national
database for employers to verify the status of job applicants.

ECONOMY:

JOB CREATION:

Would reduce corporate tax rate to 20 percent and make research and development
tax credit permanent.

TAXES:

Tax breaks to those earnings less than $200,000, eliminate tax on capital gains,
interest and dividends for most, "patch" the alternative minimum tax and end the
estate tax.

MORTGAGE CRISIS:

Would expand counseling programs and help at-risk households get refinancing,
supports voluntary rate freeze.

FOREIGN TRADE:

Supports open markets and would lower corporate tax rate to 20 percent to make
U.S.-based companies more competitive.

ABORTION:

SUPPORT ABORTION RIGHTS?

No

EDUCATION:

Supports school choice and No Child Left Behind law.

STEM CELL RESEARCH:

RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON FEDERAL FINANCING?

Apparently, no. As governor, tried to stop legislation that encouraged expanded
embryonic stem cell research of the kind opposed by Bush.

GLOBAL WARMING:

Says tougher mileage standards are a burden on automakers. Opposes mandatory
caps on greenhouse gases unless other countries take similar steps. Says answer
is to free the country from dependence on foreign oil.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Hillary Clinton    PHOTO - Barack Obama    PHOTO - Mike Huckabee
PHOTO - John McCain    PHOTO - Ron Paul    PHOTO - Mitt Romney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 8, 2008 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Prosecutors drop race-related charge Incident involved quarrel over illegal
immigration.

BYLINE: By Shane Anthony ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: St. Charles


Prosecutors have dropped an assault charge against a St. Charles man whose
homemade signs decrying illegal immigration sparked a dispute with a man who
owns a business near his house.

Joseph R. Buehrle, 53, was charged in April with assault motivated by race after
a confrontation with Al Gonzalez, who runs DOTec Engineering. The business is
less than a block away from Buehrle's home on Perry Street. Police had said
Buehrle was alleged to have invited Gonzalez to step on his property so he could
shoot him.

First assistant prosecutor John DeVouton said that after reviewing evidence,
prosecutors decided earlier this week to drop the charge because Buehrle had
said he would shoot Gonzalez if he stepped on his property rather than inviting
him. They sent a letter to Buehrle saying they could reconsider charges if there
is any more trouble between the men.

Neither Buehrle nor Gonzalez could be reached for comment Thursday.

Buehrle's attorney, James K. Carmichael, said dropping the charges was the right
move.

"I believe that was the appropriate outcome, and it should never have been
filed," Carmichael said.

Buehrle drew attention with handmade signs tacked to his home that condemned
illegal immigration. Some included profanity, and there was a dispute as to
whether some signs referred to Gonzalez or former U.S. Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales.

Carmichael said Buehrle has not displayed signs for some time now at his
direction. He said the letter from the prosecutor's office said Buehrle is free
to post signs as long as they do not target Gonzalez or violate any laws.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Standing side by side Hispanics in Noel, Mo. | A national issue, a local concern

BYLINE: By Phillip O'Connor ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1548 words

DATELINE: noel, Mo.


Esmerelda Gamino stands behind the counter at Rosa's Mexican Store and chats in
Spanish with customers who come in search of their favorite tortillas, peppers
or hot sauce.

Bright-colored piñatas dangle from the ceiling, a dozen different tequilas
garner prominent shelf space, and three different Spanish-language newspapers
rest in a rack next to the front door.

Ask Gamino what impact a crackdown on illegal immigration would have on the
eight-year-old family-owned business and the native of Mexico doesn't hesitate:

"We would have to close down,'' she says. "We are nothing without the Hispanic
community. I don't think we could survive."

Some community leaders wonder whether Noel could either.

Although Hispanics make up less than 3 percent of Missouri's population, leaders
in Noel estimate that more than half of the town's 1,500 residents hail from
south of the border. No one knows for sure how many are here illegally. Some
estimate at least half. It's a question rarely asked.

In years past, Missouri's small Hispanic population made the state an
afterthought in the national debate over what to do with an estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States. But recent talk of tougher
enforcement, both from Washington and Jefferson City, has many in this
once-fading resort town along the banks of the Elk River paying close attention.

Foreign workers flooded into this rural region over the past 20 years, drawn in
large part by corporate poultry processing that transformed this once nearly
all-white enclave into one of Missouri's more racially mixed communities.

The Hispanic influx swelled school enrollment, reinvigorated religious
congregations and spurred a local development boom. Along Main Street, Sosa's
Hair Dressing, a Mexican market and storefront Hispanic churches now stand
side-by-side with the local cafe, bank and post office. Hispanics are buying
homes, relocating relatives and establishing roots in the community.

"If all of a sudden you lose that, it would be hurtful," said Mayor Paul
Gardner, as he waited on customers at his sandwich shop. "It would be extremely
hurtful."

Maybe even more painful, Gardner and others here say, is that it would mean the
loss of some of the town's best citizens.

'Great people'

One obvious victim of a crackdown would be the city's biggest corporate
benefactor - the Tyson poultry plant on the edge of town. Tyson provides about
10 percent of the town's $600,000 annual budget, free sewage treatment for many
residents, and it helps underwrite many community events, Gardner said.

About 40 percent of the 1,000-member workforce is Hispanic. Although company
officials said they have zero tolerance for illegal workers, town leaders say
it's no secret that many who work at the plant do so in violation of immigration
laws. And, they say, any kind of rigorous immigration enforcement would lead
many who are here legally to accompany home family members who are not.

The prevailing belief around Noel is that Tyson would struggle to find Americans
willing to fill the difficult production and maintenance jobs that pay from
$8.35 to $14.30 an hour.

Although a few "old timers" may object to the influx of Hispanics and "would
jump up and down with joy" if the plant closed, Gardner said, the loss "would be
devastating" economically.

Gary Poynor, 64, grew up in Noel and admits he's had a hard time adjusting to
the new residents, particularly the language barrier.

"A group of them will be standing outside the grocery, I don't know if they're
talking about me or what," said Poynor, who owns a resort and canoe rental
business. "I just don't like that."

Poynor agreed that losing the Hispanic community would cause Noel's economy to
suffer - for a while. "There would be a gap, a hole, that we would slowly have
to fill back in some way."

At Nativity of Our Lord Catholic Church, such a hole might be a death knell.

Sister Adelida Esquivel estimates as much as 80 percent of the church's
overwhelmingly Hispanic congregation is in the country illegally. Without those
parishioners, she says with certainty, the 36-year-old church would close. In
her year and a half in the parish, the church has averaged about eight baptisms
a month, she said. All were Hispanic.

Recently stepped up immigration enforcement in neighboring states is taking a
toll on parish life, she said. When Arkansas and Oklahoma enacted tougher laws,
several people stopped coming to church functions, she said.

Esquivel, who was born in the United States, said she had been stopped in
Arkansas recently and asked whether she was in the country legally.

"People are scared," she said.

Deputy Sheriff Mike LeSueur senses that fear as he cruises Noel and the rest of
McDonald County. These days, he sees fewer of the large outdoor gatherings where
Hispanic men drank beer and roasted a goat over an open fire. Often, they would
invite him to stop for a slice of meat.

"They've gone underground," LeSueur said.

To him, that's a shame.

LeSueur said he considers the Hispanic migration to the area "an upgrade of the
gene pool."

"I have no trouble with them," LeSueur said as he munched on a plate of chicken
wings in the mayor's sandwich shop. "They're great people, friendly people."

He pointed out that of the 40 or 50 people in the county jail on any given day,
maybe three or four are Hispanic.

"The problem doesn't come from the Hispanics," LeSueur said. "It comes from a
lack of understanding among the whites."

'Desire to achieve'

At Noel Elementary, the staff works hard to bridge any such misunderstandings,
Principal Nick Nichols said. On a recent day, white and brown students mingle at
cafeteria tables, chattering between bites of chicken nuggets.

On a nearby wall, two enlarged copies of the school's mission statement are
displayed, one in English, the other in Spanish.

Nichols is unsure how many of school's 560 students or their parents are here
illegally, but he figures the number is significant. Some of the children are
American citizens, the second generation of their family to move through the
school. He says if the Tyson plant shuts down, enrollment would drop by at least
25 percent.

Despite their poverty and often unstable home lives, Nichols said, the
immigrants bring "a desire to achieve that I don't always see with kids raised
here in the hills."

"They want to get ahead," Nichols said. "They want to be successful."

He said he knew of cases in which deported parents had their school-age children
taken in by other Hispanics in Noel. That way, the children could continue their
education in the United States.

"We need to find some course that allows people to live legally in this country
and to pursue a way of life that is everybody's dream," Nichols said. "We cannot
say, 'Everybody go home.' It's not going to work. We've allowed them to come
here. ... What do you tell a family who has seven citizens and two who are not?"

School is one of the few places where whites and Hispanics mix with ease. The
adults, for the most part, move in separate worlds. Even some of the churches
have separate facilities for whites and Hispanics.

On a recent afternoon, a group of seven men and women gathered for an English
lesson. They asked that their names not be used out of fear they would be
arrested. All said they were in the country illegally and had used false
identification they easily purchased to get jobs at the Tyson plant.

Although they follow the immigration debate, they say nothing will stop people
without jobs from seeking a better life. Some said they had been deported, only
to return.

"There's much more opportunity here," one said.

Given a choice, all said they would rather stay in Noel than return home. They
say most people in Noel are friendly, though they acknowledge there is a gulf
between Hispanics and whites.

"It's not so much what they're saying," one of them said. "It's the expression
on their face."

The mayor, who is married to a woman who entered the country illegally but is
now a naturalized citizen, is optimistic the two cultures can assimilate.

"We're looking another 10 or 15 years and a third or fourth generation, and
there probably won't be any problems," he said.

Brent Beauford thinks Noel has come a long way from years ago when a neighbor
complained when they saw his son playing basketball with Hispanic kids. Beauford
is a landlord who serves on the Noel city council. He said he would hate to see
the Hispanics go.

"They've always treated me well, and with respect, a lot more than some
American-born citizens," Beauford said, as he waited in the mayor's sandwich
shop for his lunch order. "You saw hard-working people find a place to rent and
get into our system here and then eventually buy homes."

He compared that to some in the local community.

"You have people who are riding the system, don't show up to their job on time,"
Beauford said. "If they lose their job, they'll go somewhere else and get on a
government handout. They don't want to work."

Beauford said it would be unfair now to pursue people who for years have been
allowed to work, have children and build a life here.

And, he said, it would be unfair to the town itself.

"We need to deal with it," Beauford said, "but we need to deal with it in a way
that doesn't impact our situation or their situation and in some way that's
just."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC; MAP
 PHOTO - At the schools - Daniel Salas (left) and Stacey Warren, both 16, say
race  is not an issue for them, though it is for some fellow students. "The
Mexican girls don't want white girls with their boys," Warren said.  Photos by
Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - At the hair salon - Marlene Sosa, 22, a
U.S. citizen of Mexican heritage, cuts the hair of Noel resident Rudy Faulkner,
58, at her shop on Main Street. Sosa, who is from Texas, has been operating the
shop for 5 months.  Photos by Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - At the
churches -  After a short devotional service for the Noel Church of the
Nazarene, Hispanic children play in the Noel Elementary School gym Thursday
night. Hispanic families are buying homes, relocating relatives and establishing
roots in the community.  Photos by Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch   PHOTO - In the
community -  Freda Howerton (center), 67, a resident of Noel off and on since
1952, chats with friends at Kathy's Kountry Kitchen on Main Street. She says
that if illegal immigrants "just don't want to fall in line with the rules of
the United States ... the way our constitution says, then I think they should be
... sent back." Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch  GRAPHIC - GROWTH IN NOEL
POST-DISPATCH  MAP - NOEL POST-DISPATCH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ANALYSIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

The NAFTA Highway Blues Kansas City, capital of Canameximerica

BYLINE: KEVIN HORRIGAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 855 words


Julie L. Myers stopped by the office the other day. She is the Deputy Director
of Homeland Security for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the ICE queen, if
you will. Among other things, her department is in charge of deporting
undocumented immigrants.

If you have listened to much of the Republican presidential debates or to much
talk radio, you've found agreement that she's not deporting enough of them.
There are an estimated 12 million such people in the country, and the number is
growing.

This does not include fake illegal immigrants, such as white ICE employees
dressed up in dreadlocks and dark make-up. Ms. Myers got in hot water last week
after CNN obtained photographs of a Halloween Party last October wherein Ms.
Myers was one of the judges awarding a "most original costume" prize to an ICE
worker so disguised. She explained she didn't know it was make-up.

So I asked her (excluding fake illegal immigrants) how much it would cost to do
as many of the more vocal opponents to illegal immigration suggest: Round them
all up and ship 'em back where they came from.

"My boss [DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff] has estimated $94 billion, based on
the figure of 12 million here illegally," she said.

That's an average of $7,833 per person, based on a cost of $100 a day to keep
someone in detention, an average length of detention of 32 days and an average
of $1,000 in transportation costs. Plus personnel costs. Lots of personnel
costs.

When you figure ICE deported 276,000 people last year, and you're looking at
getting rid of 43 times that number in one swell foop, you're going to need a
lot more personnel, not to mention a lot more detention space. But maybe you can
get a group discount on air fares, or charter a bunch of buses.

Bottom line: Most of them aren't going anywhere. Which, of course, is all part
of the plot.

Surely you've heard about the plot. Well, maybe not. They're keeping it pretty
hush-hush, although you'd think someone would notice if a 3,000 mile long,
quarter-mile-wide concrete slab of highway, rail lines and pipelines actually
was being built. The idea of the plot is to turn the United States, Mexico and
Canada into one tri-lateral trading entity, rushing Chinese goods from Mexico's
Pacific Ocean deepwater port of Lázaro Cárdenas to a giant customs station in
Kansas City and thence to Wal-Marts across the nation and on to Toronto and
points north.

I know this is true because I read about it in a newsletter from Rep. Ron Paul,
R-Pluto. "The ultimate goal is not simply a superhighway, but an integrated
North American Union - complete with a currency, a cross-national bureaucracy
and virtually borderless travel within the union," Dr. Paul wrote. "Like the
European Union, a North American Union would represent another step toward the
abolition of national sovereignty altogether."

Think about it. One day you wake up, and there's no need to deport illegal
Mexican immigrants, because we're all one big happy North American family,
Canameximericans, speaking Spanglish and saying "eh" at the end of our
sentences, eating frijoles and round bacon while we watch hockey games and bull
fights and listen to Celine Dion sing Tejano songs.

Kansas City is the key to it all.

Business interests there actually have created a concept called the Kansas City
SmartPort, which suggests that rail, highway and air cargo all could intersect
at Kansas City. It's not much more than a gleam in the Greater Kansas City
Chamber of Commerce's eye at this point, but once the NAFTA Superhighway is
built, Kansas City would become the hub of Canameximerica.

The two other components of the NAFTA Superhighway that actually exist are the
port at Lázaro Cárdenas, which can load and unload ships too big for the Panama
Canal - and do it without union longshoremen - and the Trans-Texas Corridor, a
boondoggle the size of Texas.

In 2006, the Texas Department of Transportation signed a $3.5 million planning
deal with Cintra-Zachry, a consortium of two construction firms that proposes a
public-private system of super-duper highways across Texas. It is in its
earliest planning stages, but the first component would run parallel to
Interstate 35 from Laredo on the Mexican border to Oklahoma.

There it could join I-35 through Oklahoma and Kansas and into - you guessed it -
Kansas City. Or, depending on how the Canameximerica plan is coming along, it
could be widened into a true NAFTA superhighway along I-29 into Canada.

It takes a great deal of . . . shall we say, "insight". . . to put together a
deepwater Mexican port, a Texas boondoggle and a midwestern chamber of commerce
PR campaign and come up with the end of American sovereignty. But given that Dr.
Paul has raised more than $28 million for his campaign for the GOP presidential
nomination - three times more than former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee has raised
for his - his supporters have plenty of insight.

Here's another clue: That woman Julie Myers, the one who's in charge of
deporting undocumented immigrants? Guess where she was born? Guess where her
husband is the U.S. Attorney? Kansas City, that's where. You think that's just a
coincidence?

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - REP. RON PAUL, R-TEXAS AP  PHOTO - "THE SCOUT" STANDS GUARD ON A KNOLL
OVERLOOOKING DOWNTOWN KANSAS CITY.  TOM UHLENBROCK | POST-DISPATCH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Employers squirm

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 625 words


Missouri legislators last week learned what federal immigration agents have
known for years: It's tough to crack down on illegal immigrants without stepping
on the delicate toes of legitimate employers.

The Legislature is considering several bills (Senate Bills 751, 858, 927, 1186
and 1255) that would crack down in various ways on illegal immigrants and the
employers who hire them. Under the proposed bills, business licenses could be
revoked. One bill would make it a misdemeanor for employers to accept state
loans or tax breaks while employing illegal immigrants. Companies could be fined
$25,000 for each illegal immigrant used on state projects. State labor officials
would go hunting for illegal immigrants on job sites.

That brought howls from employers, led by the state construction contractors
lobby. They say that with false IDs commonly available. Good employers worry
that they may be falsely accused. What's more, if penalties are too draconian,
employers may avoid hiring any applicant with brown skin or foreign accents,
citizens or not.

Still it's very hard to criminally convict employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants, unless they hire them by the dozens or an insider confesses. Their
personnel offices can pull out copies of phony green cards and U.S. birth
certificates, and they all look legitimate.

In other words, there's no easy solution.

Some of the bills under consideration would let employers off the hook if they
participate in the Department of Homeland Security's E-Verify system. That
Internet-based system combines federal immigration and U.S. Social Security
records. Employers can punch in an applicant's data and get an answer in
seconds.

But E-Verify has accuracy problems. It rejects 10 percent of naturalized
citizens, according to the National Immigration Law Center. Citizens who change
their names also are at risk, often because they failed to notify Social
Security offices after marriage or divorce. The Social Security Administration
estimates that 4 percent of its records have errors.

Homeland Security says E-Verify rejects 7 percent of the names submitted. Of
those, employers contest only 1 percent. That could indicate either that the
system is spotting lots of illegal immigrants, or that employers simply are
turning down legal citizens for jobs rather than hassle with the government.

E-Verify also is easy to fool. Illegal immigrants can game the system by using
the name and Social Security number of a real citizen. Some say the system
encourages identity theft.

Those problems led the Illinois legislature last year to forbid employers from
using E-Verify. That ban is on hold while Homeland Security seeks to overturn it
in court.

Immigration officials are trying to improve the system. They are adding photos
from immigration records so that employers can compare the picture with the
applicant standing in front of them. Photos from state drivers licenses may come
next.

Eventually, E-Verify may become a reliable tool for ferreting out illegal
immigrants in the work force. But it's not there yet. In the meantime, why is
the state bothering with a relatively minor problem that properly belongs to the
federal government?

"The federal government is not getting it done. That leaves it to the states"
says state Sen. Jason Crowell, R-Cape Girardeau, who chairs the committee
considering immigration bills.

But after hearing complaints from business, legislators are busy extracting the
teeth from the bills. For instance, the big fines are gone from the latest
versions.

As we've said before, individual states can't solve the immigration mess. Until
Washington develops a reliable system for telling legal immigrants from illegal
ones, the state's clumsy efforts only will make things worse.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

House bill would bar illegal immigrants No admission o Schools would have to
certify enrollments before getting state funding.

BYLINE: By Lee Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Public colleges and universities would be barred from enrolling illegal
immigrants under a bill given first-round approval Wednesday by the House.

The proposal would require colleges to certify that they have not knowingly
enrolled illegal immigrants before they can receive state money.

The bill's sponsor, Rep. Jerry Nolte, R-Gladstone, said federal law already
barred illegal immigrants from attending public colleges.

"Our state-supported institutions should also be required to obey the law," he
said.

Several Democrats said the proposal was a divisive one that did not solve a real
problem.

House Minority Leader Paul LeVota, D-Independence, said the bill would not
address what he called the state's real immigration issue: businesses that hire
illegal immigrants.

"People don't come to the state of Missouri so they can go to college, they come
to work," he said. "This bill does nothing to solve these problems."

Nolte said he was simply protecting the rule of law: "We are doing something.
We're holding these institutions accountable."

The House still must vote on the measure once more before sending it to the
Senate. The bill is the first immigration proposal to be taken up for debate in
either chamber.

Under the bill, colleges would have to show their verification processes to
funding committees in the House and Senate. No specific penalty provisions are
outlined in the proposal, but lawmakers could withhold some of a college's
funding for violating the guidelines.

Nolte referred to previous testimony from the Missouri Community College
Association on a similar bill, which ultimately failed. Asked by legislators at
the time to estimate the number of illegal immigrants enrolled at community
colleges statewide, a representative from the association pegged the number at
roughly 200 - but also noted that was out of 200,000 total students.

On Wednesday, James Kellerman, executive director of the association, said in an
interview that colleges don't knowingly admit illegal immigrants and that it was
impossible to know for sure how many are in classes.

He pointed to Marie Gonzalez, who gained national attention when her parents
were deported in 2005 for not renewing their visas. The family had been living
in Jefferson City for more than 10 years, and she had graduated from an area
high school.

"Had she gone to one of our community colleges, we would have admitted her," he
said. "We wouldn't have had a clue of the circumstances."

Nolte said he was unable to get any concrete enrollment estimates from four-year
universities. He added that several colleges, including the University of
Missouri, had procedures in place that would satisfy the bill's requirements.

A 1996 federal law prohibits states from offering in-state tuition to illegal
immigrants unless they provide the same discount to residents from other states.

Ten states, however, have passed versions of the so-called DREAM act, which
gives in-state tuition to illegal immigrants who have resided in a state for a
certain number of years. Those states include four of Missouri's neighbors:
Illinois, Kansas, Nebraska and Oklahoma.

Legislators voted on the bill after rejecting an amendment from Rep. Ed
Wildberger, D-St. Joseph, that would have exempted community colleges.

"I'm trying to figure out why you want to punish children for their parents'
mistakes," he said in a terse exchange with Nolte. "They should at least have
the opportunity to go to community college."

The bill is HB1463.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PUBLIC COLLEGE FUNDING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

House easily approves bill to bar illegal immigrants at state colleges

BYLINE: By Lee Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


The House easily passed a bill Thursday barring Missouri colleges from enrolling
illegal immigrants, despite charged political debate before the vote.

The bill requires public colleges and universities to certify that they do not
knowingly enroll illegal immigrants before they can receive state money.

The bill, passed by a vote of 112-39, now goes to the Senate.

A sponsor, Rep. Jerry Nolte, R-Gladstone, said the bill would hold schools
accountable and was simply about following the law.

"I can assure you the people in this state understand the distinction between
legal and illegal," he said, noting that federal inaction on immigration caused
states to grapple with the issue.

Democrats said the bill could subject Hispanics to discrimination.

Rep. Maria Chapelle-Nadal, D-University City, said that the measure reminded her
of the Jim Crow laws and that it could "put brown people at the back of the
bus."

The bill says colleges would have to show their certification process to funding
committees in both the House and the Senate. Though the bill has no specific
penalties, legislators could withhold funding from non-compliant colleges.

Nolte said he had heard estimates of roughly 200 illegal immigrants at community
colleges; he said he had not received any figures from four-year schools.

James Kellerman, executive director of the Missouri Community College
Association, said that although illegal immigrants could be taking classes at
some colleges, schools didn't knowingly admit them.

As such, he said, the bill would have "not much at all" of an effect on
colleges.

Several Democrats charged that the measure was a form of race baiting.

"This approach to government is nothing more than hate-mongering," said Rep.
Jeff Roorda, D-Barnhart. "It's nothing more than creating wedge issues."

Nolte was visibly frustrated.

Democrats have "repeatedly used the words 'racism' and 'hate-monger,' and I
resent that," Nolte said. "I am not going to tolerate being told I'm putting
forth Jim Crow laws."

Later, he added: "Show me the part of the bill that talks about skin color."

Rep. Tim Flook, R-Liberty, said that illegal immigrants' going to college wasn't
a crisis, but that he would vote for the measure anyway.

"I don't support it with joy," he said. "It's not something to brag about."

Flook, the only Mexican-American member of the House, said he would continue to
push for a provision that would allow those petitioning for legal residency to
continue attending classes.

At the legislative session's mid-point, the college enrollment bill is the first
immigration bill to clear either chamber. After the vote, House Speaker Rod
Jetton, R-Marble Hill, was optimistic about passing legislators' other
immigration bills, which deal with law enforcement, employers and welfare
benefits.

---

VOTES BY ST. LOUIS-AREA LEGISLATORS:

Democrats voting yes: Ron Casey, Crystal City; Joe Fallert, Ste. Genevieve;
Michael Frame, Eureka; Belinda Harris, Hillsboro; Sam Komo, House Springs; J.C.
Kuessner, Eminence; Al Liese, Maryland Heights; Sam Page, Creve Coeur; Brad
Robinson, Bonne Terre; and Ed Schieffer, Troy.

Democrats voting no: Maria Chappelle-Nadal, University City; Michael Corcoran,
St. Ann; Bruce Darrough, Florissant; Michael Daus, St. Louis; Tony George,
Florissant; Esther Haywood, Bellerive; Ted Hoskins, Berkeley; Rodney Hubbard,
St. Louis; Connie Johnson, St. Louis; Jamilah Nasheed, St. Louis; Jeanette Mott
Oxford, St. Louis; Jeff Roorda, Barnhart; Sue Schoemehl, Oakville; Michael
Spreng, Florissant; Rachel Storch, St. Louis; Tom Villa, St. Louis; Michael
Vogt, Affton; Gina Walsh, Bellefontaine Neighbors; Juanita Head Walton, north
St. Louis County; Robin Wright-Jones, St. Louis; Pat Yaeger, south St. Louis
County; and Jake Zimmerman, Olivette.

Democrats not voting: Margaret Donnelly, DRichmond Heights; Tim Meadows,
D-Imperial; and Clint Zweifel, D-Florissant.

Republicans voting yes: Jim Avery, Crestwood; Walt Bivins, Mehlville; Jane
Cunningham, Chesterfield; Cynthia Davis, O'Fallon; Sally Faith, St. Charles;
Kathlyn Fares, Webster Groves; Doug Funderburk, St. Peters; Allen Icet,
Wildwood; Tim Jones, Eureka; Jim Lembke, Lemay; Scott Muschany, Frontenac; Brian
Nieves, Washington; Bob Onder, Lake Saint Louis; Chuck Portwood, Ballwin; Dwight
Scharnhorst, Valley Park; Charles Schlottach, Owensville; Vicki Schneider,
O'Fallon; Joe Smith, Weldon Spring; Neal St. Onge, Ballwin; Rick Stream,
Kirkwood; Mike Sutherland, Warrenton; Kevin Threlkeld, Washington; and Steven
Tilley, Perryville.

Republicans voting no: none.

The bill is HB1463.

---

---

Vote

STLtoday.com/news Should illegal immigrants be able to attend public colleges?
Vote in our poll.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2008



CORRECTION: Although Missouri House member Scott Muschany has listed his
residence in Frontenac, his home is actually within the boundaries of Huntleigh,
a nearby municipality.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 6, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Election keeps city in limelight Mayor Immigration ordinance, suit may derail
re-election bid. Opponent City has other issues with which to contend.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: valley park


This small city along the Meramec River has made news as far away as New York
and Los Angeles in the past couple of years.

Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker has led the way in the city's heavily publicized
efforts to rid itself of illegal immigrants, winning support of anti-illegal
immigration groups across the country while dividing constituents at home.

Gone are the days when Valley Park was simply known for its blue-collar roots
and the floodwater that had ravaged it every few years.

On Tuesday, voters will decide whether they want a new mayor, as well as make
their choices among three contested aldermanic races. Some candidates oppose the
city's tougher policies against illegal immigration; others have emphasized
different topics.

No matter what draws residents to the polls, their choices could dramatically
change the makeup of the Board of Aldermen and, ultimately, whether the city of
6,500 stays at the forefront of the illegal immigration debate.

Around town, campaign signs sprout from lawns, revealing the divisions between
neighbors and businesses.

Whitteaker has sent out a campaign flier in which opponent Grant Young is
accused of being recruited by the American Civil Liberties Union. Whitteaker
notes that the ACLU was one of the groups that sued the city over its illegal
immigration ordinances.

"They want to make an example out of me," the mayor writes. "If they are
successful, they will hold up my scalp as a warning."

Young, who owns Young's Restaurant and Ice Creamery, said he hasn't had contact
with the ACLU. "They have never even given me a phone call. This is not a
national conspiracy."

Many residents said that within Valley Park's borders, illegal immigration isn't
the most prominent issue on people's minds.

"I don't see how it pertains to us," said Tayna Biggs, who owns T.J.'s Wings
Family Pub and Grill along with her husband, Robert. "I think (Whitteaker) is a
good man. The aldermen and the mayor have been very supportive of our
restaurant."

In 2006, the mayor spearheaded the passage of ordinances that established fines
for businesses and landlords for hiring and renting to illegal immigrants. The
landlord provision was dropped after a legal challenge.

Meanwhile, a federal judge recently ruled that Valley Park can suspend the
permits of businesses who hire illegal immigrants.

Stephanie Reynolds rents a home to a family who says they are not in the country
legally. She is in a three-way aldermanic race for Ward 1 and is a plaintiff in
one of the lawsuits filed against the city over its illegal immigration
ordinances.

Reynolds said that the landlord law had put her in the impossible position of
trying to be an immigration agent.

"If the state and federal government can't figure out (how to regulate
immigration), how is a small municipality supposed to?" asked Reynolds, who is
running against Gil DeNormandie and Angela M. Turner.

DeNormandie, a dispatcher for the St. Louis County Parks Rangers, said he
supports the city's position on illegal immigration. Turner has focused more on
development issues.

In Ward 3, Alderman Michael Pennise is opposed by Russell Causey, who served as
alderman from 1998 to 2004. Both have emphasized their judgment and desire to
strengthen the community.

Martha Rodriguez, a retired nurse, is running against Alderman Mike White in
Ward 4. She said the city's anti-illegal immigration effort is bad city policy.

White, however, supported the aldermen's decision to toughen laws against those
who support people who are here illegally. He said he simply opposes any form of
unlawful activity, whether it involves prostitution, drugs or illegal
immigration.

"I believe that we tried to deal with an issue that was in our own backyard," he
said. "We did not build a $50 million levee to protect any illegal activity."

During an interview, Whitteaker wasn't quick to bring up the immigration issue.
Asked why residents should vote for him, he offered two words: "Leadership and
experience."

Whitteaker has been mayor since 2005 and has served the city for 14 years as
mayor or alderman. He points to the $3.8 million in grants for recreational
trails and street renovations the city has received since he's been mayor.

As to the national attention the city has received over illegal immigration,
Whitteaker said it was never his intention to put the city or himself in the
limelight. "It was just something that happened," he said.

But resident Philip Soto said he can't see any possible motivation other than
national attention for the city to continue its policies and legal defense.

Soto has combed through the city's legal bills and estimates that it has spent
about $250,000 defending the laws. Valley Park's budget is roughly $2.7 million.

Soto said the city isn't making a meaningful contribution to the illegal
immigration issue. "It's as if the ant is trying to body slam the elephant," he
said.

Whitteaker said the town has spent about $120,000 over a two-year period on
attorney Kris Kobach, who also is defending Hazelton, Pa., in a lawsuit that
challenges an ordinance similar to Valley Park's. The mayor said he does not
know how much Valley Park has paid city attorney Eric Martin for legal work on
the ordinances, though Whitteaker noted the city has received about $40,000 in
donations for legal expenses.

Some say that a couple of weeks ago, Whitteaker couldn't have been in better
position ahead of the election. The Meramec River flooded several communities,
but the mayor assured nervous residents that Valley Park's levee - completed in
2005 - would hold.

And it did.

A week later, news of a lawsuit from the mayor's former secretary surfaced.
Roxanne Ruppel claimed that she and Whitteaker had an affair and that she was
fired because of it. The mayor, who is married, declined to comment on the
allegations.

Young, the mayor's opponent, has focused his campaign more on eminent domain
than on immigration. He decided to run after the city announced plans to form a
redevelopment corporation. He feared that it might mean the city would attempt
to seize private property of local businesses. Of the illegal immigration issue,
Young said the city can't afford the legal battle to defend its ordinances.

As he stood behind the counter at his restaurant Thursday afternoon, Young
lamented that someone had stolen 43 of his election signs. Some that weren't
stolen had been spray painted.

"They know that if I win, things down here will be different," Young said.

---

GET READY elections.stltoday.com/voter Before Tuesday's balloting, get complete
information on candidates and issues

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Valley Park

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Whitteaker  PHOTO - Young

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Restaurant owner is charged with fraud

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


The co-owner of a restaurant in Kirksville and six others are accused in a
scheme to allegedly use fraudulent Social Security numbers so illegal immigrants
could work at the restaurant.

U.S. Attorney Catherine Hanaway announced the federal indictments Friday. Among
those accused is Neftali Lopez, 33, of El Vaquero restaurant.

The indictment alleges that Lopez hired his brother-in-law and five others to
work at the restaurant, even though he knew they were in the United States
illegally. He allegedly instructed the employees to obtain false Social Security
cards and resident alien cards.

All are accused of conspiracy to defraud, identity theft and Social Security
fraud. Neftali Lopez and Zoraida Lopez are also charged with harboring illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

House bill puts citizenship as condition for aid

BYLINE: By Chris Blank The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


To get public benefits such as food stamps or housing assistance in Missouri,
people would have to prove they are U.S. citizens or legally in the country
under legislation endorsed by the House.

Those who couldn't prove that they lived legally in the United State could
continue getting aid for 90 days. But after that, they would be reported to
federal immigration authorities if they could not prove they were here legally.

Rep. Ed Emery said Missouri residents shouldn't have to pay taxes so illegal
immigrants could get help.

"If they're here illegally, they've just gotten 90 days of services from your
constituents. I don't expect mine to pay for it," Emery, R-Lamar, told his House
colleagues.

But Democratic critics said that some illegal immigrants would still need help
and that making them ineligible for public benefits would increase pressure on
groups that tried to fill the gap.

"This bill will probably save the state money on the one hand, but it will
probably be very costly for our schools and other institutions that take care of
these children," said Rep. Mike Daus, D-St. Louis.

Democrats said that also could fall to private charities.

The Pew Hispanic Center, based in Washington, estimates from U.S. census data
that 35,000 to 65,000 illegal immigrants live in Missouri - less than 1 percent
of the 12 million people estimated to be in the United States illegally.

Federal law makes illegal immigrants ineligible for many public benefits, but
they can still get a K-12 education, emergency health care, disaster relief,
immunizations and crisis counseling. Emery's bill wouldn't block that.

The bill given initial House approval Wednesday is one of several bills that
lawmakers have considered to add restrictions on illegal immigrants, those who
employ them and the schools that educate them.

Other legislation requires the Missouri State Highway Patrol to get special
federal immigration training and public employers to use the E-Verify database
to check employees' immigration status. Another bill would take away state
grants from cities that adopt "sanctuary" policies and refuse to cooperate with
immigration authorities.

A Senate committee also considered on Wednesday afternoon a House-passed measure
that would require all the state's public colleges and universities to certify
they do not knowingly enroll any illegal immigrants.

Rep. Jerry Nolte said it didn't make sense for illegal immigrants to go to
college, because they couldn't be legally employed.

"While education in and of itself has value for the person, I think we have to
recognize the fact that the primary reason many people get college educations is
for employment," said Nolte, R-Gladstone.

The Senate, in its immigration legislation, passed a less restrictive version of
that idea that would allow illegal immigrants born before Aug. 28, 2008, who
spend at least three semesters in a Missouri high school to attend a public
college, as long as they pay out-of-state tuition.

Supporters of that bill said it was a compromise designed to help children
already living in Missouri who were brought into the country illegally with
their parents.

What to do with those who were young children when their parents brought them
into the United States illegally has been a thorny issue.

A 1996 federal law prohibits states from offering resident college tuition rates
to students illegally present in the United States unless all U.S. citizens are
eligible for the same tuition breaks. But it doesn't outright bar them from
enrolling.

At least 10 states have enacted laws offering in-state college tuition to
students illegally in the United States, including neighboring Illinois, Kansas,
Nebraska and Oklahoma.

Sen. Jason Crowell, who heads the Senate general laws committee that considered
the college enrollment ban, said he didn't like the Senate's limited ban on
enrolling in college.

Crowell, R-Cape Girardeau, said that young children generally didn't enroll in
college and that college-age people were old enough to be accountable for their
actions.

"Is a thief that steals food because he is hungry any less of a thief?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal traffic north from Mexico is declining U.S. crackdown along border, the
economy are called factors.

BYLINE: By Olga R. Rodriguez The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 618 words

DATELINE: SASABE, Mexico


The sandy streets of Sasabe are empty. Migrant smugglers have to hunt for
business at border-town shelters. Deported migrants give up after one try,
taking their government up on free bus rides home.

A U.S. crackdown is causing the longest and most significant drop in illegal
migration from Mexico since the Sept. 11 attacks. Officials say the U.S.
economic downturn, tighter security and a more perilous and expensive journey
are persuading many who try to sneak into the U.S. to give up sooner.

Border Patrol arrests are down 17 percent so far this year along the U.S.-Mexico
border after falling 20 percent all of last fiscal year and 8 percent the year
before that. While it's impossible to know how many people are crossing
illegally, the Border Patrol uses apprehensions to estimate the ebb and flow of
traffic.

The downturn in illegal immigration has created labor shortages throughout the
United States, and several states are considering temporary-worker programs,
especially in agricultural fields, where produce is going bad.

The number of returned migrants who try again through the heavily traveled
desert corridor west of Sasabe has dropped from 80 percent to 40 percent since
January, said Border Patrol spokesman Jose Gonzalez. Agents keep fingerprints on
all those apprehended and can determine multiple offenders, even if they give
false names.

U.S. authorities attribute the drop to tighter security and a new program in the
Tucson, Ariz., sector that has prosecuted more than 3,000 migrants for crossing
illegally since it started in January. They face jail sentences from a few days
to six months.

But none of the migrants interviewed by The Associated Press knew about the new
prosecution program. Those on their way home said the main deterrents were
tougher security and the dangers of the desert, including bandits who rob and
even rape migrants on both sides of the border.

The U.S. Border Patrol has added 200 officers since last year to the Tucson
sector, and a total of 3,000 agents now search the vast desert for illegal
migrants by truck, horse, ATV and helicopter. They now have four drones scanning
for drug and migrant smugglers, as well as two newly built 12-foot walls with
steel posts near Nogales and in Sasabe.

At the same time, Mexican drug smugglers have started to collect fees for access
to the main routes into Arizona.

As a result, Grupo Beta, the Mexican government's migrant rescue group, has seen
a 257 percent increase in the number of people seeking discounted bus tickets
home this year. So far, 2,500 people in Nogales and Sasabe asked for the tickets
this year, while Grupo Beta had only 700 requests in all of 2007.

"We can't keep up with so many people who are heading back," said Enrique
Enriquez, coordinator for Grupo Beta in Nogales. He said his rescuers spend the
day shuttling migrants to a bus station.

Maria Fernandez, 25, made her first crossing with her husband after both were
laid off from a department store in Puebla state. Friends in New York offered to
help them find work. First they traveled to Altar, a farming town 70 miles south
of Sasabe, a major gathering point for those heading to Arizona.

There, they had to pay about $50 so drug smugglers would allow them to travel
the bumpy road north, and another $30 for a van that took them and another 25
migrants to Sasabe.

They walked for four nights through the mesquite-covered desert, where they were
robbed once. They hid from Border Patrol agents at least five times. But when
they reached the highway where they would meet their next ride, they were
spotted by a helicopter.

Now, Fernandez was waiting in Nogales for her husband to be deported, as she had
been.

"I won't try again," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Change in immigration bill could endanger legislation House may object to Senate
provision to penalize employers who falsely classify workers as contractors.

BYLINE: By Lee Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


The state Senate on Tuesday added a provision to a broad immigration bill that
would crack down on employers who falsely classify their workers, potentially
jeopardizing legislators' efforts to pass an immigration measure this session.

The provision adds penalties for employers who misclassify workers as
"contractors." By doing that, employers don't have to withhold taxes.

"This is for those employers that tell the illegal immigrant, 'Don't fill out
any forms, I'm just going to pay you cash,' " said Sen. Tim Green, D-Spanish
Lake, who offered the provision.

Bill sponsor Sen. Scott Rupp, R-Wentzville, said the provision would be
"radioactive" to House leaders, pleading for senators to reject the provision.

Despite the pleadings, the Senate added the provision in a resounding voice
vote.

Afterward, Rupp said efforts to pass the bill aren't dead.

"I would hope that they would do the right thing," he said of the House. "The
taxpayers want us to move an illegal immigration bill that has a strong employer
component."

Rupp said that if the Legislature doesn't pass an immigration bill cracking down
on employers who hire illegal workers, he would lobby Gov. Matt Blunt to call a
special session to deal with the issue.

"Those that are fearful of the changes we're suggesting should be very fearful,"
he said.

Business groups have been balking at the employer provisions, which would strip
business licenses from employers who knowingly hire illegal workers. But, if
businesses enroll in a federal employment verification system known as E-Verify,
they would be exempt from those provisions.

Business leaders note E-Verify's 4 percent error rate and say the new law could
open the door to harassment.

Other provisions of the bill would prohibit public benefits to illegal
immigrants, require police to check the status of those who are jailed and
prohibit cities from harboring illegal immigrants. A provision to ban illegal
immigrants from attending state colleges was left out of the new version.

Senators were debating the bill Tuesday evening. The session ends Friday.

The bill is HB 1549.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 16, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Frustrated sponsor pulls measure to repeal village law Missouri lawmakers work
late to iron out differences in bill about illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By Tony Messenger and Lee Logan St. Louis Post-Dispatch Virginia Young
and Tim O'Neil of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


A power play between key House and Senate leaders over illegal immigration and a
repeal of a controversial village law continues to bog down action in the
Missouri Legislature, setting up a frantic final day of the session today .

Lawmakers made limited progress Thursday, sending bills on several issues to
conference committee, despite a dispute between Speaker of the House Rod Jetton
and Sen. Jack Goodman, both Republicans.

Goodman, of Mount Vernon, held up immigration reform legislation until Jetton
allowed the House to take up Goodman's village law repeal. But even after the
House approved the repeal Wednesday - which would overturn a law allowing
individual landowners to create their own villages - Jetton sat on the bill,
which kept the Senate from acting.

On Thursday, Democrat Victor Callahan of Independence twice took to the Senate
floor to stop progress on the village law bill. The filibuster, aided by Sen.
Chris Koster, D-Raymore, held up other progress in the Senate.

About 7 p.m., Goodman, visibly upset, gave into the filibuster and withdrew his
motion to approve the village law repeal. The action makes it unlikely the
repeal will pass.

Goodman said on the Senate floor he was angry that he missed his son's first
steps to be "here for this kind of delay from people who don't care about the
policy in this state."

Property taxes

Much closer to becoming law is tax reform championed by Senate President Pro Tem
Michael Gibbons, R-Kirkwood, a compromise measure aimed at keeping property
taxes from soaring after reassessment. Negotiators signed off on the bill
Wednesday and the Senate quickly followed suit, leaving only the House to put
its stamp on the deal.

The bill would require local governments to roll back their rates when property
values skyrocketed, as they did in St. Louis County last year. More elderly and
disabled homeowners would get tax credits to help pay taxes.

Single homeowners making less than $30,000 and married couples making less than
$34,000 would be eligible. They could get up to $1,100, instead of a maximum of
$750.

The bill includes a slap at Gov. Matt Blunt's administration for a recent
increase in fees. Under the bill, the Department of Revenue could charge a
half-penny per record, or about $20,000, for the state's drivers license
database.

The department raised the fee this month to $7 per record, or $28 million for
the database. Data-collection companies complained because they buy the data and
resell it, for example, to insurers who use it to set auto insurance rates.

The Department of Revenue had planned to use the higher fees for a $50 million
update to its computer system. Omar Davis, the agency's director, said Thursday
that with the fee set "at a half-cent, there's no way we can build a system like
that."

Immigration

Negotiators from both chambers met Thursday night to work out the details of a
wide-ranging immigration bill. The bill would prohibit illegal immigrants from
receiving public benefits and prevent cities from harboring them.

The most contentious provision adds penalties for employers who falsely classify
their workers as "contractors" in order to avoid paying taxes. The Senate
endorsed the provision in a voice vote, but the bill's sponsor warned that it
would be "radioactive" to House leaders.

On Wednesday, Gov. Matt Blunt said that legislators are working under the threat
of a special session if they do not pass an immigration bill.

st. louis keeps judges

The House on Thursday also scaled back its plan to cut judges from the St. Louis
courthouse, reducing its cut to four. But after the Senate resisted, House
leaders agreed to let the city keep all of its judges.

The House also gave up its effort in that same bill to revive Blunt's call for
the death penalty for child rapists.

"There just wasn't any time left," said Bryan Stevenson, R-Webb City, whose
original idea was to cut six judges from the city bench.

During the debate Thursday, Democrats mocked the catchall bill as overloaded and
confusing. Both chambers are expected today to consider the stripped-down
version, which deals with courthouse administration and other routine issues.

---

Keep up

STLtoday.com - As the Legislature moves toward adjournment, get the latest on
action in Jefferson City.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Legislature approves immigration bill

BYLINE: By Tony Messenger St. Louis Post-Dispatch Virginia Young, Tim O'Neil and
Lee Logan of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 1427 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Blunt's priority o The governor had said he would call a special session if bill
failed.

Property taxes o The measure would require tax rate rollbacks after high
reassessments.

Saving Gov. Matt Blunt's top priorities for the session's last day, the Missouri
Legislature on Friday passed bills that toughen laws on immigrants and provide
property tax reform across the state.

Lawmakers also enacted stricter stalking and harassment laws in response to last
year's suicide of a Dardenne Prairie teen. And setting the stage for an
expensive election year, lawmakers lifted caps on campaign contributions.

A dispute over a bill to repeal the so-called "village law" - which received
final passage early in the day after a bipartisan filibuster that lasted until 4
a.m. - got in the way of other controversial bills. Among the issues lawmakers
failed to address were voter photo ID, abortion and health insurance.

Lawmakers from both parties praised the immigration reform law sponsored by Rep.
Bob Onder, R-Lake Saint Louis, as a key accomplishment of the session.

The bill includes several provisions aimed at curbing illegal immigration,
including measures that crack down on employers who hire illegal workers.

"The federal government has badly failed us in securing our borders," said
Onder, the bill's sponsor. "That does not mean there's nothing the state can
do."

The bill includes penalties for employers who misclassify any workers as
"contractors" in an effort to avoid paying taxes. It's aimed at the practice of
employers who pay cash to illegal immigrants without paying benefits or taxes,
but it applies to all employees, not just immigrants.

Businesses would be exempt from the penalty if they enroll in a federal work
authorization program, known as E-Verify.

Originally deemed "radioactive" by the bill's Senate sponsor, negotiators
removed some penalties that worried House leaders.

Earlier this week, Blunt threatened to call a special session if legislators did
not pass "significant" immigration legislation. The bill survived hours of
talking from Democrats and a daylong holdup from Sen. Jack Goodman, R-Mount
Vernon, who used the bill as leverage to force the House to repeal the "village
law."

Michael Grote, a lobbyist for the Missouri Chamber of Commerce, called the bill
the "best worst-case scenario." He said illegal immigration is not that big of
an issue in Missouri.

"We're still concerned about fixing a problem we don't think exists," he said.
"A 4 percent problem is not that big of a problem."

The House approved the bill 133-11, and senators voted 27-7 to send it to Blunt,
who lauded its passage and the entire session.

"Early this year many pundits said we would not accomplish anything this
legislative year," Blunt said. "This session has proved them wrong."

But House Democrats criticized the majority party for having skewed priorities.

"They spent more time on the snowcone/ice cream cone than they did talking about
what we need to improve health care," said House Minority Leader Paul LeVota,
referring to the state's new official dessert.

Tax outcry heeded

One big bill that was passed may reduce property taxes for many Missourians. The
measure was pushed by Senate President Pro Tem Michael Gibbons, R-Kirkwood, to
protect property owners from steep tax increases through reassessment.

Outcry in St. Louis County after the last go-round of reassessment in 2007
inspired the bill, which would require local governments to roll back their
rates when property values skyrocket. More elderly and disabled homeowners would
get tax credits to help pay taxes. The House adopted it this morning, 142-5, and
sent it to Blunt.

Also sent to the governor is a bill that would expand stalking laws to the
Internet. In a case that attracted national attention, 13-year-old Megan Meier
killed herself following taunts from a neighbor who is accused of creating a
fake identity on the social networking site Myspace.

Although the neighbor, Lori Drew, was indicted Thursday on federal charges, St.
Charles prosecutors did not charge Drew because state harassment laws only cover
telephone and written communications.

Legislators say their bill fixes that.

"There's no reason a family should have to go through this and know that the
other person is still walking around," said Megan's mom, Tina Meier, who gave
emotional testimony during committee hearings on the bill.

While legislators set a frantic pace Friday, they got one of the most
far-reaching bills out of the way over a week ago when they approved $240
million in tax credits for an airplane manufacturer.

The state is trying to try to lure Bombardier Aerospace of Montreal to Kansas
City International Airport. The company is looking for a site to assemble its
new C series of 110-seat and 130-seat airliners.

The company would have to invest at least $300 million and employ more than
1,000 people at above-average wages. The earliest the credits could be issued is
2013.

Perhaps one of the session's biggest last day surprises was that the voter photo
ID bill sponsored by Rep. Stanley Cox, R-Sedalia, never came up for discussion.
For the past couple of years, the issue has been a divisive one as Republicans
fought to require voters to have to show a photo ID when voting and Democrats
decried the measure as being a voter suppression effort.

Missouri lawmakers passed a bill on the issue two years ago but it was ruled
unconstitutional. When the Supreme Court ruled recently that a similar law in
Indiana was constitutional, Missouri's proposal was again fast-tracked and
passed the House quickly. But it never came up in the Senate.

insure missouri

The governor's most ambitious proposal - called Insure Missouri - was not
brought up for a vote during the session's final week. House and Senate
Republicans deadlocked on whether it should include changes to allow more
hospital competition and price transparency.

They also differed on how much money low-wage workers should have to pay toward
their health care costs. House members wanted all participants to set up savings
accounts to help pay deductibles and co-payments. The Senate opposed requiring
savings accounts for families living below poverty.

After the House broke the stalemate Friday morning by repealing the "village"
law, it methodically approved 36 bills before partisan sentiments erupted over
the campaign-finance issue.

sent to governor

Bills sent to the governor would:

- Toughen the boating-while-intoxicated law, using the same blood-alcohol
standard for driving while intoxicated. But the new standard, .08 percent,
wouldn't take effect until Aug. 28, almost the end of the summer boating season.

- Expand the state's "A-plus" junior-college scholarships for students from
unaccredited public school districts, such as St. Louis and Wellston, to help
them attend Ranken Technical College, a private vocational-technical school in
the city. The House adopted it 90-63 over the objection of Rep. Gayle Kingery,
R-Poplar Bluff, who said he was "philosophically opposed to more money going to
private schools."

- Require multiple driving-while-intoxicated offenders, as a condition of
resuming driving, to get "interlocking" devices into which they must breathe
before their cars will start. That's in a lengthy transportation bill that also
would prohibit big trucks from driving in the far left lane of interstates with
three or more lanes and eliminate sales taxes on aircraft repair jobs.

- Give consumers a tax break if they by energy-efficient appliances for one week
in April. The state would not collect its sales tax on those purchases, though
cities could continue to do so.

- Fix the workers compensation system while avoiding more controversial
proposals to gut the Second Injury Fund. For months, Sen. Gary Nodler, R-Joplin,
and Rep. Steve Hunter, R-Joplin, had sought to move the fund's control away from
the attorney general and pass other provisions that would limit its ability to
help injured workers. The only provision to pass, the "Schoemehl fix" will undo
a state court ruling that allowed some dependents of injured workers to receive
benefits even after the worker had died.

- Keep investor-owned utility Aquila from having to tear down and rebuild the
natural gas plant it built in Cass County in defiance of a court order. Sen.
Joan Bray, D-University City, helped scrap another part of the bill that would
have allowed utility companies to add a surcharge to collect bad debt. Consumer
groups argued that utilities already have bad debt built into their rates and
the surcharge would have caused rates to go up.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Soothing his eyes, Senate Pro Tem Mike Gibbons (left) confers with
state Sen. Charles Shields, R-Kansas City, on the last day of the legislative
session Friday in Jefferson City.   Erik M. Lunsford | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Border Patrol recruits here They need bodies Agency is 2,500 short of new hires
to meet president's goal.

BYLINE: By Adam Jadhav St, Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES


Deon Morris spent a few years as a police officer in tiny Beverly Hills before
quitting to focus on a football career that hasn't quite taken off.

Scott Cheever built minivans for 12 years but found himself without work in
December when the Chrysler Fenton plant slowed production.

John Hopkins, an 18-year-old from Warrenton, said he's looking for a real job
and some direction in his life.

So all of them were drawn to advertisements about a U.S. Border Patrol job fair
Tuesday and Wednesday. Good pay. Good benefits. Quick advancement.

But for all the bluster locally and nationally about illegal immigration,
Morris, Cheever and Hopkins and many who showed up admitted to knowing little
about border life or the wider illegal immigration debate.

"I really had no idea what the Border Patrol was about," said Justin Keeney, a
20-year-old car wash supervisor from St. Charles. With immigration sure to be a
key issue in the upcoming election season, the Border Patrol stands on the
frontline of the debate. Most conservatives are demanding tighter border
controls while many liberals are urging less strict laws for immigrants entering
the United States.

The two-day recruiting event, held simultaneously with a conference for Border
Patrol officials, was part of a large national push by the federal agency to
meet the goal set in 2006 by President George W. Bush of adding 6,000 agents to
the Mexican border by the end of this year. Border Patrol officials still have
about 2,500 hires to go.

"We started hitting the heartland of America - people from Oklahoma or St.
Louis," said Joe Battaglia, a national recruitment director for the Border
Patrol. "They don't know about the Border Patrol unless they've seen us on the
news."

Agents were on hand to talk about the agency to anyone who would listen. The
Border Patrol is the largest federal law enforcement agency, they told would-be
agents. More than 16,000 "men and women in green" work on foot, bikes, ATVs,
boats, trucks and horses. Within a year of completing training, agents could be
making $50,000 a year.

"Your career is what you make of it," said Damian White, an agent from Arizona.

Though no college degree is required, applicants must pass stringent physical
and mental tests and go through months of training at an academy.

Only about one in three test-takers pass the written exam. In the end, Battaglia
said, an estimated one in 30 actually is deployed in the field.

Battaglia said the agency's standards won't be lowered, but immigration policy
experts believe meeting the president's mandate could put pressure on the agency
to be less picky.

"The big challenge for the Border Patrol is to meet these very ambitious
recruiting goals and still maintain the quality ... of people in the field that
are actually working along the border," said Doris Meissner, former commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and a senior fellow at the
Migration Policy Institute.

During the recruiting event, more than 100 people signed up for further
information or scheduled a test.

Like many others, Morris, Cheever and Hopkins said they were motivated first and
foremost by economic reasons. "Times are tough. Jobs come and go," Hopkins said.

Some also said they felt a sense of civic duty. A dramatic video that talked of
war and a country at risk, finished with a sales pitch.

"Now more than ever, this border must be guarded," the announcer boomed.
"Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, we protect our freedom and our way
of life."

Battaglia added: "I like to say it's a chance to protect America in America."

Those themes struck a particular chord for Josh Bowman, an Army Reservist, who
attended the event with his fiancée. He admitted to knowing little about the
Border Patrol before he came, but said he supports the president's mission.

"We need to keep people out if they're illegal," Bowman said. "It definitely
needs to be cracked down on."

Battaglia said recruiters leave such politics out of the equation. But Joseph
Burr, a 34-year-old Iraq war veteran who was already pursuing a job with the
Border Patrol, said it's difficult to separate patriotism from the wider
immigration debate.

But he then demurred, saying that such matters are "for smarter people than I."

"When you're a soldier and they say, 'Go to Iraq,' you do it," Burr said. "With
the policy being that borders are closed, you need people to do that job."

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current - Would you want to be a border guard? Talk about it in
Current Affairs.

Watch

stltoday.com/multimedia - More about the Border Patrol's recruiting efforts and
reaction for job seekers.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  'a chance to protect America in America'

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - At the St. Charles Convention Center Wednesday, U.S. Border Patrol
Agent Amanda Karhoff (left) helps answer questions from Ernest Stringfellow
(facing camera right) of Bellefontaine Neighbors at a  Border Patrol job fair.
Huy R. Mach | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 623 words


MILWAUKEE

Black Holocaust Museum is closing its doors

America's Black Holocaust Museum, the popular but financially struggling
institution on Milwaukee's north side, is closing today because it can't afford
to keep its remaining staff.

The museum's directors appealed to the public this week for money and volunteer
support to help the museum reopen. The museum is also negotiating with its
creditors and city officials for assistance.

The 20-year-old museum was started in the basement of James Cameron, who
survived a lynching in 1930 in Indiana. Cameron made it a lifelong mission to
teach others about the historical struggles of African-Americans in America,
from slavery to the present.

WASHINGTON

Illegal immigration is on decline, report finds

The flow of illegal immigrants into the country appears to have declined over
the last year, at least partly due to the chilling effect of stepped-up
enforcement, according to a report released Wednesday by a Washington think tank
that advocates stricter limits on immigration.

The study by the Center for Immigration Studies based its findings on Census
data indicating that the number of less-educated, working-age Hispanic
immigrants - defined as 18- to 40-year-olds with a high school diploma or less -
has dropped by more than 10 percent, or about 830,000 people since last August.
Previous research suggests that a large share of less-educated foreigners are in
the country illegally.

WASHINGTON

House votes to beef up toy safety legislation

Alarmed by a year of recalls targeting millions of tainted toys, the House voted
overwhelming Wednesday to ban lead and other dangerous chemicals from items such
as jewelry and rubber ducks that could end up in kids' mouths.

The legislation also would toughen rules for testing children's products and
take steps to give more muscle to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which
was criticized last year for its feeble handling of a flood of goods from China
deemed hazardous to children.

The legislation was lauded by lawmakers and consumer groups as one of the most
far-reaching product safety bills in decades.

WASHINGTON

FEMA still unsure on how to house disaster victims

Federal Emergency Management Agency officials admitted Wednesday that they still
have no plan for housing victims of major disasters, more than a year past a
deadline set by Congress.

However, FEMA submitted its plan - due July 1, 2007 - this month. It contained
blank pages for seven key elements, including ways to house disaster victims. At
a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
Adm. Harvey Johnson, FEMA's deputy administrator, said the strategy would be
complete by early fall.

Briefly

- Schizophrenia studies: Two huge international studies show that people who
lack certain chunks of DNA run a dramatically higher risk of getting
schizophrenia, a finding that could help open new doors to understanding and
diagnosing the disease. The studies were published online Wednesday by the
journal Nature.

- AIDS funds: President George W. Bush signed a sweeping measure Wednesday that
provides $48 billion to combat AIDS and other diseases globally and that also
ends a long-standing U.S. ban on foreign visitors and immigrants who are
HIV-positive.

- Rove citation: A House panel voted Wednesday to cite Karl Rove, formerly
President George W. Bush's top aide, for defying a subpoena to testify July 10
on allegations of improper White House influence over the Justice Department.

- Alligator attack: An alligator bit off an 11-year-old boy's arm Wednesday in
Slidell, La., sheriff's deputies say. His arm was recovered from the alligator,
which was killed, but relatives say they're unsure whether the arm can be
reattached.

FROM NEWS SERVICES

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

STATE REPRESENTATIVE 13TH DISTRICT | REPUBLICAN

SECTION: VOTERS GUIDE; Pg. S8

LENGTH: 599 words


STATE REPRESENTATIVE 13TH DISTRICT | Republican

Chuck Gatschenberger

Incumbent: No

Age: 52

Home: Lake Saint Louis

Occupation: Financial planner

Political experience: Never elected to public office

Web site: chuck4rep.com

LEGISLATION SOUGHT:

The United States is a country of immigrants; that is, at some point in our
past, we or our predecessors were all from different countries. I am in favor of
legal immigration. We should gladly welcome legal immigrants. We can not
tolerate or accept the devastating economic impact of the out-of-control illegal
immigrant problem. Currently, the number of Illegal immigrants in the United
States is projected to be roughly 5 million (conservative estimate). The
population of Missouri is roughly about 5.5 to 5.75 million. We should prevent
illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits or from receiving drivers
licenses. Also, we should crack down on all businesses that choose and knowingly
hire illegal immigrants.

QUALIFICATIONS:

The key word here is serve. Over my life, God has blessed us again and again
beyond our wildest dreams. I believe that the strongest and best leaders lead
from a kneeling position. I trust God for most of the decisions that we have
made and I see no reason to change now.

Over the years I have demonstrated my commitment to our community by being
involved in many community organizations, some of which are: Wentzville Rotary,
Habitat for Humanity, Lake Saint Louis Ambassadors, Missouri Right to Life,
First Step Back Home (a local homeless ministry for single males). I have also
volunteered for all of Sen. Scott Rupp's campaigns and Matt Blunt's governor's
race. I see this state representative position as a logical progression to my
giving back to the community that we have lived in for some 23 years, which I
thank God for daily.

WHY SHOULD I BE ELECTED:

I am the only candidate that is running for this position that has been endorsed
by the Missouri Right to Life. I am and have been a member of the National Rifle
Assn. I would be in favor of freezing our real estate taxes. We have worked,
lived, paid our taxes and raised our family for over 23 years in our district.

---

Kevin Kuhlmann

Incumbent: No

Age: 35

City: Lake Saint Louis

Occupation: City administrator, Innsbrook, Mo.

Political experience: Never elected to public office

Web Site: www.kevinkuhlmann.com

LEGISLATION SOUGHT:

I believe that legislation that will promote economic development and education
in Missouri is a priority.

With nine years of experience working with local governments, I understand the
impact state laws can inflict on a community. I will work to ensure that
Missouri encourages small businesses to create new high quality jobs by
containing the growth of government, limiting or cutting taxes, avoiding
needless regulation and providing top quality education for our children.

QUALIFICATIONS:

I have worked for over eleven years in public service as the city administrator
for Innsbrook, Mo., as the senior regional planner for the Boonslick Regional
Planning Commission and I am a veteran of the U.S. Army.

I believe it is now time to use the knowledge I have gained from the working
side of legislation and put it to work on the policy side of legislation.

WHY SHOULD I BE ELECTED:

I have a 100 percent pro-life rating from Missouri Right to Life. I am a member
of the National Rifle Association.

I am not in favor of freezing our real estate taxes which would cut funding to
our schools and other local public services. I am in favor of making sure the
loopholes that have been exploited to increase real estate tax revenue over the
years are closed.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  VOTERS GUIDE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Gatschenberger  PHOTO - Kuhlmann

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 563 words


SANTA ANA, CALIF.

U.S. vows crackdown on immigrant 'fugitives'

U.S. authorities are vowing to track down on illegal immigrants at home and at
work after only eight people volunteered for a self-deportation program.

The nearly three-week trial program for illegal immigrants who have ignored
court orders to leave the country ended Friday in five cities.

Jim Hayes, acting director of detention and removal operations for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, told reporters Friday the agency would
arrest more so-called immigrant "fugitives" this year than last - and still more
next year as more agents are assigned.

RIVERSIDE, CALIF.

Marines don't testify, are held in contempt

A judge found two Marines in contempt of court Friday for refusing to testify
against a former squad leader accused of killing unarmed detainees in Iraq, but
he rejected the prosecution's pleas to throw the men in jail immediately.

U.S. District Judge Stephen Larson instead ordered Sgt. Ryan Weemer and Sgt.
Jermaine Nelson to return to court in 30 days to begin proceedings on the
contempt charges.

The men invoked their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination after
being called to testify in the civilian trial of former Marine Jose Luis Nazario
Jr. The two face military charges of their own over the Nov. 9, 2004, shootings
in Fallujah during some of the fiercest fighting of the Iraq war.

DETROIT

Offer of plea deal is rejected by mayor

Prosecutors made a "limited-time offer" Friday to Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick: Resign
by Sept. 3 in exchange for the dismissal of one of two assault charges against
him. Kilpatrick rejected the deal, which a mayoral spokesman dismissed as
grandstanding.

Attorney General Mike Cox's office offered the plea deal to the mayor, who also
is charged with perjury and other counts in a separate case dealing with his
sworn denials of an affair.

WASHINGTON

Convention alert issued on fake emergencies

The federal government is telling emergency managers to be on the lookout for
fake emergency and commercial vehicles, as security tightens in the two cities
hosting this year's presidential conventions.

Terrorists could used these "cloned vehicles" to conduct surveillance or to
carry out an attack, according to an Aug. 21 bulletin from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.

The Secret Service does not have any specific information about these cloned
vehicles being used for surveillance or terrorist purposes at the Democratic
convention in Denver and the GOP convention in St. Paul, Minn., Secret Service
spokesman Eric Zahren said. But the agency is aware of this type of potential
threat, Zahren said.

WASHINGTON

Bush seeks feedback on marine conservation

President George W. Bush next week will seek formal comment from his Cabinet
agencies on a plan that could make three of the world's most remote and pristine
island chains off-limits to commercial fishing and mineral exploration.

The action, which could be completed before Bush leaves office, would rank as
one of the largest marine conservation efforts in history.

Bush's proposal would conserve parts of the Northern Mariana islands, the Line
Islands in the central Pacific and American Samoa, according to
environmentalists who took part in a 40-minute conference call about the plan on
Friday. Making them off-limits to fishing and energy development is the most
stringent of the possible measures outlined.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Phony kidnappings are scam along border Families in Mexico of illegal immigrants
in U.S. are told loved ones are being held for ransom.

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Families of illegal immigrants in Arizona are increasingly being targeted by an
extortion scam in which criminals falsely claim to have kidnapped their loved
ones as the immigrants tried to sneak across the U.S. border with Mexico.

The culprits behind so-called "virtual kidnappings" typically strike when
illegal immigrants make the three- to four-day journey through the remote
desert, where they are cut off from communicating with family members. Relatives
are told to cough up thousands of dollars or their loved ones will be maimed or
killed.

"It's just an extension of what happens in Mexico," said Armando Garcia,
assistant special agent in charge of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency in Arizona, where the trend first appeared five years ago and
has escalated to an average of one case being reported each week.

Investigators believe virtual kidnappers get the names and phone numbers of
immigrants' families either by buying them from smugglers or by posing as
helpers who can connect illegal immigrants with smugglers in Mexican border
towns.

One family paid $7,000 before calling authorities. Once a ransom is paid, the
criminals will often ask for more money and sometimes even demand that families
cover the cost of the kidnapper's cell phone.

The kidnappers are convincing. They speak good English and use cell phones with
a Phoenix area code so it looks like they are in the Arizona capital, even
though they are probably making the calls from Mexico, where the extortion money
is often sent.

Such scams have also been reported in San Diego, where immigration agents
investigate two to three each year, said Lauren Mack of that city's office of
the U.S. immigration agency.

It's not hard to trick families into believing an actual kidnapping has
happened.

Relatives of illegal immigrants know that human trafficking is a violent
business in which customers who have already paid their smuggling fees are
sometimes held captive while smugglers try to squeeze more money out of friends
and family.

Immigration agents are stumped as to why Arizona is seeing an increase in
virtual kidnappings, and they believe the number of cases is probably higher
because some cases go unreported.

Virtual kidnappings also drain law enforcement resources because investigators
have to assume that the ransom calls are valid.

A telltale sign of virtual kidnappings is an unwillingness of the scammers to
put the supposed abduction victim on the phone. Immigration agents recommend
being skeptical of ransom demands if the caller does not allow relatives to
speak with family members who are supposedly being held captive.

In one case, a woman who got a call that her ex-husband was kidnapped called the
scammers' bluff, saying she didn't want to speak with them if she couldn't speak
with him. The criminals started calling the man's girlfriend.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Illegal migrants to U.S. are on wane Report shows that number of illegal
immigrants entering the country is now less than the number coming in legally.

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 428 words


WASHINGTON - Illegal immigration, which has sparked political and social turmoil
in communities across the nation, is on the wane, according to an independent
report released Thursday.

The number of illegal immigrants entering the United States has slowed
significantly the past few years, falling below the number of those entering the
country legally, according to the report by the Pew Hispanic Center, a
Washington think tank.

The report estimates that 11.9 million illegal immigrants were in the U.S. as of
March. That would be a decline of 500,000 from the center's estimate a year ago.
However, the change was not statistically significant because of the large
margins of error.

The Pew study does not address why the decrease occurred, but other researchers
cite the nation's struggling economy and stepped-up enforcement of immigration
laws.

"The decline in job prospects in construction, service and other low-skilled
jobs are communicated through extended networks of would-be movers from Mexico
and Latin America," said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution, another Washington think tank. "It also may propel more return
migration."

Census data released last month showed that overall immigration slowed
dramatically in 2007, though the Census Bureau does not distinguish between
legal and illegal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants are notoriously difficult to count. Many researchers,
including the federal government, estimate that about 12 million illegal
immigrants reside in the U.S.

That's a big increase from the start of the decade, when the Pew Hispanic Center
estimated there were about 8.5 million.

From 2000 to 2004, about 800,000 illegal immigrants a year entered the U.S., the
Pew report estimates. Since then, the average has dropped to about 500,000 a
year.

A decade ago, the number of newly arrived illegal immigrants began to outnumber
those legally entering the country, said the report, written by the Pew Hispanic
Center's senior demographer, Jeffrey Passel, and senior writer, D'Vera Cohn.

"The reverse now appears to be true," the report said.

Illegal immigrants make up about 30 percent of all immigrants, according to the
report. About four in five come from Latin America, with most coming from
Mexico.

Congress has passed several measures designed to increase border enforcement,
and the administration has stepped up raids on businesses. Some local
communities have also passed ordinances to address the issue.

Congress, however, has yet to pass a comprehensive package addressing illegal
immigration, despite several attempts.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Detention centers for immigrants denounced

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Advocacy groups for immigrant families and the Department of Homeland Security
are at odds over detention facilities in Texas and Pennsylvania that critics
argue are inhumanely housing adults and young children in jail-like conditions.

In a report released Thursday, groups speaking for immigrants demanded the
immediate closure of the T. Don Hutto Residential Center north of Austin, the
Texas capital, a facility that once was a jail.

The advocacy groups - the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children and
Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services - said they based their complaints on
visits to these sites by their members and interviews with detainees.

At the Hutto site, their report said, a child secretly passed a visitor a note
that read: "Help us and ask us questions," it said. The groups reported that
many of the detainees cried during interviews.

At a news conference, the groups charged that some families are kept up to two
years in the facilities. Those petitioning for asylum or trying to prove they
shouldn't be deported remain the longest.

The Homeland Security Department defended the centers as a workable solution to
the problem of illegal immigrants being released, only to disappear while
awaiting hearings. Also, they deter smugglers who endanger children, said Mark
Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which oversees
detention facilities.

The Berks County Shelter Care Facility in Leesport, Pa., about 50 miles
northwest of Philadelphia, is a former nursing home and "less jail-like." But it
also has problems, the groups said. It is part of a larger juvenile facility
housing U.S. citizens charged with or convicted of crimes.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 583 words


LOS ANGELES

Judge finds U.S. violates immigrant detention rules

The U.S. government has violated its own immigrant detention standards, denying
some Salvadoran detainees access to legal materials, telephones and attorney
visits, a federal judge in Los Angeles has ruled.

District Court Judge Margaret M. Morrow upheld a 1988 injunction mandating that
Salvadorans be advised of their rights to apply for political asylum and have
access to legal representation.

Although the case was filed on behalf of Salvadorans fleeing civil war in the
1980s, the injunction - and the recent ruling Thursday - affects all detained
immigrants.

The U.S. Department of Justice plans to appeal.

WASHINGTON

Non-candidate Thompson has raised $3.4 million

Edging closer to entering the presidential race, Republican Fred Thompson
announced Tuesday he had raised $3.4 million while he "tested the waters" in
June.

The amount prompted him to crow about his support, but skeptics said it fell
short of expectations.

Thompson, who served eight years in the U.S. Senate from Tennessee, raised more
than 70 percent of his first month's haul from Southern states, a campaign
finance report filed Tuesday showed.

HANAHAN, S.C.

Mom is charged after 2 kids are found dead under sink

A woman accused of leaving her two young children in a hot car while she was at
work was charged with homicide by child abuse after their bodies were found
wrapped in trash bags under an apartment sink, authorities said Tuesday.

Autopsies were scheduled to determine what killed 1-year-old Triniti Campbell
and her 4-year-old brother, Shawn Campbell Jr.

Officers investigating a report of a disturbance at the apartment Monday night
found Sametta Heyward, 27, crying and yelling, "'Oh, my babies,'" according to a
police report. She was taken to a hospital.

Investigators found a note Heyward left at her apartment saying that plans fell
through for a baby sitter and she took the children with her in the car to work,
Berkeley County Deputy Coroner George Oliver said.

Temperatures have been in the high 80s.

NEW YORK

Attorney general settles with student loan firm

New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday that he has settled with one
of the nation's largest student loan consolidators, which has agreed to end its
agreements with more than 100 alumni associations for providing exclusive loan
consolidation referrals to the company.

The company, Nelnet, also agreed to pay $2 million into a fund to educate
families about student loan options.

Cuomo said that the Nebraska-based company with student loan assets totaling $26
billion had referral agreements with about 120 college alumni associations.
Cuomo said Nelnet paid alumni associations to refer loan consolidation
applications to the company.

Nelnet, in a statement, said it agreed to abide by his Code of Conduct, which
prohibits lenders from giving college employees anything of more than nominal
value.

ATLANTA

Car dealer is accused of killing his 2 employees

The owner of a financially troubled car dealership killed his only two employees
because they kept asking for pay raises, police said Tuesday.

Rolandas Milinavicius was charged in the shooting deaths of Inga Contreras, 25,
and Martynas Simokaitis, 28.

Milinavicius told police he shot the two Thursday after they kept asking for
more pay, said police in East Point, which is just outside Atlanta.

Milinavicius, 38, turned himself in two days after the shootings, East Point
police Capt. Russell Popham said.

The three men are from Lithuania.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegal workers reported at site INVESTIGATION State will look into accusations
of bogus Social Security numbers. STRONG DENIAL Developer at O'Fallon, Mo.,
construction site says all workers are documented.

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1140 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, MO.


The Missouri attorney general's office is reviewing a report of illegal
immigrant workers and their use of more than 30 bogus Social Security numbers at
an O'Fallon construction site, a city official said Tuesday.

City Administrator Robert Lowery Jr. is pressing the state and the St. Charles
County prosecutor to bring charges against Hennessey Development Inc. of
Clayton, the lead contractor on the Southernside apartment complex. The project,
aimed at providing affordable housing, is supported by millions in tax credits
and tax-exempt bonds.

"These workers are here because unscrupulous people take advantage of them and
pay them a substandard wage," Lowery said.

Representatives from the attorney general's office, the county prosecutor's
office, the county executive's office, O'Fallon, and the two state agencies
supporting the housing complex plan to meet today at City Hall. A spokesman for
the attorney general's office confirmed the meeting but would not comment
further.

Developer Pete Hennessey adamantly denies the claims, triggered by complaints by
the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity.

"Everyone is documented at the site," he said. "If they're fake, that's between
the employees and the federal government. It's basically an anti-Mexican stance
that the carpenters union is taking, and it's totally backed by the city."

The state is scrutinizing a report prepared by Mid-West Protective Service Inc.
of Ellisville and funded by the carpenters union, Lowery said. Tim Flora, owner
of the detective agency and a former police detective, said Tuesday that an
investigator with the attorney general's office questioned him this week about
his report.

"I do feel confident the data is correct," Flora said, noting his agency
routinely analyzes Social Security numbers for client background checks.

Mayor Donna Morrow said O'Fallon is an unfortunate example of what she believes
is happening nationally. Developers and investors are awarded competitive state
and federal subsidies partly based on low construction bids made possible by
illegal labor, she said.

"There seems to be a pipeline of these illegals that are finding their way to
these job sites," she said. "Now if they're also using identity theft - gosh -
that's also a multimillion-dollar-a-year drain on our economy."

UNION ACTION

Flora, the private detective, said only four of the 36 registered workers at the
$20 million project appear to have submitted legitimate Social Security numbers
on federal employment residency eligibility forms.

Eight of the numbers belonged to dead people, and others belonged to living
citizens and are likely stolen, he said. Fingerprints were repeated on 10
permanent-resident cards provided with the residency eligibility forms, he said.

Lowery, the former assistant police chief in Florissant, said he recommended the
detective agency to union officials. After a request by the union under the
Freedom of Information Act, he gave copies of the residency eligibility forms to
them for analysis by the detective agency.

Under a law passed last year, O'Fallon requires contractors on publicly
supported construction sites to provide employment records to confirm whether
their workers are legal.

O'Fallon officials chose not to use the city Police Department for fear it would
be accused of racially profiling the workers, some of whom are Hispanic, Lowery
said.

This is the second time the issue has come to a head in O'Fallon. In 2006,
illegal immigrant workers were discovered at the O'Fallon Lakes
affordable-housing complex spearheaded locally by Gundaker Commercial Group, a
minority investor in the project.

Workers fled the site, which was being built by a Cleveland-based contractor,
and work was shut down for months. Gundaker later bought out the contractor for
about $6 million and finished the job with local union contractors, said Tom
Heinsz, director of organizing for the carpenters union.

Southernside also is intended to provide affordable housing, offering
below-market-rate apartment rentals for support staff of businesses along the
growing Highway 40 technology and retail corridor.

Hennessey claims the construction site has been targeted by the carpenters union
because he chose to employ some nonunion, out-of-state subcontractors that do
not pay a prevailing wage.

In the aftermath of O'Fallon Lakes, both O'Fallon and the county Industrial
Development Authority passed new rules requiring prevailing wages on such work
sites. But Hennessey's project gained its approvals prior to the new rules.

Hennessey, the developer, said the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives is now involved because a man was discovered on the construction
site several weeks ago pouring a fire accelerant and cutting electrical wires
after dark. No fire was set then, but a fire occurred overnight Monday. An
official with the bureau declined to comment.

O'Fallon Police Chief Jerry Schulte said police responded to a call from the
developer about cut wires after a security guard chased away a trespasser on the
site several weeks ago. The police found no evidence of an accelerant, he said.
Lowery said Cottleville firefighters responded to a small pallet fire overnight
Monday.

The carpenters union has picketed the site on and off since early spring and
claims that subcontractors H & H Drywall of Tulsa, Okla., and Openlander Siding
of Lake Saint Louis have employees working dawn to dusk, seven days a week.

A woman who said she was an official at Openlander Siding but would not give her
name said the company is using subcontractors at the site and the workers have
appropriate paperwork. H & H Drywall could not be reached for comment.

TAX CREDITS

The 220-unit Southernside complex is partly funded by more than $13 million in
state and federal tax credits over 10 years, administered by the Missouri
Housing Development Commission. It is also receiving $13.5 million in tax-exempt
bonds approved by the St. Charles County Industrial Development Authority.

Last year, the state commission awarded $22 million in state and federal tax
credits to create 39 affordable-housing developments around the state.

Peter Ramsel, executive director of the state housing commission, said the
commission adheres to stricter labor enforcement rules enacted last year in
response to events at O'Fallon Lakes. Those include sending in an inspector to
check required forms.

"That's about all we can do," he said. "We have no enforcement powers. We have
no police powers, and our hands our basically tied to performing that function."

Lowery said someone needs to act.

"Nobody wants to take on the responsibility of putting an end to this," he said.
The state commission "is passing out these tax credits - which are public funds
- to developers and accepting no responsibility of how these funds are being
utilized."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; MAP
 PHOTO - The Southernside Apartment complex under construction off Weldon Spring
Road near Crusher Drive in O'Fallon, Mo.,  will be available for occupancy soon.
Sam Leone | Post-Dispatch  MAP - Southernside Apartment complex | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Blunt takes on illegal workers Letter to commission: Calls for tighter
monitoring of work sites O'Fallon Officials pleased: They have sought a
crackdown

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 732 words


Gov. Matt Blunt is pressing members of a state commission that awards millions
in tax credits to beef up its labor policies amid allegations of illegal workers
at an O'Fallon construction site.

In a letter dated Thursday to Missouri Housing Development Commission Chairman
Richard Baalmann, Blunt urged members to enact tougher rules to prevent illegal
workers on projects receiving state and federal tax credits. The commission is
slated to address the issue today at its regular meeting in Jefferson City.

O'Fallon officials allege that Clayton-based developer Peter Hennessey is using
subcontractors that employ illegal immigrant workers to complete construction of
the 210-unit Southernside, an affordable-housing complex on Weldon Spring Road
just west of Highway K. Hennessey denies the claim and said the city is pushing
its own political agenda because the site is nonunion and uses out-of-state
workers.

His project is supported by $13 million in state and federal tax credits over 10
years administered by the state housing commission and $13.5 million in tax
exempt bonds approved by the St. Charles County Industrial Development
Authority.

Blunt is a member of the nine-person housing commission that is charged with
awarding the competitive tax credits and other subsidies to developers of
affordable and senior housing. The credits enable developers to charge
below-market rents and make a profit on the projects. The commission also
includes Lt. Gov. Peter Kinder, Attorney General Jay Nixon and state Treasurer
Sarah Steelman.

In his letter, Blunt advised the commission to use a computer database
administered through the Department of Homeland Security to ensure the
legitimacy of workers at the site; terminate contracts or tax credits with
developers who knowingly allow contractors to use illegal workers; and ban
contractors and developers who knowingly allow illegal workers on a job site
from receiving future tax credits and other state assistance.

Officials in O'Fallon were carefully optimistic about Blunt's letter.

"I'm impressed that he sent the letter," said Mayor Donna Morrow. But she said
it would be hard to prove that developers "knowingly" allow illegal workers.
Many developers and contractors could claim ignorance because they employ
subcontractors and independent contractors that are responsible for their own
hiring, she said.

"We have heard a lot of those kind of excuses from the current situation that
we're in," she said. "I don't think that ignorance or lack of knowledge is any
excuse for not using the same standards that any other employer does in the
state."

Morrow and City Administrator Robert Lowery Jr. have criticized the housing
commission and the St. Charles County Industrial Development Authority for what
they called a failure to address a problem that has twice plagued the city in
less than two years. In early 2006, illegal immigrant workers were discovered at
O'Fallon Lakes, another affordable-housing development on the western edge of
the city that also received millions in tax credits and tax exempt bonds.

Former state Rep. Bill Luetkenhaus, a commercial real estate broker based in
O'Fallon who serves on the housing commission, said members were prepared to
consider more restrictive policies. But he said local development authorities
that issue tax exempt bonds also need to comply with such rules.

Last year, Luetkenhaus and Steelman, who was then chairwoman of the housing
commission, pushed to revise rules to require all contractors to supply I-9
employment eligibility forms to prove immigration status. On Wednesday, the
American Civil Liberties Union of Eastern Missouri criticized such a policy,
arguing that the use of the federal forms for state and local investigations of
immigration status violated the federal Privacy Act.

In the Southernside case, O'Fallon officials told the Carpenters District
Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity to file a records request for the
workers' I-9 forms, which also contained individual Social Security numbers. The
union then paid a private detective agency to determine whether the numbers were
legitimate. Tim Flora of Mid-West Protective Services Inc. concluded that the
vast majority of the 36 numbers analyzed were false. The findings prompted the
state attorney general's office and the St. Charles County prosecutor's office
to start an investigation, which is ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Tax credits anger O'Fallon official

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, MO.


THE ISSUE Developer that got extra credits is suspected of using illegal
immigrantsas workers.

BLAST AT PANEL A state commission declined to block the extra tax credits
despite the allegations and an investigation.

---

City officials are going on the offensive after the Missouri Housing Development
Commission did not block more than $1 million in additional tax credits to a
developer suspected of using illegal immigrant workers.

In a four-page letter to Lt. Gov. Peter Kinder, O'Fallon City Administrator
Robert Lowery Jr. said some commissioners have been "apathetic" about Hennessey
Development, a Clayton company suspected of using illegal labor at the
Southernside affordable housing development in the city. Kinder is a member of
the commission.

The letter also sharply criticizes Richard Baalmann, chairman of the commission,
who Lowery said has taken an "incredible and disgraceful" position for a public
servant.

Lowery's criticism of the commission has the endorsement of the state attorney
general's office, which is currently conducting a joint investigation with the
St. Charles County prosecutor's office of the construction site.

"We strongly felt it was inappropriate for additional taxpayer dollars to go to
this developer amid the allegations of undocumented workers," said Scott Holste,
a spokesman for the attorney general's office.

Peter Hennessey, the developer, denies any wrongdoing. Baalmann and the
commission's executive director, Peter Ramsel, could not be reached for comment.
Kinder had not had an opportunity to read the letter and declined to comment,
said his spokesman Barry Bennett.

In his letter, Lowery further accused the commission of giving favorable
treatment to Hennessey by alerting him a week in advance of what should have
been a surprise inspection at the construction site to check whether employees
had proper worker-eligibility paperwork.

Lowery said Ramsel and the commission did not act appropriately after an
inspector told Ramsel in a memo that she believed worker-eligibility forms were
being falsified at the site while she was doing the inspection.

Hennessey and his attorney, David Lang, say they are the victim of politicking
on the part of O'Fallon for labor unions.

Hennessey said Monday there has never been any proof of illegal immigrant
subcontractors on the site, and he has repeatedly argued that the city and the
housing commission's requests for him to turn over worker-eligibility forms are
illegal and break federal privacy laws.

Lowery's missive was triggered by the commission's rejection of a motion at its
Sept. 21 meeting to withhold awarding more than $477,000 in additional state tax
credits and some $586,000 in additional federal tax credits to Hennessey
Development for the project. A commission spokesman said the additional tax
credits are part of an adjustment that is routinely given to its developers by
the staff to account for increases between projected and actual costs.

Because the additional tax credits did not amount to 10 percent of the total tax
credits awarded to the project, they did not have to go before the commission
for approval.

The motion to withhold the tax credits was made by Jeff Schaeperkoetter, an
assistant attorney general representing that office on the commission. Holste
said investigators with the office had discovered this summer that the staff of
the housing commission had issued the additional tax credits despite the ongoing
investigation.

In 2005, Hennessey was promised more than $13 million in state and federal tax
credits from the commission to be given over a span of 10 years for the 220-unit
apartment complex that is now nearly completed near Highways K and 40. The tax
credits enable the developers to rent a portion of the apartments at reduced
rates.

Although the vote was 4-2 to block the additional credits, the motion needed six
votes to pass. Kinder and Baalmaan voted against the motion. Two other members
were absent.

Mayor Donna Morrow said Kinder, as lieutenant governor, should have followed
Gov. Matt Blunt's policy on illegal immigration and voted to stop the additional
tax credits.

In August, in response to the issues at Southernside, Blunt held a press
conference at O'Fallon City Hall to announce a high-profile crackdown on illegal
immigrants and labor in the state.

The heated issue has also angered some Hispanic-American leaders who called for
the resignation of Blunt's chief of staff, Ed Martin. Martin came under fire for
what the leaders termed racist and demeaning remarks to immigrants when he
interviewed Hennessey at an August Housing Development Commission meeting.

Hennessey said Kinder and Baalmann understand that revoking promised tax credits
could seriously affect the commission's ability to sell credits to investors in
the future. Doing so would make the state a bad investment risk, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Controversial tax credits granted

BYLINE: By Joel Currier ST. LOUIS POST DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: O'FALLON, MO.


The state housing development commission has awarded a beleaguered housing
project nearly $9 million more in tax credits.

The Missouri Housing Development Commission last week approved $8.85 million
more in state and federal tax credits over 10 years to cover some construction
costs for Gundaker Commercial Group, developer of the 266-unit O'Fallon Lakes
apartment complex. Gundaker had been eligible for up to $10.7 million in credits
over 10 years.

After illegal workers were found at the site, Gundaker took over the development
and used local union trade contractors to finish the job.

Brandon Laster, spokesman for the state's housing commission, said Wednesday the
decision was not meant to reward job sites with undocumented workers.

"Our goal was to get this project done for the least amount of cost to Missouri
taxpayers," Laster said. "We want to be sure that none of these job sites that
have state tax credits employ illegal workers. That's a top concern for us."

The $34.5 million project completed this fall had already received $1.4 million
in state and federal tax credits through the state housing commission and
another $14.6 million in tax-exempt bonds from the St. Charles County Industrial
Development Authority. Construction of the complex, which began in 2004, has
faced intense scrutiny after illegal immigrants found in O'Fallon said they were
working for subcontractors for the Cleveland-based firm NRP. Gundaker, a partner
in the project, later took over the development.

Mike Hejna, president of Gundaker, said the commission should have allocated the
maximum eligible tax credit because his company is facing a $7 million shortfall
stemming from higher loan payments as well as increased labor and material
costs.

"We stepped in to fix a problem that we didn't cause," Hejna said. "We would
have been much better off walking away from the project, but the O'Fallon
community would have been negatively impacted."

O'Fallon City Administrator Robert Lowery Jr. said he is disappointed with the
commission's decision and criticized it for what he says is a failure to address
the practice of hiring illegal workers. The problem, he says, has twice hurt the
city over the past two years.

"That's where this whole mess began - with O'Fallon Lakes," Lowery said.

Mayor Donna Morrow says the troubles over the O'Fallon Lakes development exposes
the lack of local government oversight in state-supported affordable housing
projects.

Last Thursday, prosecutors accused an Oklahoma-based drywall company of using
bogus Social Security numbers for workers building another apartment complex in
O'Fallon, and avoiding paying state withholding tax. The 220-unit
affordable-housing complex, Southernside, is partly funded by more than $26
million in state and federal tax credits and tax-exempt bonds. The site has been
linked to illegal immigrant workers by city and union officials.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 2007



CORRECTION: The Missouri Housing Development Commission has awarded a $2.85
million tax credit increase to Gundaker Commercial Group's affordable-housing
project, O'Fallon Lakes. An incorrect figure was reported in some editions of
Thursday's Metro section.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Report: Politics influenced Gonzales aides in hirings

BYLINE: By Lara Jakes Jordan the Associated Press Laurie Kellman and Jennifer
Loven of The Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Top aides to former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales broke the law by letting
politics influence the hiring of career prosecutors and immigration judges at
the Justice Department, says an internal report Monday.

Gonzales was largely unaware of the hiring decisions by two of his most trusted
aides, according to the report by Justice's Office of Inspector General and
Office of Professional Responsibility.

But it singles out his former White House liaison, Monica Goodling, for
violating federal law and Justice Department policy by discriminating against
job applicants who weren't Republican or conservative loyalists.

"Goodling improperly subjected candidates for certain career positions to the
same politically based evaluation she used on candidates for political
positions," the report concluded.

In one instance, Justice investigators found, Goodling objected to hiring an
assistant prosecutor in Washington because "judging from his résumé, he appeared
to be a liberal Democrat."

In another, she rejected an experienced terrorism prosecutor to work on
counterterrorism issues "because of his wife's political affiliations," the
report found. It also found she rejected at least one job applicant who was
rumored to be a lesbian.

Additionally, a majority of immigration judge candidates considered by former
Gonzales Chief of Staff Kyle Sampson were recommended by the White House's
political affairs office - including one name forwarded by then-top adviser Karl
Rove. Sampson told investigators that he did not consider those jobs to be
protected from political considerations.

The 140-page report does not indicate whether Goodling or Sampson could face any
charges. None of those involved in the discriminatory hiring still work at
Justice, meaning they will avoid any departmental penalties.

Gonzales said in a statement that "political considerations should play no part
in the hiring of career officials at the Department of Justice. ... I agree with
the report's recommendations."

closer to home

The report also says the former U.S. attorney for the Western District of
Missouri rated some job candidates based on their conservative political
credentials.

The report finds that Bradley Schlozman described three applicants for the U.S.
attorney's office in Kansas City as conservative loyalists in an effort to curry
favor with top Justice officials.

None of the candidates was hired. But Goodling and another official had approved
Schlozman's request to hire a "good American."

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current What do you think of the report's conclusions? Talk about
it in Current Affairs.

Get more STLtoday.com/links Read the report.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bill O'Reilly, Geraldo Rivera have shouting match on TV

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: EVERYDAY; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 210 words


Bill O'Reilly and Geraldo Rivera said Friday there were no hard feelings after
they engaged in a shouting match unusual even for a cable opinion program where
the volume is frequently set to loud.

No chairs flew and no noses were broken. But the finger-pointing verbal duel
over illegal immigration on Fox News Channel's "The O'Reilly Factor" Thursday
night became a water-cooler topic the next day.

"Geraldo is a friend of mine and I think I respect him even more now, if that's
possible, than I did before," O'Reilly told The Associated Press on Friday. But
they disagree passionately on the issue, he said.

"I've known him for 25 years," O'Reilly said. "Geraldo doesn't come on to pick a
fight."

Rivera said his sensitivity to a "massive witch-hunt" against illegal immigrants
set him off Thursday.

The two men were discussing the case of Alfredo Ramos, a man charged with
manslaughter and suspected of being drunk when his car crashed into another in
Virginia Beach last Friday. Two teen-aged girls were killed. Ramos, a Mexican
who has been in the United States seven years, is allegedly in the country
illegally.

"He doesn't have a right to be in this country," O'Reilly said. He said he
wanted immigration laws enforced while Rivera favored "open-border anarchy."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

'Virtual wall' designed to halt illegal entries Border Patrol chief expects most
of a 700-mile stretch of Mexico border to get high-tech system.

BYLINE: By Julie Watson the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY -


A high-tech "virtual wall" will detect more than 95 percent of illegal crossings
at the busiest jumping-off point along the U.S.-Mexico border, the U.S. Border
Patrol chief said Thursday.

In a videoconference with reporters in Mexico, David Aguilar predicted that the
so-called "virtual wall" of lights, ground sensors and cameras - reinforced by
more agents - will essentially halt illegal crossings along the Arizona border,
the busiest section for clandestine entries.

Officials expect to complete 28 miles of the high-tech system in Arizona by
June, and by next year it should run into New Mexico and parts of Texas.

Eventually, the integrated system will cover sections along the entire border,
from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas.

"We will be able to identify, detect and classify more than 95 percent of
illegal entries with the virtual wall," Aguilar said.

Detentions along the U.S.-Mexico border already have dropped by 30 percent from
October 2006 to this week, compared to the same period last year, Aguilar said -
a reduction officials attribute to fewer attempted crossings. In 2006, 1.1
million migrants were detained.

He attributed the fall to President George W. Bush's deployment of 6,000
National Guard troops to the border, the addition of more than 700 Border Patrol
agents this fiscal year and new strategies.

Along a 210-mile stretch in west Texas, detentions have dropped 65 percent since
the start of a federal project called Operation Streamline, which jails and
prosecutes illegal immigrants found crossing there.

Aguilar said far fewer emigrants have been seen at traditional staging points in
Mexico and that agents have not seen a shift to new crossing areas along the
border.

Congress has approved 700 miles of fence for the border and has allowed
officials to decide whether to build metal fences or virtual walls.

Aguilar expects most of the distance will be covered by the virtual barrier,
with metal walls kept to a minimum.

The U.S. government is adding 70 miles of metal walls this year and 225 miles
next year. The barriers are being built primarily in Arizona, which has seen the
largest flow of illegal migrants since a U.S. crackdown in Texas and California
more than a decade ago funneled people into its remote desert.

Mexican President Felipe Calderon has likened the barriers to the Berlin Wall.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 14, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

It may be time for journalists to fret about outsourcing

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 660 words


Not long ago, I needed a new roof and although the roofing company I hired was
local, the roofers were not. They were all from Mexico. I asked the foreman if
the workers had green cards. After a moment's hesitation, he said, "Most of
them." I wrote a column about it.

I received a very thoughtful e-mail from Tracy D.

"In your column on Wednesday, you said that you didn't care if your roofers had
green cards. This says two things about you. You're not prejudiced against
illegal immigrants. Your job is not threatened by illegal immigrants.

"If as many of these illegal immigrants were coming to the U.S. to be
journalists as are coming to do construction work, I think you would have a
different opinion, but then I wouldn't know your opinion because I'd be reading
a column written by an illegal immigrant who was willing to work for less than
half of your salary with no benefits. You, on the other hand, would be in the
unemployment line wondering why other Americans didn't care if their columnists
had green cards."

That certainly put things in a different light. I read that note, and thought
about it, and admitted to myself that Tracy was 100 percent right.

But then I put it out of my mind. The newspaper business is filled with problems
right now, but at least reporters don't have to worry about illegal immigrants
taking our jobs. Nor do we have to worry about the bosses outsourcing our work.
Reporting is like window-washing. It has to be done locally.

Then somebody sent me a Newsweek story about PasadenaNow.com.

PasadenaNow.com is an online community magazine in California. The owner, James
Macpherson, used to be in the clothing manufacturing business. You can guess
what he learned in that business. Macpherson has decided that technology now
allows even reporting to be outsourced. He has hired two reporters in India.

"In Pasadena, our city council meetings are televised on the Internet," he told
Newsweek. "They can be seen anywhere. Our mayor actually watched a city council
meeting when he was traveling in China, so I saw that precedent. And also our
city council meetings go until the wee hours of the morning. Few reporters
actually stay to the end of those meetings in person. Put it all together, and I
think we have a chance for somebody who is fresh. In India, it is 7 in the
morning, and from 7 until lunchtime they can watch, analyze and transcribe
exactly what happened. So I'm hoping it's a much better service for the citizens
of this city than perhaps they've been getting."

Macpherson said he can transmit information to his reporters in India. They can
even write profiles without actually talking to the subjects.

He figures he will be paying his Indian reporters about a quarter of what he
would have to pay an inexperienced American reporter. Plus, of course, no
benefits.

I have met a number of computer people who have lost their jobs to outsourcing.
Who would have thought it? Years ago, when these people went into the
information technology field, it must have seemed like such a wise choice. They
were ahead of the curve.

Then the manufacturing jobs went overseas. I remember being shocked when I heard
that radiologists were in trouble. Why pay a doctor here to read an X-ray when
technology allows us to have somebody overseas read the same X-ray for a
fraction of the cost?

But journalism? Newsweek asked Macpherson if he didn't feel something was being
lost when the reporters covering Pasadena had never been there and knew nothing
about the local issues except what he told them.

"The answer is yes," he said. "But on the other hand, I know what is being lost
by the local newspapers cutting back on their coverage and telling reporters
they don't have to go to the city hall meetings any longer. That's even worse."

Who knows? It's perfectly legal to outsource jobs, but still, maybe I should
have given a little more thought to the workers who had been replaced by the
roofers who came to my house not so long ago.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 23, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A43

LENGTH: 1123 words


Americans want secure borders, laws enforced

The editorial "Leaky borders and limited lives" (June 12) opined that if the
recent rejection of immigration bill were to hold, these would be some of the
consequences:

- Twelve million illegal aliens would continue to live in America as members of
an underclass: Not true if we enforced current laws and deport illegals
immediately, as is allowable under current law.

- Their numbers would grow as more sneak into the country: Not true if we
enforced current laws and turned back people caught crossing illegally. Instead,
we put them into local jails and release them into society. Building a fence may
not be necessary, but it would be effective. Increased border patrol activities
would be required along with deporting those caught immediately.

- Unscrupulous employers would continue to hire illegals and laugh at the law:
Not true if we enforced current laws and penalized employers who violate the law
and immediately deport those caught in the sting operations.

Why do we need a new bill with new loopholes and new statutes that won't be
enforced? Putting a man on the moon was possible because the nation had the will
to do it. We can stop the flow of illegals into our country if we simply put the
effort into it.

Compromise legislation of the type the Post-Dispatch encourages would be no
better than the 1986 amnesty that was supposed to put an end to the problem.
Instead of 3 million illegals in 1986, we now have at least 12 million illegals.

The American people want secure borders and existing laws enforced.

Kevin Haynes | Eureka

Not good for America

Amnesty for illegal aliens might be good for Chamber of Commerce members and
George Soros, but it definitely is not in the best interest of America, its
workers or its taxpayers.

The staggering costs to Americans in lost jobs, lowered wages, crowded schools,
closed hospital emergency rooms and increased gangs are rarely if ever alluded
to by the open-border advocates who constantly defend illegal aliens and demand
entitlements for them. If the government were serious about immigration, it
would enforce the existing immigration laws. Simply enforce the rule of law and
build the fence.

Ed Mays | St. Louis County

Collision course

U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., needs to stay in Washington and vote against
the immigration bill. The proposed amnesty would have an impact on every
American's way of life. Between China and Mexico, our country is on a collision
course with disaster. Every working legal citizen should protest the way
Congress is giving, selling and trading away America.

Jo Thiel | Carlyle, Ill.

Pleased with progress

In his column "The sly shadings of biased media language" (June 18), Jonah
Goldberg accuses Time magazine of "liberal bias" for supporting the legislative
actions of California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and New York Mayor Michael
Bloomberg. The initiatives cited by Mr. Goldberg dealt largely with the
protection of the public's health and well-being (Mr. Schwarzennegger's support
of stem cell research, and Mr. Bloomberg's trans-fat and smoking bans).

Mr. Goldberg says that even the vocabulary of media coverage is biased for using
words like "reform" and "progress" when describing legislation that promotes the
public's health and well-being. He subscribes to the theory that "the government
that governs least governs best." This philosophy teaches that people would do
what's best and right for all if the government would just leave them alone.

Tell that to the employees and investors of Enron, Worldcom and Tyco
International, to name a few. The government took action after a spate of
horrendous accounting scandals robbed millions of investors of their savings and
tossed thousands more into the unemployment line. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was
enacted in 2002 to establish higher standards for corporate behavior and provide
oversight to protect the public interest in business affairs. I, for one, call
that progress.

Mr. Goldberg seems to think that Congress should avoid striving for "progress"
by steering clear of contentious social issues such as immigration reform. One
might wonder if he feels the same way about congressional action on other social
issues, like those that brought about the Civil Rights Act, Clean Air Act and
Americans with Disabilities Act.

If laws such as these don't constitute progress, what does?

Paul Schulte | Affton

Better answers

The Democratic contenders for president all promised to withdraw from Iraq if
elected. We all know that if that happens, Iraq will be infiltrated by Iran and
al-Qaida, both of which have sworn to America's destruction. We should be
demanding better answers and alternatives for complex issues from these
presidential hopefuls. They should have a plan that's good for the people of
United States, Iraq and the world - not a sound bite. We deserve more and should
demand it from these hopefuls.

Daniel Moskowitz | St Louis County

Stop the violence

Missouri has taken a step backwards in deciding to kill inmates. We all know
that killing does not stop killing. Generally, states without the death penalty
have lower murder rates than states with the death penalty. A New York Times
review in 2000 of murder rates over the past 20 years found that the murder rate
in states with the death penalty is 48 percent to 101 percent higher than in
non-death penalty states.

When contiguous states are compared, a state without the death penalty usually
has a lower murder rate than a neighboring state with the death penalty.

More sophisticated studies of deterrence and the death penalty have failed to
show a conclusive effect. Expert criminologists from around the country were
polled on their views of such studies and 84 percent concluded that the death
penalty did not act as a deterrent to murder.

We will not be a bit safer because of executions. Society is safe with murderers
serving life sentences without parole. The lengthy appeals cost Missouri far
more than it would to house them for life without parole.

Diana Oleskevich | St. Louis

Taking a life

After reading "Move to set execution date is called 'blatantly premature'" (June
17), I have a few questions for Attorney General Jay Nixon: What does capital
punishment accomplish? Does it bring back to life the victims? Does the
perpetrator suffer? Not really. He will be dead. Does it deter such heinous
crime? We have had capital punishment for years, and murder continues.

From my experience in World War II and Korea as an infantry officer, I believe
the only legitimate reason to take another life is to prevent that person from
taking your life.

The question, then, is what do we do with convicted murderers? Put them in jail
for life and put them to work.

N.D. Gale | Ballwin

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 14, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 344 words


TIJUANA, MEXICO

Deported activist's son rejoins mother in Mexico

The eight-year-old son of a Mexican woman deported from the United States
because she was an undocumented migrant has joined his mother in Mexico.

The boy, Saul Arellano, was taken Thursday to his mother, Elvira Arellano.

Arellano told a news conference in Tijuana that her son, who was born in the
United States and is therefore an American citizen, would enter third grade in
her native state of Michoacan.

But Arellano said she would continue to travel and work for immigration reform
in Mexico City and the border city of Tijuana on behalf of her Latin Family
United organization.

"I am not going to stay away from Tijuana," where she has been invited to
participated in a church-supported migrant-aid project, Arellano said.

LIMA, PERU

Blood banks closed after HIV infections

Peruvian officials have closed the country's 240 blood banks after at least four
people were infected with HIV from blood transfusions in a public hospital.

Health Minister Carlos Vallejos said Thursday that the blood banks will be
inspected by a commission that will include officials from the World Health
Organization.

A Health Ministry investigation found that Judith Rivera, a 44-year-old mother
of four, was infected with the virus after receiving blood transfusions during
an operation for a tumor in her uterus in April at a state hospital in Callao,
Lima's port city.

Vallejos confirmed three other cases, including that of an 11-month-old infant,
all at the same hospital.

TOKYO

Ruling party sets vote for new prime minister

Japan's ruling party rushed to fill a power vacuum left by the resignation of
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was hospitalized Thursday for exhaustion but
defended his snap decision to step down.

A party meeting to vote on a successor was set for Sept. 23. Some officials
wanted to hold the vote earlier, but it was put off to allow prospective
candidates time to prepare.

Abe, diagnosed with abdominal problems caused by stress and fatigue, will
continue to hold the post until his successor is named.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 26, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Blunt is sued over firing of contractor

BYLINE: By David A. Lieb THE Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


A lawsuit filed Thursday accuses Gov. Matt Blunt of racial discrimination and
abuse of power for firing a state janitorial contractor that employed illegal
immigrants.

Blunt called the lawsuit "ludicrous" and defended his decision to cancel the
contract of Sam's Janitorial Services and bar the company from future state
work.

About 25 company employees of Latin American ancestry were arrested in a March 6
sting at a Jefferson City state office building by federal and state law
enforcement officers. The lawsuit says just eight of those people were charged
and only four have pleaded or been found guilty of possessing forged documents
showing they could work in the United States.

The lawsuit seeks to reinstate nine canceled contracts, asks to reverse the
company's ban from state work and requests an unspecified amount of money for
damages.

It claims Blunt exceeded his gubernatorial powers when he terminated the
contract and disqualified Sam's Janitorial from future state work.

It also alleges racial discrimination because Sam's Janitorial is owned by an
African-born U.S. citizen and the state contract was subsequently given to B&G
Cleaning, owned by white contractors. B&G Cleaning also had been the contractor
before Sam's Janitorial won the bid, and three of the four employees who
ultimately were found guilty had transferred to Sam's from B&G, the lawsuit
says.

"That's ludicrous," Blunt responded Thursday when asked about the lawsuit at a
Capitol news conference.

Blunt said he didn't know the race of the Sam's Janitorial owner, K.
Asamoah-Boadu, when he issued an executive order March 6 to cancel contracts
with any companies found to be using illegal immigrants.

The lawsuit by Asamoah-Boadu, filed in Cole County Circuit Court, claims
Asamoah-Boadu hired only those people who appeared to have proper work
documents. It says he provided the Missouri State Capitol Police and the state
Division of Purchasing and Materials Management with copies of Social Security
and worker registration cards for each employee who was not a U.S. citizen.

The state "approved each and every employee," the lawsuit says, and did not
notify him of any problems with the proposed workers.

In March, Blunt credited the state's manager of custodial operations for first
noticing inconsistencies in the janitorial employees' work documents. Capitol
Police were notified, and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
ultimately got involved in the investigation.

On Thursday, Blunt insisted that Sam's Janitorial Services had employed illegal
immigrants "in a very negligent way."

"This wasn't one or two people that might have slipped through the cracks of
employment verification, this was a large portion of his work force," Blunt
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Let's shoot for insured illegals, fewer voters

BYLINE: BILL McCLELLAN

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 779 words


Illegal aliens and drivers licenses are the Quemoy and Matsu of our time. Quemoy
and Matsu are islands off the coast of China. They were a big deal in the
presidential campaign of 1960. Who was strong enough to defend the islands from
the communists on the mainland? After the election, the issue was forgotten.

Now we have illegal aliens and drivers licenses. Who is strong enough to protect
U.S. citizens from illegal aliens with drivers licenses?

Missouri Gov. Matt Blunt is. This week he announced plans to make it illegal for
illegal aliens to get drivers licenses. Actually, it's already illegal, but now
it will be doubly illegal. It is also an issue in the presidential campaign. New
York Gov. Eliot Spitzer favored letting illegal aliens have licenses; and Sen.
Hillary Clinton, who will be campaigning in St. Louis Sunday, initially
understood his reasoning, but on second thought, she was tough enough to say no
to the illegal aliens. On third thought, so was Spitzer.

While Blunt, Spitzer and Clinton have been muscling up on this issue, Sergio
Lopez has been living it. He is the illegal alien who crashed an SUV into a
restaurant in Clayton a couple of months ago. He did not have a drivers license.
He does, however, have a wife and two daughters in Mexico. Before his arrest, he
was making about $500 a week washing dishes at two restaurants and sending most
of that money home. In other words, he is a fairly typical illegal alien.

What can we make of his story?

First of all, an illegal alien is not going to be deterred from driving because
he does not have a license. What are we going to tell him, that it's illegal?
He's an illegal alien. In all probability, he trekked across the desert to get
to this country, so he is not only illegal, he is determined.

Rather than deny illegal aliens the opportunity to get licenses, we ought to
encourage them to do so. After all, what do you need to get a drivers license?
Proof of insurance. If they're going to drive anyway - and they are - wouldn't
it be better if they had insurance? Lopez did not.

By the way, I called my insurance agent. Can a person get insurance without a
drivers license? No, she said. So we are forcing illegal aliens to drive without
insurance. Does that make sense?

Of course, it doesn't, but this issue is not really about driving. It's about
voting. Because of the Motor Voter Act by which a person can register to vote
when he or she gets a license, many people fear that illegal aliens will somehow
become voters. By "many people," I mean Republicans. They are convinced that
illegal aliens would largely vote Democratic. They probably would. The Democrats
are soft on everything. They don't want to build a fence at the border because
it might disturb the animals. They don't want to attack Iran. They don't even
want to impeach Dick Cheney.

But here is the thing: There is room for compromise. The Democrats ought to
agree to throw out the Motor Voter Act. I never liked it, anyway. It dilutes the
votes of those of us who are willing to go to a library to register. Why would
we want to dilute the votes of those who can find a library? I know why. The
Democrats used to count on the votes of the people who couldn't find a library.
In the old days, Republicans had higher IQs. Oh sure, there were a few inbred
people at the country club, but for the most part, Republicans were
well-educated and at least moderately intelligent. Democrats were the masses.
That was probably still true in 1993 when a Democratic Congress pushed through
the Motor Voter Act.

But things have changed. They've evened out. These days, if you think the Earth
is 6,000 years old, you're a Republican.

Not that I'm pushing evolution. As regular readers know, I think evolution
suggests improvement. An opposable thumb is better than a nonopposable thumb,
and so on. I believe in devolution. Things get worse. The evidence is
everywhere. When our country was new and we had fewer than 3 million people and
almost no schools, George Washington was our president. Two hundred and eighteen
years later, with a pool of more than 300 million from which to fish for
leaders, George W. Bush is our president. He is a graduate of our finest private
universities. Washington to Bush. Does this seem like evolution to you?

By the way, when Washington was elected in 1789, voter turnout was estimated at
about 12 percent. So what is wrong with a low voter turnout?

So let's shoot for a low voter turnout ourselves. We'll scrap Motor Voter. Then
nobody will have to worry about illegal aliens voting. They can get drivers
licenses. They can get insurance. And with that out of the way, we can worry
about Quemoy and Matsu again.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Responding to readers can be challenging without a spine

BYLINE: BILL McCLELLAN

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 713 words


Let's turn the day over to readers.

Giving drivers licenses to illegal immigrants is in fact legalizing them. This
is how you punish people who have no respect for the laws and sovereignty of our
country??? This will only entice more to come just like sanctuary cities have
done. Your comparison of illegal immigration to defense of islands off the coast
of China is a complete joke. The reason we have 20 million people in this
country illegally is because of spineless people like you."

- American Patriot

Dear American: Spineless am I? Well, I guess if you say so. I don't want to
fight about it.

Bill, When I read your opinion, I wonder if you believe we should have any laws.
This country is great because we are a nation of laws. Sergio Lopez broke a
number of laws before he crashed his SUV. He is here illegally. He is driving
without a license. He has no auto insurance. Now he has caused bodily injury and
property damage that he can't pay for. If you were sitting in that restaurant
and were injured, would you feel the same way? Or would you expect him to take
responsibility for his actions? - Ed P.

Dear Ed: Lopez did break a number of laws, but driving without a license? It's
illegal for an illegal alien to get a license, so he would have been breaking a
law had he had one. Again, I'm not defending illegal aliens. I'm merely pointing
out that without a drivers license, a person cannot get insurance, and I would
think we would want to encourage everybody, even illegal aliens, to have
insurance.

Dear Bill McClellan, I always cringe a bit before reading your column, wondering
what kind of boneheaded pablum you will be feeding the masses. Some days, I just
skip it. Occasionally, you surprise me and I actually like the column, but today
was no exception. My beef? You continue to portray tax incentives for city
development as being wrong or somehow not fair, which is amazingly boneheaded.
Perhaps you never actually talk, nay listen, to any of those economists you name
in your article. Your column today reminds me of a witch doctor shaking his
rattle at the business people and city people actually working to make the city
better while you dance and rattle and shout that their work is EVIL, and only
you and your dancing words and mental gyrations can make things clear to us all.

- Mike W.

Dear Mike: Let me shake my rattle and dance around for a minute while I consider
this. Hay-ya, hay-ya, hay-ya, hay-ya. All right. I still think it's unfair to
current businesses that have been paying taxes and supporting the city for years
to give tax breaks to new businesses. Especially when some of these new
businesses will be competing with some of the old businesses. Why would we give
a tax break to a chain restaurant in Ballpark Village when it will be competing
against a locally owned restaurant that has been paying taxes for years? It's
wrong. It's evil. Hay-ya, hay-ya, hay-ya, hay-ya.

Bill: Before you take task with someone you should make sure your numbers are
correct. Where I went to school, one percent of $13.5 million is $135,000, not
$13,500. I think most people wouldn't have any problem doing what Tom Jacobsen
did to save $135,000. - Jerry C.

Dear Jerry: My math might have been wrong - OK, it was wrong - but it was still
a chintzy thing to move his office out of the city into Clayton so he would not
have to pay earnings tax on the payoff when he sold Mercantile. And I still
think that if that extra $135,000 meant that much to him, he could have asked
the people buying the bank to give him $13.6 million instead of $13.5 million.
What's $135,000 among friends?

So you think Joyce Meyer is a charlatan?? That's funny coming from you. I don't
watch her or send her money or even advocate her message about gaining wealth
through Jesus, but even if she does that, her preaching damn straight wouldn't
include sitting back and letting the government take care of you. That's the
message YOU preach.

- Suzanne W.

Dear Suzanne: It's a popular message. Why work? Uncle Sugar will take care of
us.

Dear Bill, From reading your column, I know you are something of a bigot, but I
read it anyway, to see how you are going to present your bigotry in the most
favorable light so that maybe people won't notice it. - Opal C.

Dear Opal: It's always a challenge.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Boeing's virtual fence on border gets final OK

BYLINE: By Eileen Sullivan THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Tim Logan of the Post-Dispatch
contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A 28-mile virtual fence that will use radars and surveillance cameras to try to
catch people entering the country illegally has gotten final government
approval. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced approval of the
fence on Friday. The fence, built by the Boeing Co., uses technology the
government plans to extend to other areas of the Arizona border, as well as to
sections of Texas.

The project could get under way as early as this summer, said department
spokeswoman Laura Keehner. The virtual fence is part of a national plan to
secure the southwest border with physical barriers and high-tech detection
capabilities intended to stop illegal immigrants on foot and drug smugglers in
vehicles. As of Thursday, 302 miles of fencing had been constructed. Chertoff
said the virtual fence already is working. On Feb. 13, an officer in a Tucson,
Ariz., command center - 70 miles from the border - noticed about 100 people
gathered at the border. The officer notified agents on the ground and in the
air. Border Patrol caught 38 of the 100 people who tried to cross illegally, and
the others went back into Mexico, said a Homeland Security official who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The virtual fence system includes 98-foot unmanned
surveillance towers equipped with an array of sophisticated technology,
including radar, sensors and cameras capable of distinguishing people from
cattle at a distance of about 10 miles. The cameras are powerful enough to tell
group sizes and whether people are carrying backpacks that may contain weapons
or drugs. "I have personally witnessed the value of this system, and I have
spoken directly to the Border Patrol agents who are involved in operating that
system over the last few months and who have seen it produce actual results in
terms of identifying and allowing the apprehension of people who are illegally
smuggling across the border," Chertoff said. The virtual fence has been a
high-profile project for Boeing's St. Louis-based defense unit and stands to be
worth billions of dollars over the next few years if Homeland Security follows
through on plans to build it across the entire southern border. But the project
was plagued by glitches and delayed for much of 2007, and critics in Congress
blasted Boeing for promising more than it could deliver. The company changed its
top executives on the program and refined some technology before Homeland
Security gave preliminary acceptance in December. --- Talk STLtoday.com/current
- Talk about the fence in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

It's tough to get tough, state finds

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF The
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


Businesses Opposed o Databases are unreliable, they say.

Legislators Leery o They say it would be easy to get around laws.

Some back it o Problems can be worked out, supporters say.

---

Getting tough on illegal immigrants has been a popular rallying cry for
Republican leaders. But two months into the legislative session, no bills have
advanced.

A public hearing on Wednesday showed why.

On the agenda were measures requiring residency checks before people could get
jobs on taxpayer-funded construction projects, attend state colleges and
universities or receive state or local public services.

But a parade of witnesses representing employers, nonprofits and universities
testified that the bills would pose practical problems. They ranged from
conflicts with federal law to reliance on a flawed federal database for checking
residency.

Sen. Jason Crowell, who chaired the committee hearing, said those problems could
be addressed, and changes discussed at the hearing neutralized some of the
big-business opposition.

For example, no longer would the measure include $25,000 fines for each
"unauthorized alien" hired on a state-subsidized project if the contractor or
subcontractor knew or "should have known" that a person lacked federal work
papers.

Under the new wording, businesses with state contracts would be penalized for
hiring an undocumented worker only if "clear and convincing evidence" proved
that the employer knew the worker was in the country illegally.

While making concessions to business, Crowell, R-Cape Girardeau, and other
Republicans dismissed philosophical objections to the bills from a pro-immigrant
coalition called Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates.

The coalition, which includes civil rights and labor groups, said that in
addition to being unworkable, the proposals would encourage discrimination
against legal immigrants.

Another opponent, the Missouri Catholic Conference, singled out a provision
barring illegal immigrants from attending state colleges and universities. The
group's lobbyist, Mike Hoey, said youths who are brought here at age 2 or 3 lack
legal status "through no fault of their own."

"As Americans, we believe in the rule of law," Hoey said. "But we also believe
in compassion and we also believe in rewarding people that work hard."

Senators said they have a duty to make sure taxpayer-paid benefits don't go to
illegal immigrants.

"There's nothing against immigration in general in this bill," said Sen. Gary
Nodler, R-Joplin. "We're dealing with illegal, undocumented aliens."

State Treasurer Sarah Steelman urged legislators to enact tough penalties. She
chaired the Missouri Housing Development Commission when subsidized housing
projects in St. Charles County were found to be employing undocumented workers.

Steelman said a study shows that illegal workers cost the state between $26.4
million and $49.1 million in lost income taxes.

"We're heading in the right direction, to make sure we strengthen the law
because it's up to us to protect the taxpayers of Missouri," she said. Her
office later backed off the numbers Steelman cited while maintaining the cost to
the state was "significant."

Rep. Ryan McKenna, D-Crystal City, questioned whether the proposed penalties
would do any good. For example, if they are caught with illegal workers,
employers could lose their state business licenses. But nothing would prevent
them from reorganizing and getting new licenses.

"It would be kind of a cat-and-mouse game, where you just change the name of
your company and keep doing the same thing," McKenna said.

Jack Atterberry, who lobbies for the Associated General Contractors of Missouri,
said the federal verification system, known as E-verify, uses a Social Security
database, which has a 4 percent error rate.

"You have a good intention, and if the system worked as it should, it would be a
good tool for employers," he said. "But only the federal government can make the
investment to make sure the system works."

In other testimony, nonprofit groups worried that they would have to check
everyone's residency before providing services to the poor. Colleges and
universities worried that they'd have to verify the residency of everyone who
applied for admission, even though many will never enroll. And public libraries
worried that they would have to check every patron's residency before loaning
them books.

Crowell drew the line at that.

"I don't think the issue we're trying to get to is illegals checking out library
books," he said. Crowell said he hopes to have a comprehensive immigration bill
ready for a vote next week.

The bills are: SBs 751, 858, 927, 1186 and 1255.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  The Issue of Immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Hulshof introduces his crime package

BYLINE: By Paul Hampel ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: CLAYTON


Missouri gubernatorial candidate Kenny Hulshof introduced a crime package
Tuesday at a campaign stop in Clayton that focuses on Internet crimes, "truth in
sentencing," illegal immigration and prescription drug abuse.

"It is the duty of government to keep us safe, but with the Internet, it seems
as if law enforcement is always playing catch-up with cutting-edge technology,"
said Hulshof, a Republican from Columbia now serving in Congress.

In addition to working with the state Legislature, Hulshof would seek federal
funds to form a cyber crimes task force in Missouri.

Hulshof also proposed the "blending of law enforcement resources" to stop all
crimes, and the coordination of pharmacy computers to thwart prescription drug
abuse.

Joining Hulshof at Memorial Park behind the St. Louis County administration
building was state Rep. Bob Onder, R-Lake Saint Louis, a candidate for
Hulshoff's seat in Congress. Onder was the sponsor of the state's new
immigration reform law, which includes measures that crack down on employers who
hire illegal workers.

Hulshof vowed to work with Onder to enforce the new law.

"Our federal government has been unable and unwilling to enforce those laws, so
we must get funding and tools for local authorities to deal with it," Hulshof
said.

Hulshof's package would require felons to serve at least 85 percent of their
sentences.

Hulshof will face state Treasurer Sarah Steelman in the Republican primary. The
Democratic nominee is expected to be state Attorney General Jay Nixon.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Senators agree to debate controversial immigration bill

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate on Monday agreed to consider a bill legalizing millions of
undocumented immigrants after supporters won a critical test vote and then
turned to face a barrage of amendments that could unravel the compromise
measure.

The bill cleared its first parliamentary hurdle when the Senate voted 69-23 to
begin at least two weeks of debate, giving the White House and a bipartisan
coalition of senators an opening victory in their push to overhaul the nation's
immigration system.

But the vote - nine more than the required 60-vote "supermajority" needed -
marked only a wobbly starting point as critics in both parties readied dozens of
amendments for the ensuing days of debate on the bill

Senators quickly acknowledged they would be unable to finish work before leaving
on a Memorial Day recess at the end of the week, a delay that could widen
divisions as senators return home to face constituents. Debate will continue for
another week after they return on June 4.

"We shouldn't be in a hurry to finish this bill," said Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.

Members in both parties were readying several dozen amendments aimed at
virtually every major feature in the bill. An early confrontation over a
proposed guest worker program is expected today when Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M.,
attempts to sharply reduce the numbers permitted into the program each year.

The guest worker program, backed by the White House and a broad coalition of
businesses, could bring in up to 600,000 workers a year to fill low-skilled
jobs. Bingaman's amendment, identical to one that the Senate approved 79-18 last
year, would reduce the cap to 200,000, a level that business groups say is
woefully inadequate to meet a chronic labor shortage.

Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., hopes to dismantle the guest worker program entirely,
saying it would take away jobs from U.S. workers and exacerbate hardships in
economically distressed areas of the country. In contrast, pro-immigration
groups and Hispanics want to recast the temporary worker program to enable
participants to get on track for citizenship instead of returning to their home
countries when their visas expire.

The bill has come under fire from all points of the political spectrum since it
was unveiled last week by a bipartisan group of senators and the White House
after three months of negotiations. But supporters say the bill is the essence
of compromise, offering something for everyone while satisfying no one
completely.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Will lawmakers be able to agree on an immigration bill?
What do you think it should say? Talk about it in Current Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 7, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

(INNOVATION - I)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 187 words


The reverse brain drain

More than 1 million skilled immigrant workers are competing for 120,000
permanent U.S. resident visas each year, creating a sizable imbalance likely to
fuel a "reverse brain drain" with skilled workers returning to their home
countries, according to a new report released by the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation. Foreign nationals living in the United States were named as
inventors or co-inventors in 25.6 percent of international patent applications
filed from the United States in 2006.

See the full report at www.kauffman.org/item.cfm?item=906.

The Intellectual property advantage

A new study finds that two-thirds of the value of American large manufacturers
comes from intellectual property, mainly in the form of patents and trademarks.
The study finds that intellectual property-intensive firms greatly outperform
their counterparts. The report concludes by recommending that policymakers do a
better job of protecting U.S.-based intellectual property, as these assets
represent a critical competitive advantage for American manufacturers.

To check out the full report, go to www.the-value-of-ip.org

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  INNOVATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (Statue of Liberty)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Lawn care firms fret as efforts to renew bill stall Exemption to H-2B guest
worker program ran out Oct. 1. Now jobs, businesses are at risk, owners say.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Bill Lambrecht of the Post-Dispatch
Washington Bureau contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 867 words


Scott Muehlhauser doesn't employ any immigrants, legal or otherwise, at his
landscaping equipment company, Scott's Power Equipment.

But he is worried that his company, and many others like it, will become
casualties of the running battle over immigration if a guest worker program that
legally brings thousands of landscapers from Mexico to metro St. Louis each year
is not renewed.

If that happens, dozens of local commercial landscape companies that use the
worker program will have to scale back dramatically next spring, including
Muehlhauser's customers. Some will close. Others will cancel contracts. They
certainly won't be buying any new riding mowers, he said.

"If they don't get their workers, I lose probably 50 percent of my business,"
Muehlhauser said. That is $3.5 million. "If I lose $3.5 million, I probably
won't be able to keep my doors open."

It is a problem that will be faced by other companies that supply the landscape
industry - truck dealerships, mulch makers, seed sellers - and it is a snapshot
of how deeply immigration, both legal and not, is intertwined with the region's
economy.

Far from the hot spots of the border states or the halls of Congress, dozens of
St. Louis-area companies are closely watching this relatively obscure guest
worker program, and many say their future depends on it.

It is called the H-2B visa program, and it is designed to bring in workers for
nine months to fill seasonal jobs that employers say they can't find Americans
to do. It is popular with hotels in some resort areas, with fish processing
plants on the East Coast, and with landscaping companies, dozens of whom
imported 2,700 workers to the St. Louis area alone last year to mow, trim and
mulch in the summer heat for $8 or $10 an hour.

Nationally, the government caps the program at 66,000 workers a year, though
demand has grown fast and two years ago returning workers were exempted from the
cap. Now the real number of workers participating in the program is much higher:
estimates start at 100,000. But on Oct. 1, that exemption ran out, cutting the
program back to 66,000, and efforts to renew it are stalled in Congress.

If nothing changes, local landscapers say, they won't be able to fill jobs next
spring. Half of the 66,000 slots already have been gobbled up by ski resorts and
other winter seasonal industries; the other half won't be available until April,
when landscaping season here is already under way, and competition will be
fierce.

"It's probably going to be the most challenging spring I've ever seen," said
Fred Haskell, president of U.S. Lawns in Defiance. He hired 18 workers through
the program last year, out of 27 total employees. Next year, he hopes to bring
in 22, with a total staff of 30. If he can't, he is not sure what he will do,
but he knows he will be earning, and spending a lot less money.

That message, and the argument they are playing by the rules and not hiring
illegals, is one that local landscapers carried to Washington last week to press
lawmakers for a solution. But given the hard-edged politics surrounding
immigration, the likelihood of one remains unclear.

A measure to continue the current system and allow returning workers has passed
the Senate but met opposition in the House-Senate conference from some Hispanic
lawmakers who said they object to dealing with immigration-related matters on a
piecemeal basis. Now it is caught up in negotiations aimed at a broad spending
bill, according to congressional aides.

A spokeswoman for Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., said Bond supported
extending the law. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., generally opposes extending
guest worker programs until problems in them can be worked out.

The plan has drawn fire from critics, like the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, who say it depresses wages. Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the
Washington group that advocates for less immigration, calls landscapers'
arguments that they can't find Americans to fill their jobs "a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

"There are countless examples of very difficult jobs Americans are willing to do
if they're paid properly," he said.

Gregg Rohlfing disagrees.

He runs the Greenwood Group, a St. Charles County landscaper, and 38 of his 50
employees are on H-2B visas. He has tried to hire Americans time and again, he
said, but doesn't have much luck. They don't apply. If they do, often they don't
last, he said; there are easier ways to make a buck.

So he relies on the visas, and particularly on a core of returning workers who
come back each year. His business has grown and he had planned to add two more
work crews, buying trucks, trailers and equipment worth $90,000 apiece, most of
it from Scott's Power Equipment. That buy is now on hold.

So are Muehlhauser's plans. His company has grown fast since he launched it six
years ago, with sales climbing sixfold. Today he has three stores, in Overland,
Arnold and O'Fallon, Ill.

"And I employ 15 American workers," he said.

He was planning to add four or five more early next year and to open a fourth
store. Instead, he is worried about keeping what he's got.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/talk What will happen if the legal immigration program isn't
extended? Give your view.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Mechanic Larry Kline tests a mower Monday at Scott's Power Equipment.
Owner Scott Muehlhauser says he will have to lay off workers if worker program
is not reinstated. J.B. Forbes | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Human rights group says Spain jails, abuses children from Africa

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 441 words


MADRID, SPAIN - A human rights group accused Spain on Thursday of keeping
migrant children from Africa in appalling conditions, including windowless cells
where they are beaten and denied access to toilets.

The report by New York-based Human Rights Watch said the abuses took place in
holding facilities on the Canary Islands, which lie off the northwest coast of
Africa. The islands have been swamped by a surge in African migration in recent
years.

The Canary Islands' regional government said its own investigation had uncovered
no evidence of such abuses. It said the conclusions were "based on
uncorroborated testimony from the children, and without, at any moment,
identifying those allegedly responsible."

No immediate comment came from the national government in Madrid. Although the
national government established the detention centers, the regional government
manages them.

More than 900 children, mostly boys from Senegal and Morocco, are crowded into
four detention centers on Spain's Canary Islands. Immigrants who are caught are
returned to their home countries, but the process can take months.

Simone Troller, European children's rights researcher for Human Rights Watch and
the report's author, said that under Spanish law, migrant children are not
allowed to be detained.

In practice, she said, they are "kept in almost prison-like conditions."

"They are not allowed to leave the centers on their own. They have to stay in
the compounds, and sometimes you have young children mixed with old children,"
Troller said.

The children detailed in the report, between 10 and 17 years of age, were among
some 30,000 immigrants who arrived illegally on the Canary Islands last year
aboard packed fishing boats from north and west Africa.

The report describes what the children called "a punishment cell" - a filthy,
windowless and airless room where some were beaten and locked up for several
days. Children had to urinate and defecate on the floor because they were not
allowed to go to the toilet, the report said. In another center, children
reported that one staff member had sexually abused them.

She also said that many children who had languished in the holding centers while
their cases were not reviewed by Spanish authorities.

"They have stayed there for six months, and they would say to me that I was the
first person to talk to them for five minutes," she said.

Human Rights Watch interviewed 75 of the children at the camps during a
three-week period in January. The report called on Spain to close the centers.

More than 900 children, mostly boys from Senegal and Morocco, are crowded into
four detention centers on Spain's Canary Islands.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Human rights group says Spain jails, abuses children from Africa

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: MADRID, SPAIN


A human rights group accused Spain on Thursday of keeping migrant children from
Africa in appalling conditions, including windowless cells where they are beaten
and denied access to toilets.

The report by New York-based Human Rights Watch said the abuses took place in
holding facilities on the Canary Islands, which lie off the northwest coast of
Africa. The islands have been swamped by a surge in African migration in recent
years.

The Canary Islands' regional government said its own investigation had uncovered
no evidence of such abuses. It said the conclusions were "based on
uncorroborated testimony from the children, and without, at any moment,
identifying those allegedly responsible."

No immediate comment came from the national government in Madrid. Although the
national government established the detention centers, the regional government
manages them.

More than 900 children, mostly boys from Senegal and Morocco, are crowded into
four detention centers on Spain's Canary Islands. Immigrants who are caught are
returned to their home countries, but the process can take months.

Simone Troller, European children's rights researcher for Human Rights Watch and
the report's author, said that under Spanish law, migrant children are not
allowed to be detained.

In practice, she said, they are "kept in almost prison-like conditions."

"They are not allowed to leave the centers on their own. They have to stay in
the compounds, and sometimes you have young children mixed with old children,"
Troller said.

The children detailed in the report, between 10 and 17 years of age, were among
some 30,000 immigrants who arrived illegally on the Canary Islands last year
aboard packed fishing boats from north and west Africa.

The report describes what the children called "a punishment cell" - a filthy,
windowless and airless room where some were beaten and locked up for several
days. Children had to urinate and defecate on the floor because they were not
allowed to go to the toilet, the report said. In another center, children
reported that one staff member had sexually abused them.

She also said that many children who had languished in the holding centers while
their cases were not reviewed by Spanish authorities.

"They have stayed there for six months, and they would say to me that I was the
first person to talk to them for five minutes," she said.

Human Rights Watch interviewed 75 of the children at the camps during a
three-week period in January. The report called on Spain to close the centers.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 848 words


ST. LOUIS

Man dies of wounds from funeral shooting

One of two people shot while exiting a funeral last week died Sunday.

The two were shot as they walked outside the A.L. Beal Mortuary at 4746 West
Florissant Avenue about 1 p.m. Tuesday. They were attending the funeral of
William L. Shockley, a murder victim.

David Love, 30, of the 8500 block of Drury Lane, was shot in the neck, left
shoulder and groin. He died at 5:05 p.m. Sunday, police said.

A second victim, who police did not identify, was shot twice in her left foot.

Two men fired at a crowd of mourners as they streamed outside the funeral home
on the way to the cemetery. The men then jumped into a car and drove east on
West Florissant, police said.

ST. LOUIS

3 immigrant smugglers get year in prison

Three brothers convicted of smuggling illegal immigrants into the United States
to work in their roofing business have been sentenced to one year in federal
prison each, officials announced Monday.

Juan Gutierrez, 35, and Jenaro Gutierrez, 34, both of Edmundson, were sentenced
Monday on the charge of smuggling, transporting and harboring illegal aliens.
Their brother, Jeronimo Gutierrez, 32, of Berkeley, was sentenced last week.

The men's mother, Olivia Zepeda, who lives in Juventino, Mexico, recruited
people who would sign a contract to work for her sons' business, Golden Roofing,
LLC. Zepeda arranged for the workers to ride a bus to a border town, where a
smuggler would take them across the Rio Grande. Once they arrived in St. Louis,
they worked and lived with the Gutierrez brothers, according to the U.S.
attorney's office.

ST. CHARLES

Man remains hospitalized after Interstate 70 crash

A Maryland Heights man injured in a crash Thursday that killed his wife and
their 12-year-old daughter remained hospitalized Monday.

William M. O'Bannon was listed in fair condition at St. Joseph Health Center in
St. Charles. His wife, Lisa, was killed in the crash on Interstate 70 just east
of the Cave Springs Boulevard interchange, and their daughter Erin died later
from injuries suffered in the accident.

A man who police said caused an accident that led to the fatal crash was in the
St. Charles County Jail in lieu of $75,000 cash-only bail Monday. Joshua L.
Logsdon, 25, of St. Peters, has been charged with leaving the scene of an
accident, a felony.

MADISON COUNTY

Credit union robbery draws 12-year term

A Madison County man was sentenced Monday to 12 years in prison for his role in
the robbery of the Granite City Steel Federal Credit Union.

Clarence Thomas, 46, also received five years of supervised release and was
ordered to pay $26,802 restitution.

Thomas was one of four people indicted in federal court in East St. Louis for
the robbery of two credit unions that netted more than $63,000.

Thomas, along with Montez Lamar Fuller and Bonnie Louise Brown, robbed $27,651
from the Granite City Steel Federal Credit Union on June 5. Fuller, Brown and
Phillip Timothy Bailey robbed the Olin Community Credit Union in Alton of
$35,750 on June 16.

The three co-defendants pleaded guilty earlier and have been sentenced.

GODFREY

Three businesses damaged by fire

A fire damaged three businesses on Godfrey Road early Monday, but no one was
hurt.

Most of the damage was at Unique Boutique, where most of the jewelry, clothing,
holiday decorations and other items were destroyed.

Smoke also damaged a neighboring wireless communications store and a carpet
store, said interim Fire Chief Steven Kasten.

He said most of the damage was to goods inside the three stores as opposed to
structural damage.

Kasten said the fire was almost out by the time firefighters arrived.

"It was smoldering when we got there," he said.

JEFFERSON COUNTY

Fatal hunting accident under investigation

Jefferson County sheriff's office detectives are investigating a hunting
accident that left a 23-year-old dead.

A 49-year-old man shot and killed the other hunter Wednesday. Police said the
older hunter mistook the victim for a deer in a field past Primrose Street in
Fenton. Police said that the two were hunting together and that foul play has
been ruled out.

Officials have not identified either man.

Once the investigation is complete, the prosecuting attorney must decide whether
charges will be filed. Sheriff's detectives also are working with the Missouri
Department of Conservation to determine whether any hunting codes were violated.

CLINTON COUNTY, ILL.

Highland man killed in head-on crash

A man from Highland was killed early Saturday in a head-on crash on Illinois
Route 160 three miles north of Trenton.

Clinton County Deputy Coroner Phillip Moss said Marvin Chaffin, 49, the driver
of one of the vehicles, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Moss said Chaffin was northbound on Route 160 shortly after midnight when his
vehicle collided with a southbound vehicle that apparently had crossed the
center line.

Chaffin's wife and the woman who was driving the other vehicle were injured.
They were taken to area hospitals, then transferred to a St. Louis hospital,
Moss said.

Names of the injured were not available from Moss or the Clinton County
Sheriff's Department.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Smugglers force migrants to swim for it; dozens die

BYLINE: By Ahmed Al-Haj and Lee Keath THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 436 words


SAN'A, Yemen - Dozens of bodies washed ashore Friday in Yemen after smugglers
threw nearly 150 Somali migrants overboard in shark-infested waters, the latest
such disaster in one of the most lawless stretches of ocean in the world.

The Gulf of Aden between Yemen and the Horn of Africa already is notorious for
Somali piracy. The hijacking of a freighter carrying a cargo of heavy weapons
two weeks ago heightened concern over the chaos in a key shipping route - and
prompted NATO on Thursday to send warships to help U.S. Navy vessels already
patrolling the region.

The latest migrant deaths raised calls for those ships to also act against human
trafficking in the same waters off Somalia, a country where there is no
government control and armed groups are rampant.

"It's essentially the same problems that allow piracy and smuggling," said Roger
Middleton, an expert on East Africa at the Chatham House think tank in London.

Dire economic conditions and violence in Somalia drive the waves of migrants,
while the general lawlessness that gives pirates a free hand also opens the door
for smugglers.

"People are very desperate," Middleton said. He welcomed the NATO deployment of
ships against piracy, calling it "excellent news" that could also help in
stopping human trafficking.

About 32,000 migrants have made the hazardous sea journey to Yemen this year -
22,000 of them Somalis, according to figures from the Yemeni government and the
U.N. refugee agency.

Smugglers are known to cram dozens of men, women and children onto small boats
and often beat and abuse the migrants during the journey, which can take up to
three days. To avoid Yemeni patrols, the smugglers often dump their passengers
far from shore and force them to swim the rest of the way.

In the latest instance, about 150 migrants departed Somalia on Monday, and when
their vessel reached about three miles off Yemen's southern Shabwa coast, the
smugglers ordered everyone off, said Ron Redmond, a spokesman for the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees.

Twelve of the passengers were put on a smaller boat to take them ashore, while
the rest were forced to swim. Redmond said in Geneva that 47 people were
believed to have survived, but about 100 were missing and feared drowned.

As of Friday, 30 bodies have been found washed up on shore and were buried
immediately in keeping with Islamic customs of quick burial, a Yemeni security
official said. He estimated that up to 118 may have drowned. He spoke on
condition of anonymity.

The U.N. estimates at least 230 migrants have died this year and 365 remain
missing, including 100 from the latest incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Former Salvadoran officer is arrested in Los Angeles

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A former army officer from El Salvador who was convicted of taking part in the
1989 massacre of six Jesuit priests and two other people during that country's
civil war was arrested in the United States and faces deportation, authorities
said Wednesday.

Federal agents, acting on a tip, arrested Gonzalo Guevara Cerritos, 43, on Oct.
18 at a motel near the University of California at Los Angeles. He illegally
entered the country in January 2005, according to a statement from the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

He was being held at a detention facility pending a deportation hearing next
month, said Lori Haley, a spokeswoman for the agency. She did not know where
Guevara Cerritos had been or what he was doing in the United States.

Hector Hugo Herrera, El Salvador's consul general in Los Angeles, said the
deportation wouldn't mean much to Salvadorans because Cerritos had served his
prison sentence and had been given amnesty in 1993.

Guevara Cerritos was a sub-lieutenant with the Salvadoran army's
counterinsurgency Atlacatl Battalion, which fought the leftist group FMLN during
that country's bloody civil war, which ended in 1992.

He and eight other officers and soldiers were convicted of involvement in the
1989 killing of six priests, their cook and her teenage daughter at a university
in the capital city of El Salvador.

Guevara Cerritos was convicted in El Salvador in 1991 of instigation and
conspiracy to commit acts of terrorism. He was sentenced to three years in
prison.

He spent nearly two years under house arrest before he was pardoned by the
government under a 1993 general amnesty, ICE said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  World

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 154

LENGTH: 177 words


Glass factory: The town began to boom in the early 1900s with the opening of the
St. Louis Plate Glass Factory. In 1915, a flood severely damaged the factory,
and it never reopened.

Holding back water: For years, Valley Park's lower end has been prone to
flooding from the Meramec River. In summer 2005, the city celebrated the
completion of a new $49 million levee. The city hopes the massive mound of earth
will lure developers.

Immigration debate: In July 2006, the city passed an ordinance targeting illegal
immigrants, putting itself at the center of a nationwide debate over immigration
reform. The ordinance penalizes businesses and landlords who hire and rent to
illegal immigrants, touching off a legal battle with opponents.

Did you know?

For families in the city of St. Louis around the turn of the century, Valley
Park was considered a vacation destination. Many would board the trains for
summer vacations and head to Valley Park to stay along the Meramec River.

County: St. Louis

Population: 6,518

Median household Income: $43,548

Median home value: $128,200

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR TOWN

GRAPHIC: MAP
MAP showing location of Valley Park

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Amish couple sue over photo rule Pictures required for immigration violate their
beliefs, they say.

BYLINE: By Joe Mandak The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


An Amish couple filed a lawsuit -- something that runs counter to their
principles of nonresistance -- to safeguard another cherished belief, that
having their photo taken is against the Bible.

The couple are suing the federal government because immigration officials
require photos. In the case of the Amish couple, the photos are required so the
husband, a Canadian citizen, can become a permanent resident and eventually
apply for U.S. citizenship.

The Old Order Amish shun modern conveniences such as automobiles and electricity
and believe that having one's picture taken violates the biblical injunction
against making "graven images."

The couple's attorney, Michael Sampson, who is taking the case without charge,
said they could be excommunicated if the Amish community learned of the lawsuit,
so he asked a federal judge to let them proceed anonymously. The judge has not
ruled on the request.

The U.S. government sometimes allowed immigrants to waive the photo requirements
for religious reasons. Because of more recent anti-terrorism efforts, there are
no longer any exceptions based on religion.

But Sampson said immigration authorities still allowed some elderly or infirm
people to avoid being photographed, and thinks an exemption should be made in
this case, too.

The husband, 31, and wife, 24, were married in June 2001 in Pennsylvania while
the man was in the country as a visitor. They have since had two children.

They have provided fingerprints, birth certificates and other documents needed
for immigration, but they still must submit two photographs.

For now, the husband is entitled to stay here while the government attempts to
resolve the matter, Sampson said. But they live in fear of a deportation order.

"The reality is, we've exhausted every possible step we can take to protect
them," Sampson said. "If my clients don't file this lawsuit, they're at risk of
having this young family torn apart, separated by the Canadian-U.S. border."

U.S. Attorney Mary Beth Buchanan, who will represent the government, declined to
comment on the case Friday.

In another case filed two years ago, Buchanan defended the photo requirement by
saying that Homeland Security officials could not do a thorough background check
on an immigrant without a photo.

"They can't go out and show people a fingerprint and say, 'Do you recognize this
fingerprint? What can you tell me about this person?'" Buchanan said.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Religious group wants law on immigrants' side

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


A group of religious leaders is urging the city to enact a law making the
municipality more friendly to immigrants - legal or illegal.

The ordinance would prohibit city agencies from investigating immigrants'
citizenship or residency when they seek city services, unless the city is
required to by federal or state law. The city of Chicago enacted such an
ordinance this year.

The measure would allow immigrants to obtain business or marriage licenses with
identification from their home country or local consulate.

Group members say they want to counteract what Valley Park did this summer when
that city enacted a law prohibiting landlords and businesses from renting to or
hiring illegal immigrants.

"We believe that this whole thing involves human rights," said Edgar Ramirez,
pastoral associate at St. Cecilia Catholic Church in south St. Louis.
"Immigrants, like all other people, possess human dignity that should be
protected. We believe that from the Christian perspective that strangers should
be welcome."

Ramirez, chairman of the Metropolitan Congregations United immigration task
force, emphasized that the initiative is still in its early stages and that no
one has agreed to sponsor it.

He said couples in his congregation who have been in the U.S. for years would
like to get married, but are afraid to try. Some city employees require state or
federal identification before issuing marriage licenses, he said, while others
do not.

Ramirez and other members from the Congregations United, a coalition of more
than 60 churches, have met with a few aldermen over the past three weeks.

Aldermen say they need to study the issue before lending their support.

"I totally disagree with what Valley Park has enacted," said Alderman Matt
Villa, D-11th Ward.

But he isn't sure whether he favors a law prohibiting city employees from asking
if a person is here legally.

"I don't know," he said. "I have to learn a whole lot more before I can make a
well-informed decision."

Alderman Jennifer Florida, D-15th Ward, said that immigration has been an
important part of St. Louis history but that she, too, needed more time before
deciding.

"I am certainly interested in exploring this legislation and what it could do,
but this is not something that could be ramrodded through the board," she said.

Both Ramirez and the Rev. Jack Schuler, of Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church
in Ferguson, said Valley Park's ordinance has caused a lot of fear in the
Hispanic community. More than 20 families fled from Valley Park after the law
was enacted in July, they noted.

"Valley Park didn't solve anything - it just moved people to the next
community," he said.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union and attorneys from several other
organizations sued Valley Park, calling the ordinance unconstitutional. A
circuit court judge barred the city from enforcing it until a trial can be held.

Schuler said many Hispanics in St. Louis County are worried about their own
cities enacting a similar law.

"They wonder who's next," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Digest

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 266 words


WASHINGTON

Fewer arrests made by U.S. Border Patrol

U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents made fewer arrests of illegal immigrants
trying to enter the country last year, the government said Monday.

Arrests fell 8.3 percent from 1.2 million in fiscal year 2005 to 1.1 million
last year, the Homeland Security Department said.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said that the department added more
than 1,900 Border Patrol agents in the past year and installed fencing and other
security measures.

CABAZON, Calif.

2 men are questioned in wildfire that killed 4

Authorities investigating a wildfire that killed four firefighters questioned
two people Monday.

Deputy sheriffs took two men and three bags of material from a house in Cabazon,
said neighbor Robert Dunham, 70. He lives three doors down from the residence a
quarter-mile from where the fire started.

No arrests had been made.

Authorities said the fire was deliberately set in Cabazon, west of Palm Springs.

SANTA ANA, Calif.

12 workers are accused of tricking voters

Twelve people have been charged with tricking voters in Orange County into
registering as Republicans, prosecutors said Monday.

The defendants, ranging in age from 19 to 52, were accused of fraudulently
registering 37 voters as Republicans between August 2005 and February 2006.
Democrats, Green Party members and a noncitizen were registered as Republicans,
prosecutors said.

The suspects were hired to register new Republicans by private firms paid by the
Orange County Republican Party, prosecutors said.

No charges were filed against the companies or the Republican Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - South for the winter - Whooping cranes follow an ultralight plane over
a silo in western Winnebago County, Ill., on Sunday. The trip, led by the plane,
is meant to instill a migration pattern. The whooping crane is an endangered
species.  Rockford Register Star / The Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Ethiopian immigrant gets 10-year sentence for mutilating daughter's genitals
Father denied practicing female circumcision, but the girl, now 7, testified on
videotape.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: LAWRENCEVILLE, GA.


An Ethiopian immigrant was convicted Wednesday of the genital mutilation of his
2-year-old daughter and was sentenced to 10 years in prison in what was believed
to be the first such criminal case in the United States.

Khalid Adem, 30, was found guilty of aggravated battery and cruelty to children.
Prosecutors said he used scissors to remove his daughter's clitoris in his
family's Atlanta-area apartment in 2001. The child's mother, Fortunate Adem,
said she did not discover it until more than a year later.

Adem, who had no criminal record, could have been sentenced to up to 40 years in
prison. He held his face in his hands and wept loudly after the jury's verdict
was read.

During her father's trial, the girl, now 7, testified on videotape that her
father "cut me on my private part."

"This child has suffered, will suffer, the rest of her life," Judge Richard
Winegarden told Adem during sentencing.

Federal law specifically bans the practice of genital mutilation.

Adem testified that he never circumcised his daughter or asked anyone else to do
so. He said he grew up in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, and considers
the practice more prevalent in rural areas.

Adem's attorney acknowledged that the girl had been cut but implied that the
family of the girl's mother, who emigrated from South Africa, may have been
responsible. The Adems divorced three years ago, and attorney Mark Hill
suggested that the couple's daughter was coached to testify against her father
by her mother, who has full custody of the child.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Khalid Adem held his face in his hands and wept loudly after the jury's
verdict was read.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

STATE SENATOR 22ND DISTRICT

SECTION: VOTERS GUIDE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 713 words


Bill Alter

Party: Republican

Incumbent: Yes

Age: 62

Home: High Ridge

Occupation: sales management, self-employed

Political experience: State representative, 90th District, 1989-1991 and
1993-2001; state senator, 2005-present

Web site: None

PRIORITIES:

I will again lead the fight to stop illegal immigration to Missouri. The cost to
Missourians in the area of providing an education and health care to people
illegally in our state must be stopped. Illegals take construction jobs that
should go to Missouri citizens. My legislation, which passed the Senate last
session, will train Highway Patrol troopers in immigration law and give them
full investigative and arrest powers in these matters the same as federal
immigration agents have.

I will continue the fight for affordable health care and the overhaul of the
state's Medicaid system making it more cost effective and improving coverage.
Keeping taxes low and providing a good climate for business to flourish is an
essential.

I will continue to explore additional means for fighting the methamphetamine
problem in Missouri. I will continue to protect property rights and strictly
limit the use of eminent domain.

QUALIFICATIONS:

I am very well-qualified, with twelve years of service as both a state
representative and a state senator. I am an active duty police officer with
twenty-four years of service, I served in the U.S. Navy, was an IBM Field
Engineer, and I'm a self-employed business owner. I understand the sacrifices
people make stepping out on their own and taking risks, to become self-reliant
and independent.

I serve on the Senate committee for Aging, Families, Mental and Public Health
and have gained an understanding of the needs of citizens needing these
services. My law enforcement background uniquely qualifies me to serve on the
Joint committee on Terrorism, Bioterrorism & Homeland Security and the Senate
Judiciary & Civil and Criminal Jurisprudence Committee.

As a father and grandfather, I take the responsibility of protecting our
families and homes very seriously, and would continue with diligence to fight
illegal immigration and eminent domain abuse.

Ryan McKenna

Party: Democrat

Incumbent: No

Age: 33

Home: Crystal City

Occupation: Construction marketing representative, Laborers and Employers
Cooperation and Education Trust

Political experience: Member, Glaize Creek Sewer Board, 1997-2005; state
representative, 102nd District, 1999-2005

Web site: www.mckenna2006.com

PRIORITIES:

My first priority would be to restore the Medicaid cuts from the past two years.
Education, particularly in fast growing Jefferson County, needs to be funded and
helped with the growing needs and importance of technology. Community Colleges
are the most efficient way to begin a career and they should be funded at least
to the levels of 2002.

Our roads and bridges are starting to make a resurgence but there is much to be
done - especially in the area of worker safety. We need more veteran facilities
and cemeteries. We need to live up to our promises to those in our foster care
programs. And finally, our developmentally disabled population are an asset to
our state and we need to help them be independent and restore MAWD funding.

Jefferson City has become divisive. I would like to reach middle ground on
issues because good laws are the result of debate, discourse and compromise.

QUALIFICATIONS:

I served six years in the House that were productive ones for Jefferson County.
I sponsored and passed the Child Advocacy Center in Jefferson County for
physically-sexually abused children. I authored the bill that gave our county
commission the ability to pass ordinances dealing with trash and nuisances. I
sponsored and passed our county municipal court bill. I have been recognized by
the St. Louis business community for efforts on behalf of our entire region. I
am known for being open-minded and independent. I have a Bachelor's degree from
Missouri State University in education. I served for eight years on a locally
elected sewer board. I have been recognized by the Jefferson County Disability
community.

I am a third generation public servant who believes in giving back more to my
community that I get. To me, government is there to help our most vulnerable
citizens - children, elderly and developmentally disabled.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  VOTERS GUIDE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 Photo - Bill Alter Photo - Ryan McKenna

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 467 words


BOSTON

Bosnian gets 5 years in 1995 massacre

A Bosnian immigrant was sentenced to more than five years in prison Monday for
concealing his role in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre so that he could get into
the United States. Prosecutors believe he may have been killed 100 people.

Marko Boskic, 41, was sentenced to five years and three months. He was convicted
over the summer of hiding his military service on his immigration applications.

Authorities say he will probably face deportation to Bosnia after he serves his
sentence.

Boskic says he was threatened with death unless he took part in the killings.

CALIENTE, Nev.

Polygamist sect leader is due in court today

Warren Jeffs, charged with rape as an accomplice for his alleged role in
arranging the marriage of a 14-year-old girl, will be in a Utah court today for
a hearing on whether prosecutors have enough evidence to try him.

Jeffs is the leader of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day
Saints, which promotes polygamy. If he is tried and convicted, the man some
10,000 followers revere as a prophet could spend the rest of his life in prison.

Jeffs was captured in a traffic stop outside Las Vegas in August; he had been
sought for two years.

The wedding took place at a motel in Caliente, Nev. The sect is based in
Hildale, Utah.

The Mormons disavow any connection with his church and renounced polygamy more
than a century ago.

NEWARK, N.J.

Stolen de Goya painting is recovered by FBI

The FBI said Monday that it has recovered a 1778 painting by the Spanish artist
Francisco de Goya that was stolen as it was being taken to an exhibition earlier
this month. The painting appeared to be unharmed.

"Children with a Cart" disappeared en route from the Toledo Museum of Art in
Ohio to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City. The painting was
valued at about $1.1 million.

The FBI said extensive news coverage of the theft led to tips and the painting's
recovery.

The painting was taken from an art transporter's truck in Stroudsburg, Pa., on
Nov. 8.

TALLAHASSEE, Fla.

Republican is declared winner of Harris seat

State officials Monday certified Republican Vern Buchanan as the winner of the
House seat being vacated by Republican Rep. Katherine Harris. The loser
immediately sued for a new election, saying that touch screen voting machines
had malfunctioned.

Democrat Christine Jennings contested her 369-vote loss in the 13th District,
asking a judge to order a new election because of problems in Sarasota County,
where more than 17,000 voters who cast ballots in other races Nov. 7 failed to
vote in the congressional contest.

That rate is nearly six times higher than in the other counties in the
congressional district or on Sarasota's paper absentee ballots, Jennings says.

Buchanan said there was no evidence of machine malfunctions.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

An iconic American holiday From the first Thanksgiving to fresh immigrants, the
day holds promise.

BYLINE: By Tim Townsend ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1004 words


It was a month ago when Karla Pereyra traveled from Mexico to the United States.
She is 21 years old and has, as she puts it, "a long life ahead" of her.

"It was really hard for me to leave my family and friends for come here, but
something that makes me strong is when I close my eyes and visualize my future
and I see that all that depends on me," wrote Pereyra in an essay for a class at
the International Institute St. Louis.

It was nearly four centuries ago, in 1621, William Bradford, only 31 and the
newly elected governor of the Plymouth Colony, ordered his men to go "fowling"
for ducks and geese around Plymouth Harbor, according to Nathaniel Philbrick's
"Mayflower." Bradford had in mind a harvest feast that would one day rank just
behind the Last Supper as the most iconic meal ever eaten.

Half of the 102 Pilgrims who had survived the voyage died of disease and
starvation during the first 11 months in the new wilderness. But by late
September of 1621, life was improving, and Bradford declared it time to "rejoice
together ... after a more special manner."

In "Of Plymouth Plantation," Bradford described the gratitude the Pilgrims felt
toward God for delivering them from the "vast and furious ocean," but he also
wrote about the sorrow they felt when they left friends and family behind in
Europe and arrived on unwelcoming American shores.

"The whole country, full of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage
hew," he wrote. "If they looked behind them, there was the mighty ocean which
they had passed, and was now as a main bar and gulf to separate them from all
the civil parts of the world."

That gulf between their native lands and the U.S. can feel as real to the newest
American immigrants as it did to the men and women who stepped off the Mayflower
centuries ago. Yet despite profound emotional strain, many of St. Louis' newest
immigrants - just like the original Pilgrims - look beyond their confusion,
loneliness, homesickness and desperation to find hope in their new land and
gratitude for it.

At a Thanksgiving dinner at the International Institute earlier this week,
immigrants from across the world's oceans gathered at nine long tables to eat
turkey, stuffing, mashed potatoes and cranberry sauce.

Mukhtar Haji, a 30-year-old from Somalia who was celebrating his third
Thanksgiving in the U.S., latched on to the hunger element of the original
Thanksgiving story.

"In the colonial time, they were feeling too much hungry," he said. "And then a
man came with a turkey to help them survive the famine. This is a memorial of
the day that man came."

Though he might not have known the particulars - that the Pilgrims would not
have lasted a year in their new environment without the Pokanoket and their
leader, Massasoit, who saved the Englishmen from starvation - the story was not
lost on Haji.

Muhammad Alikhan, 46, from Afghanistan, was experiencing his first Thanksgiving.
"It's very important that it was immigrant people who came here," he said. His
favorite part of Thanksgiving so far was the music, especially Woody Guthrie's
"This Land Is Your Land." "This song means a lot to the immigrants who come," he
said.

Alikhan's friend Sherzamin Irgash, 46 and also from Afghanistan, said he moved
to St. Louis from Moscow two years ago. This would be his second Thanksgiving.
Irgash said he felt more comfortable in the U.S. than in Russia.

"In Moscow, I felt like I was from another country," he said. "In the United
States, I feel like everybody is my brother and sister. I feel like it is my own
land."

Gladys Garilus, 29, from Haiti, said she, too, felt comfortable in the U.S.
because of its diversity. "We can come here and meet people from everywhere,"
she said. "From Vietnam, from China, from Russia. So many languages in one
place."

Fiokou Komivi, 30, from Togo in western Africa, said that while he was happy to
celebrate Thanksgiving, "every glad moment has a sad moment from the past." He
said people should remember those who have struggled and even died to ensure our
happiness today. "We have to remember what happened in their moment," he said.

Others, like Pereyra, wrote their reflections on what Thanksgiving means to
them. She put it this way: "The life here is very different and sometimes hard,
but I know that every day is a new opportunity for be more close to my Purpose.
I want to give thanks to GOD for his love. ..."

Roba Zenashi has been in the U.S. since July, when she left her family in
Morocco. "It seemed to be a very crazy idea to come alone to a strange country,
but without a doubt it was really a very exciting adventure in my life," she
wrote.

Zenashi came to the U.S. because she wanted "to realize my dreams and especially
to be independent and to rely on myself ... so thanks to America who accepted me
as a guest in its earth ... and thanks to God who's helping me in my
loneliness."

Seven generations after that first Thanksgiving, President George Washington
recognized the importance of Bradford's decision to "rejoice together." This
time, Americans would thank God as a nation.

In 1789, just months after the government began operating under the authority of
the U.S. Constitution, Washington proclaimed that a thanksgiving day be "devoted
by the people of these states to the service of that great and glorious being.
... That we may then all unite in rendering unto him our sincere and humble
thanks for his kind care and protection of the people of this country previous
to their becoming a nation. ..."

Washington knew the power of beginnings, and the story of the first
Thanksgiving, as told and retold to generations of schoolchildren, holds the
power of myth. The story's significance comes from that promise of an American
genesis: This was how it all began.

In the words of a brand-new pilgrim, Karla Pereyra, recently of Mexico,
currently of the United States of America, "The beginning is never easy, but it
is very important."

---

STLtoday.com/current What are you thankful for at this holiday season? Talk
about it in our Current Affairs forum

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Sherzamin Irgash (left) is thankful that his Afghan family is safe and
happy in St. Louis. Irgash lifts his youngest child, Lema, 2, as son Ajmal, 16,
and daughter Njma, 10, work on their homework. F. Brian Ferguson | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

With law, southern Nevada town sends message to immigrants

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: PAHRUMP, NEV.


Retiree Sam Jones wakes up each day and puts his graying hair in a ponytail, a
.45-caliber automatic on his right hip and a copy of the U.S. Constitution in
his back pocket.

He is a man who knows how to make a statement.

So Jones, and others like him in this desert outpost, were all in favor when
town leaders decided to send a message to Pahrump's growing immigrant community.

"This is America, and in America, we speak English," Jones, 55, said in offering
his interpretation of Pahrump's new English Language and Patriot Reaffirmation
ordinance.

In approving the ordinance this month, a town best known for its proximity to
legal brothels thrust itself into the nation's immigration debate.

The fast-growing community 60 miles down a two-lane road from Las Vegas made
English its official language and barred residents from flying a foreign flag by
itself.

The new ordinance does little, if anything, to change business in Pahrump. But
it has done much to reveal simmering frustrations in this town in transition.

"What bothers me is that people who don't speak the language, they feel
threatened and afraid," said Carmen Ruiz, a Hispanic real estate agent in town.

Since the debate over immigration heated up last spring, several local
governments have taken their own steps. English is now the official language of
Taneytown, a Maryland town of 5,000, and Farmer Branch, a Dallas suburb. Earlier
this month, voters approved a measure making English the official language of
Arizona.

Supporters of Pahrump's new law say its intent is to encourage assimilation,
though they acknowledge it is mostly symbolic. The ordinance provides exceptions
for any official communication that the federal government requires to be
translated, meaning few, if any, changes.

As for the flag rules, "You've heard of a paper tiger? This is a paper kitten.
You can't enforce it," said Sheriff Tony DeMeo.

The ordinance was approved by the town board 3-2 at a Nov. 14 meeting attended
by only a few Hispanics.

About 11 percent of Pahrump's 33,000 residents are Hispanic.

Board member Michael Miraglia, 67, a retired Illinois state employee and the
ordinance's chief backer, said TV images of Hispanic protesters carrying Mexican
flags at May Day rallies made his blood boil.

Miraglia originally proposed to bar businesses from offering housing or lending
money to illegal immigrants. But the measure was watered down after businesses
objected.

The American Civil Liberties Union has called the section dealing with the flag
a violation of the First Amendment and said it may sue.

Meanwhile, Ruiz is planning community meetings and encouraging people to report
cases of discrimination or harassment.

"I'm not leaving, so I've got to do something about it," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Valley Park law worries ethnic council Attitudes toward immigrants are a concern

BYLINE: By Clay Barbour ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: DES PERES


The recent Valley Park immigration controversy was the topic of discussion when
members of the Ethnic Heritage Council met Sunday for the first time in more
than a year.

About 20 members of the council, representing nationalities from around the
world, convened at the Lodge at Des Peres to discuss several issues concerning
the St. Louis region's immigrant community.

One of the most important topics was a Valley Park law, passed this year,
prohibiting landlords and businesses from renting to or hiring illegal
immigrants.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union and attorneys from several other
organizations sued the city, leading a circuit court judge to bar the city from
enforcing the law until a trial can be held.

Some area immigrants say such laws take aim at their community and harbor
anti-immigrant sentiments.

"If you think about it, the next level to this type of law is to go after anyone
who has a different name, or looks different," said Ann Rynearson, the
International Institute's senior vice president of culture and community.

Since 1919, the institute has helped St. Louis-area immigrants find their place
in their adopted home. The immigrant population has nearly doubled in the past
five years, from about 60,000 to about 110,000.

At its meeting Sunday, the council decided to set up an e-mail alert to keep
members informed of such laws.

"We have to pay attention to this," said Guillermo Rodriguez. "We can't afford
not to."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
PHOTO - Martha Stegmaier (left) talks with Fan Chen at the Ethnic Heritage
Council meeting Sunday. The council, sponsored by the International Institute of
St. Louis, decided to set up an e-mail alert to inform members of laws targeting
illegal immigrants. Sam Leone | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Arizona tops Nevada as state that's growing the fastest

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher THE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 271 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Arizona has ended Nevada's 19-year reign as the nation's fastest-growing state,
fueled by immigrants and Americans moving from other states.

At the other end of the scale, Louisiana lost nearly 220,000 people - more than
any other state - in the year after Hurricane Katrina, according to population
estimates released today by the Census Bureau.

Missouri and Illinois, like most Midwestern states, grew a little more slowly
than the national average from August 2005 to July this year, the bureau said.
Missouri gained 0.8 percent, while Illinois increased 0.5 percent. The national
average was 1.0 percent.

As of July, the nation's population stood at 299,398,484, the bureau estimated.

Arizona led the nation with a population growth rate of 3.6 percent in that
period, followed by Nevada, Idaho, Georgia and Texas.

Arizona added about 32,000 immigrants in the past year. It added four times that
many people who were relocating from other states. The biggest donor state:
California.

Among the findings for this year:

- Texas gained the most people, about 580,000, followed by Florida, California,
Georgia and Arizona.

- North Carolina broke into the top 10 in total population, nudging New Jersey
to 11th.

- Four states and the District of Columbia lost population: Louisiana, New York,
Rhode Island and Michigan.

Louisiana had been losing people to other states for years before Hurricane
Katrina hit, though the storm worsened the problem, said Elliott Stonecipher, a
veteran Louisiana demographer and pollster. Last year's loss amounted to nearly
5 percent of the state's people.

---

STLtoday.com/links Get complete census data online

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - Arizona posts a 3.6 percent growth rate AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             January 5, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bosnian immigrant is mentor to others

BYLINE: By Michelle B. Mueller SPECIAL TO THE POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 319 words


Ajla Alunovic, a senior at Mehlville High School, is committed to helping
younger peers with their academics.

Ajla maintains a 3.4 grade-point average with a schedule that includes two
advanced courses, Spanish IV and contemporary issues, plus cadet teaching. As a
cadet teacher, she shadows a world history teacher, preparing lessons and doing
extra activities with students who need reinforcement with different concepts.

Through the Panther Kickoff program, Ajla mentors five freshmen throughout the
year with their studies as well as with social issues. Ajla also helps tutor
other freshmen in social studies, pre-algebra and algebra. She believes helping
freshmen adjust to high school is important.

"I want to help make it easier for them and be able to talk to them about
things, not just about their schoolwork," she said.

Ajla knows what it's like being a new student. A native of Bosnia, she
immigrated to Germany and lived there for six years before coming to the United
States. She has lived in the St. Louis area since 1998. Although she is still
fluent in Bosnian, she admits she sometimes forgets Bosnian words when she is
forced to use her native language during summer vacations visiting family in
Bosnia.

Outside of school, Ajla works about 25 hours a week at American Eagle and
Hollister stores at the South County Center shopping mall.

Ajla will turn 18 on Saturday and hopes to take her naturalization exam soon.
She will begin a pre-law program at St. Louis University next fall.

Ajla lives in Mehlville with her parents, Edin and Sebira Alunovic.

More about Ajla:

I'm most proud of: "My grades, because I work really hard."

The most important lesson I've learned in high school is: "Learn who your
friends are early on."

The best book I ever read was: "A Child Called It" by Dave Pelzer.

If I could spend an hour with anyone in the world, I would choose: "One of the
early presidents like George Washington."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Spotlight on education   Mehlville High School SOUTH ST. LOUIS COUNTY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Ajla

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Agency struggles to survive

BYLINE: By Roberto J. Manzano ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 905 words


SHORT OF FUNDS: It may be forced to close by the end of the month.

RICH PAST: Group was born in 1983 to help Ethiopian immigrants.

---

Somalia native Sadiyo Maalim struggled to fill out an application for a job
cleaning office buildings.

In the U.S. for six months, she didn't understand the meaning of a ZIP code.

The south St. Louis resident found help navigating the customs of her new
country in a modest two-story building behind a church on Arsenal Street.

There, caseworkers with the African Mutual Assistance Association of Missouri
helped the 20-year-old and others like her: immigrants and refugees settling
into new surroundings.

"I always get help from these people," said Maalim, who on a recent Thursday was
riding with caseworker Mukthar Haji to Allied College in Maryland Heights, where
Maalim hoped to learn more about the school's pharmacy technician program.

In the St. Louis area, there are nearly 6,400 African refugees and immigrants,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey. For more
than two decades, the African Mutual Assistance Association of Missouri has
offered them a one-stop station of services.

Now that tradition is in jeopardy. Because of federal funding cuts and AMAAM's
failure to receive grants to make up for lost government funding, the nonprofit
group is fighting for its survival. Unless it can raise at least $75,000 to pay
its rent, staff salaries and other expenses through the end of the year, it will
possibly close by the end of the month.

The agency annually receives $150,000 in state-administered federal funds and
other grants, but Gedlu Metaferia, the group's founder and executive director,
learned in September that AMAAM would lose about $93,000 in federal funds. The
group is now operating off of $50,000 in grants.

According to Anna Crosslin, CEO and president of the International Institute,
which provides social services for new Americans, AMAAM's precarious situation
is not unique. Mutual assistance associations that have long relied mainly on
the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement for funding have been hard hit
because of cuts.

Metaferia, 56, said: "Our work is vital because we're involved in mediation,
education about civic participation, what voting means. We come as an extended
family offering complimentary services. We play a great role in absorption and
integration.''

Although AMAAM has a cloudy future, it has a rich past. Established in 1983 to
help Ethiopian arrivals, the group expanded to help immigrants from all of
Africa. Staff members are fluent in several languages, including Amharic,
Arabic, Somali, Swahili and Tigrinya.

South St. Louis resident Zahra Aden, 42, who recently got help filling out an
online application for unemployment benefits, is one of the estimated 15,000
African refugees and immigrants Metaferia says his group has assisted. Clients
from throughout the region are a diverse group that includes college students in
Edwardsville, Collinsville and Fairview Heights and a recent immigrant now
living in Florissant. The services are free, and Metaferia said the group has
handled translation requests from Atlanta and Washington.

"I felt very sorry. This is an immigrant historical institution, a welcoming
institution established by immigrants who gave back," Metaferia said. "Why
should it collapse?"

Metaferia, an Ethiopian native who came to St. Louis in 1981, considered laying
off case workers, the association's backbone that provides clients help with
everything from interpreting to referrals for low income housing.

He also considered eliminating staff health benefits or placing all staff,
including himself, on part-time salaries. The group employs five people,
including Metaferia, whose annual salary is $36,000.

Metaferia recently appealed directly to friends of AMAAM for funds. Since
September, the group has raised $16,000 from philanthropic groups, businesses
and individuals, he said.

"I had to let go of my pride and my embarrassment and ask for money," Metaferia
said.

Crosslin believes the community will rally to help AMAAM survive and even grow.

"They're one of the safety nets out there for people," Crosslin said. "They keep
an element of humanity in the resettlement of these families. They can help
people who are long-timers and can't access new-timer services."

Because of the time limits on services, such as job placement, the institute
can't always help immigrants who have lived in St. Louis for years but still
need help adjusting, Crosslin said.

That includes Somalia native Aden, who has been in the St. Louis area for seven
years and recently was laid off from her assembly-line job. She turned to AMAAM
in November for help in her quest for low-income housing and new employment.

Despite financial uncertainties, Metaferia said AMAAM will press on.

"I don't think our friends will abandon us."

---

Where the Africans here came from

The 2005 American Community Survey by the U.S. Census Bureau shows that there
are an estimated 6,390 African natives, from various regions, living in the St.
Louis area, including the Metro East and Jefferson County.

Africa ................................. 6,390 Western Africa
............................ 2,491 Eastern Africa
..............................1,941 Northern Africa ..........................
1,329 Southern Africa .............................329 Not classi. ed
................................ 300

Source: Steve Bolhafner, News Research

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRANT AID GROUP IN TROUBLE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Case worker Mukthar Haji drives client Sadiyo Maalim, a Somali native,
to an interview at Allied College in Maryland Heights, where Maalim was
considering entering pharmacy technology school. Haji, also from Somalia, serves
about 150 families working for the African Mutual Assistance Association of
Missouri.  Robert Cohen | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 289 words


WASHINGTON

Government adjusts immigration policy

The federal government is shifting policy to allow foreigners who have aided
armed groups not considered terrorists to seek asylum or resettle in the United
States.

Hundreds of foreigners already in the country - including some who have been
held for months or years in detention - claim to have been forced to help
violent groups. Many are fleeing violence from the groups they were forced to
assist.

Tens of thousands of others, living abroad in refugee camps and elsewhere, also
would be affected by the plan to ease restrictions set after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.

GULFPORT, Miss.

Katrina victims win damages from insurer

A jury awarded $2.5 million in punitive damages against State Farm Fire and
Casualty Co. for a Mississippi couple who were denied their Hurricane Katrina
claim.

State Farm, based in Bloomington, Ill., said it probably would appeal.

U.S. District Judge L.T. Senter Jr. ruled Thursday morning that State Farm is
liable for $223,292 in damage caused by Hurricane Katrina to the home of Norman
and Genevieve Broussard. Senter left the punitive damages to the jury.

The Broussards sued State Farm for refusing to pay for any damage to their home,
which Katrina reduced to a slab. State Farm blamed all the damage on Katrina's
storm surge, for which it said their policy did not cover.

INDIANAPOLIS

Four shot at factory; co-worker is arrested

A man shot and wounded four co-workers Thursday at a factory that employs
disabled people, telling police he did it "over respect," authorities said.
Police did not elaborate.

Jason Burnam, 24, was arrested inside the company cafeteria.

Two men and two women were taken to hospitals, police said. They were expected
to survive.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

'We accept pesos' sparks outrage A firestorm of hatred is directed at a pizza
chain after it posts signs welcoming the Mexican currency.

BYLINE: By Jeff Carlton THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


A pizza chain has been hit with death threats and hate mail after offering to
accept Mexican pesos, becoming another flashpoint in the nation's debate over
immigrants.

"This is the United States of America, not the United States of Mexico," one
e-mail read. "Quit catering to the damn illegal Mexicans," demanded another.

Dallas-based Pizza Patron said it was not trying to inject itself into a larger
political debate about illegal immigration when it posted signs this week saying
"Aceptamos pesos" - or "We accept pesos" - at its 59 stores across Texas,
Colorado, Arizona, Nevada and California.

Pizza Patron spokesman Andy Gamm said the company was just trying to sell more
pizza to its customers, 60 percent of whom are Hispanic.

Wal-Mart, H-E-B supermarkets and other American businesses in towns along the
Mexican border accept pesos. And some businesses in New York and Minnesota
communities along the northern border accept Canadian dollars.

The difference with the pizza company is that many of its restaurants are far
from the border, in places such as Dallas, more than 400 miles away, and Denver,
more than 700 miles.

"If people would understand that the majority of our customers are Hispanic,
then it might make more sense for a company to sell pizza for pesos," Gamm said.

The company said it has received hundreds of e-mails, some supportive, most
critical.

While praising the pesos plan as an innovative way to appeal to Hispanics, a
partner in the nation's largest Hispanic public relations firm said a backlash
was inevitable.

"Right now there's a lot of anti-immigrant rhetoric going around that could make
them a lightning rod," said Patricia Perez, a partner at Valencia, Perez &
Echeveste in Los Angeles.

Pizza Patron's restaurants are in mostly Hispanic neighborhoods, and each
manager must be bilingual and live nearby, said Pizza Patron founder Antonio
Swad, who is part-Italian, part-Lebanese.

The take-home menus are in both English and Spanish, and the dishes include the
La Mexicana pizza, with spicy chorizo sausage; La Barbacoa pizza, topped with
spicy pulled pork; and chicken wings flavored with lime, peppers and garlic con
queso.

The promotion will run through the end of February and then be re-evaluated,
Swad said.

At a Pizza Patron in Dallas, Veronica Verges bought a pizza Wednesday for her
son Nathan's fourth birthday. She paid with pesos her father brought home two
weeks ago after a trip to see family in Mexico.

She said she is an occasional Pizza Patron customer, but came that day because
she could pay with pesos. Her father wasn't going to use them because he had no
plans to go back to Mexico anytime soon.

"I would mostly think a restaurant would do this in a border town," she said.
"But it got me over here."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. plans for Cuban exodus if Castro dies Keeping many at Guantanamo Bay Naval
Base, which holds terror suspects, would pose challenges.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba


If Cubans flee in droves when Fidel Castro dies, those intercepted at sea
probably will wind up at this base where nearly 400 men captured in the war on
terror are held, causing "an incredible challenge" for U.S. forces, the base
commander said.

Military officials say they have begun planning for a possible mass exodus,
scouting potential sites to hold detainees in tents while keeping them far from
the prisoners suspected of links to al-Qaida or the Taliban.

Most of the current prisoners, captured after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, have been held at the U.S. base in southeastern Cuba without charges
since 2002.

A sudden surge of immigrants would return Guantanamo to an earlier role. More
than 40,000 Haitians and Cubans were held here in the 1990s when political and
economic turmoil in their countries prompted a mass movement toward U.S. shores.

"We continue to plan for the possibility of that happening again," Navy Capt.
Mark Leary, the commanding officer of the base, said in an interview Wednesday.

But it would be much more difficult next time. In the 1990s, Guantanamo Bay,
which covers 45 square miles of land and water, was a sleepy Navy outpost with
plenty of open space. Now, the land where most of the immigrants were held is
occupied by Camp Delta - a prison complex behind tall fences and coils of razor
wire.

The United States would have to increase troop levels to provide additional
security and bring in more food and other supplies, most of which now come in a
barge every two weeks.

"Logistically, it would just be an incredible challenge," Leary said.

Planning for a potential exodus has not involved Cuban officials, Leary said.
Top officers based at Guantanamo Bay regularly meet with their Cuban
counterparts to discuss low-level practical issues such as how to fight fires
that frequently scorch the dry brush that surrounds Guantanamo Bay.

Castro, 80, has not been seen in public since he temporarily handed over power
to his brother, Defense Minister Raul Castro, and underwent emergency intestinal
surgery in July.

In past periods of turmoil, thousands of Cubans have taken to the sea. The U.S.
Coast Guard has tried to intercept them before they reach land. Under the
so-called wet-foot-dry-foot policy, Cubans intercepted at sea are generally sent
back while those who reach U.S. soil are allowed to stay.

Luis Diaz, a U.S. Coast Guard spokesman in Miami, said officials there aren't
expecting large numbers of immigrants.

"Since (Fidel Castro's) brother took over, we've seen a decrease in migrants,"
he said. "A lot of people expected the opposite, but our numbers indicate there
has been a decrease."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Skin tone bias affects wages, survey finds

BYLINE: By Travis Loller The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Tenn.


MORE EARNINGS o Those with lighter skin have higher salaries, study shows

BEYOND RACE o Study adds evidence of 'preference for whiteness,' professor says

---

Light-skinned immigrants in the United States make more money on average than
those with darker complexions, and the chief reason appears to be
discrimination, a researcher says.

Joni Hersch, a law and economics professor at Vanderbilt University, looked at a
government survey of 2,084 legal immigrants to the United States from around the
world and found that those with the lightest skin earned an average of 8 percent
to 15 percent more than similar immigrants with darker skin.

"On average, being one shade lighter has about the same effect as having an
additional year of education," Hersch said.

The study also found that taller immigrants earn more than shorter ones, with an
extra inch of height associated with a 1 percent increase in income.

Beyond race

Other researchers said the findings are consistent with other studies on color
and point to a skin-tone prejudice that goes beyond race.

Hersch took into consideration other factors that could affect wages, such as
English-language proficiency, education, occupation, race or country of origin,
and found that skin tone still seemed to make a difference in earnings.

That means that if two similar immigrants from Bangladesh, for example, came to
the United States at the same time, with the same occupation and ability to
speak English, the lighter-skinned immigrant would make more money on average.

"I thought that once we controlled for race and nationality, I expected the
difference to go away, but even with people from the same country, the same race
- skin color really matters," she said, "and height."

Although many cultures show a bias toward lighter skin, Hersch said her analysis
shows that the skin-color advantage was not due to preferential treatment for
light-skinned people in their country of origin. The bias, she said, occurs in
the United States.

Economics professor Shelley White-Means of the University of Tennessee at
Memphis said the study adds to the growing body of evidence that there is a
"preference for whiteness" in America that goes beyond race.

Conscious bias?

Hersch drew her data from a 2003 federal survey of almost 8,600 new immigrants.
The survey used an 11-point scale for measuring skin tone, in which 0 represents
an absence of color and 10 the darkest possible skin tone.

From those nearly 8,600 participants, she focused on the more than 2,000 who
were working and whose skin tone had been recorded during face-to-face
interviews.

It is not clear whether the bias is conscious or subconscious, said William
Darity Jr., of the University of North Carolina,.

Hersch said her findings, which will be presented at the annual meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science next month in San Francisco,
could support discrimination lawsuits based not on race, but on color.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Hersch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants here bear torture's mental scars Thousands in this area suffered
violence in homelands, center says.

BYLINE: By Clay Barbour ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 730 words


Like most immigrants, Susan Turay faced a series of challenges when she arrived
in St. Louis nearly two years ago.

She spoke little English, had no job, no money and no home. But in many ways,
those obstacles paled in comparison to the psychological barriers she wrestled
with as a recent refugee and the survivor of torture.

Turay, 37, is one of more than 500,000 torture survivors in the United States,
about 2,500 of them in the St. Louis area alone.

Experts say such survivors often suffer from grief and depression akin to
post-traumatic stress disorder, making the transition to life in another country
all the more challenging.

But a new program at Community Alternatives, a St. Louis area nonprofit mental
health provider, is trying to help survivors overcome their problems by
providing practical life counseling as well as connecting them with mental
health services.

"Very often people who have suffered through torture have trouble managing their
lives," said Barbara Zawier, director of the Survivors Case Management program.
"Paying bills, getting to the doctor, finding the help they need, all of it
seems insurmountable. Add that to the fact that they are in a strange place with
no idea how things work and you have a real problem."

The program started in December and has 35 clients. By summer that number is
expected to reach 95.

Survivors is funded by a federal grant of $238,000 a year for three years,
administered by the St. Louis Mental Health Board.

The board's executive director, Don Cuvo, said his agency has been thinking
about this type of service for six years.

"There are stories of what has been done to these people that is just beyond
comprehension," he said. "This population needed a special set of services and
I'm glad we now have one."

The survivors come from all over the world. The Minnesota-based Center for
Victims of Torture estimates that torture exists in more than 100 countries.
Many of them are well publicized: Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Bosnia, Liberia.

Turay was born and raised in Sierra Leone, West Africa. She was the daughter of
a school superintendent, a prominent man in the province of Magbaraka.

In January l999, rebels of the Revolutionary United Front launched an offensive
against Sierra Leone, capturing many cities from government troops and the
soldiers of a Nigerian-led peacekeeping force. The rebels turned their weapons
on the civilian population, killing thousands. They dragged entire families from
their homes, hacked off the hands of children and adults, burned people alive
and rounded up hundreds of young women and raped them.

On Jan. 5, 1999, the rebels stormed Turay's home, killing her father and younger
brother. She and her sisters were raped, beaten and left for dead.

"I could not move," she said. "I was in pain and very scared. I could not do
anything."

Turay's mother was not in the house at the time. She had taken her youngest son
to the hospital.

She and the rest of her family were evacuated by the Nigerian forces, first to a
refugee camp in Guinea and then finally to one in Ghana.

Her family was split up. Four of her sisters and two of her brothers are still
missing. It wasn't until 2005 that she discovered her mother and youngest
brother were still alive. She has yet to see them.

In 2005, after five years in the camp, Turay received permission to enter the
United States under refugee status. The International Institute handled her
case, bringing her to St. Louis.

She arrived with her husband and nephew and little else. Finding affordable
housing, a steady job and much-needed health care has not been easy.

In December she joined the survivors program. Her case manager, Yvette Spencer,
has steered her toward services that help her pay rent and buy food. Spencer
also takes her to doctor appointments.

"When I came to these people, I knew nothing," Turay said. "I needed help. Now,
even at night, I call and they will help me."

Zawier said Turay's problems are common among the survivors in the program. She
said the trauma gets in the way of their coping skills. This problem is often
exacerbated by the fact that many people from such countries do not believe in
psychological counseling.

"But they understand that their families need to eat and need a safe place to
live," she said. "So we often help them with that first. And then, when they
trust us, we steer them to the counseling they need."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

African assistance agency is rallying

BYLINE: By Roberto J. Manzano ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 338 words


A nonprofit group that helps African refugees and immigrants faced shutting down
last month but will continue operating at least through August, thanks to an
influx of donations.

Since appealing to the community for help in January, the African Mutual
Assistance Association of Missouri has raised nearly $20,000, Gedlu Metaferia,
the group's founder and executive director, said Thursday.

"The way donations are coming in is very encouraging. I'm amazed and heartened
by the outpouring support from the community," Metaferia said. He said nearly
$300 in contributions from interfaith groups, businesses and individuals were
arriving daily at AMAAM's office, housed behind a church on Arsenal Street.

Recent donations, along with $50,000 in grants, will allow the association to
continue operating for seven or eight more months, Metaferia said. The group is
trying to raise another $55,000 to pay for its rent, staff salaries and other
annual expenses. The group employs five people, including Metaferia.

"By April, I'm estimating we can reach our goal," he said.

The association ran into trouble last September when it learned it would lose
about $93,000 in federal funds. The group was on the brink of closing
permanently last month due to its failure to receive grants to make up for lost
state-administered funding from the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement.

In the St. Louis area, there are nearly 6,400 African refugees and immigrants,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey. For more
than two decades, the African Mutual Assistance Association of Missouri has
offered them a one-stop station of free services, including interpreting and
help finding jobs and low-income housing. Clients from throughout the region are
a diverse group, including college students and recent immigrants.

Established in 1983 to help Ethiopian arrivals, the group expanded to help
immigrants from all of Africa.

Staff members are fluent in several languages, including Amharic, Arabic,
Somali, Swahili and Tigrinya.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Notaries posing as lawyers prey on immigrants, lawyers say

BYLINE: By Travis Loller THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, TENN.


When Salvadoran immigrant Irma Yolanda Membreno-Aleman wanted to apply for
temporary asylum, she did what she would have done for any legal matter back
home: She went to see a "notario publico."

It was a lost-in-translation mistake that cost her thousands of dollars, a
rejection of her petition and loss of her work authorization and her job, a
lawsuit claims.

In much of Latin America, most notary publics also are lawyers. In the United
States, a notary public is not a lawyer and cannot give legal advice; a notary
can administer oaths and witness signatures, and that's it.

The difference has allowed scam artists to prey on immigrants with limited
English skills and little understanding of the American legal system by
misrepresenting themselves as lawyers, immigration lawyers say.

It is a growing problem. But prosecutors rarely bring cases against these scam
artists, in part because the victims are often in this country illegally and are
afraid to come forward.

Charles Kuck, vice president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said there have been tens of thousands of cases in which notaries passed
themselves off as lawyers.

Ceja Enterprises Inc. in Nashville advertises itself in Spanish as an office
that provides legal aid, including help with immigration papers. But Carmen Ceja
is only a notary public, and her business card refers to her as a "notaria
publica."

Nashville lawyer Sean Lewis, who is suing Ceja on behalf of Membreno, said many
notaries advertise services they are unqualified to perform, such as tax
preparation and divorce. (Membreno has since gotten her case reopened.)

Ceja's attorney, Geoffrey Coston, said Ceja's employees simply fill out forms
based on what clients tell them, and offer no advice.

He said the sign outside her office advertising legal aid was "a bad sign" that
needed to change. But he said her business card was not confusing to most
people.

In Georgia, the Colombian wife of state Sen. Curt Thompson was almost deported
recently after her dealings with a notary whom she said she thought was an
attorney. The wife, Sascha Herrera, came to the U.S. on a visitor visa in 2003.
She applied for an extension through a "notario," but she said he filed an
asylum application without her knowledge.

Because Herrera was unaware of the application, she missed repeated asylum
hearings and the court issued an order for her deportation.

Kuck, of the lawyers group, said any federal immigration reform that offers some
type of amnesty to illegal immigrants will make the problem worse if action is
not first taken against "notarios" who prey on immigrants. Otherwise, notarios
are "going to be falling from the trees trying to rip people off."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Immigrants get translation, tax help at St. Louis center

BYLINE: By Aisha Sultan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 345 words


If filling out a stack of tax forms seems like a daunting task for many
Americans, imagine if the forms were written in Chinese.

It could make a stressful situation completely overwhelming.

That's the predicament many recent immigrants face when tackling an annual
American rite of passage - reporting earnings to the tax man. In fact, the idea
of an income tax return is a new concept to many of those from foreign
countries.

Eshet Dagnew, 38, of St. Louis, started laughing when asked whether he had ever
filed his income taxes in his homeland of Ethiopia.

"This is my first time ever," Dagnew said, while waiting his turn Saturday at
the International Institute on South Grand Boulevard. Volunteers spent the day
offering free translation and income-tax preparation services to about 75 people
eligible for the assistance. Gedlu Metaferia was translating for Amharic
speakers from Ethiopia.

"In Ethiopia you pay taxes; there is no refund," he explained.

The institute is among several organizations in the city and county that offer
tax preparation assistance to lower income households. Linda Callanan, an
organizer for Saturday's event, said the institute had more people showing up
for help than the volunteers could handle.

"We had to turn people away," she said. Often, immigrants who are also
supporting parents and other relatives have questions about who qualifies as a
dependent for tax purposes, she said.

Mariam Kadmi, a translator of Farsi and Arabic, said some older working
immigrants rely on their children. They might not know which forms they need to
file and are unfamiliar with the rules and regulations of their new country. And
many are afraid of submitting a mistake to the Internal Revenue Service.

An elderly Chinese couple had been waiting for more than two hours to find out
exactly which form they were missing to file their return, according to Bingxing
Su, a student at St. Louis University who translated for them.

"Language is the biggest barrier," Su said. "When they receive something in the
mail, they don't know if they should bring it or not."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Svea Stromme (left), a volunteer with Gateway Earned Income Tax Credit
Community Coalition, on Saturday explains to Marilyn Rocafort (center), an
interpreter, what Carlos Carranza (right) needs to do to finish filing his
income taxes. Carranza, from Peru, was among those at the International
Institute on South Grand Boulevard seeking tax help. Odell Mitchell Jr. |
Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigrants get translation, tax help at St. Louis center

BYLINE: By Aisha Sultan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 345 words


If filling out a stack of tax forms seems like a daunting task for many
Americans, imagine if the forms were written in Chinese.

It could make a stressful situation completely overwhelming.

That's the predicament many recent immigrants face when tackling an annual
American rite of passage - reporting earnings to the tax man. In fact, the idea
of an income tax return is a new concept to many of those from foreign
countries.

Eshet Dagnew, 38, of St. Louis, started laughing when asked whether he had ever
filed his income taxes in his homeland of Ethiopia.

"This is my first time ever," Dagnew said, while waiting his turn Saturday at
the International Institute on South Grand Boulevard. Volunteers spent the day
offering free translation and income-tax preparation services to about 75 people
eligible for the assistance. Gedlu Metaferia was translating for Amharic
speakers from Ethiopia.

"In Ethiopia you pay taxes; there is no refund," he explained.

The institute is among several organizations in the city and county that offer
tax preparation assistance to lower income households. Linda Callanan, an
organizer for Saturday's event, said the institute had more people showing up
for help than the volunteers could handle.

"We had to turn people away," she said. Often, immigrants who are also
supporting parents and other relatives have questions about who qualifies as a
dependent for tax purposes, she said.

Mariam Kadmi, a translator of Farsi and Arabic, said some older working
immigrants rely on their children. They might not know which forms they need to
file and are unfamiliar with the rules and regulations of their new country. And
many are afraid of submitting a mistake to the Internal Revenue Service.

An elderly Chinese couple had been waiting for more than two hours to find out
exactly which form they were missing to file their return, according to Bingxing
Su, a student at St. Louis University who translated for them.

"Language is the biggest barrier," Su said. "When they receive something in the
mail, they don't know if they should bring it or not."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Svea Stromme (left), a volunteer with Gateway Earned Income
Tax Credit Community Coalition, on Saturday explains to Marilyn Rocafort
(center), an interpreter, what Carlos Carranza (right) needs to do to finish
filing his income taxes. Carranza, from Peru, was among those at the
International Institute on South Grand Boulevard seeking tax help. Odell
Mitchell Jr. | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Photos show Anna Nicole embracing Bahamian official

BYLINE: By Michael Melia THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, Bahamas


Photographs of a clothed Anna Nicole Smith in bed embracing the Bahamian
immigration minister who approved her application for permanent residency
revived a political scandal Monday.

Two photographs published in The Tribune of Nassau on Monday showed Smith and
Immigration Minister Shane Gibson, both fully clothed, embracing. In one of the
photos, their faces are just a few inches apart.

Gibson, an elected member of Parliament from the ruling Progressive Liberal
Party, has already been accused of showing Smith preferential treatment by
quickly approving her residency application last year.

Cassius Stuart, leader of the Bahamas Democratic Movement, said Gibson has
"shamed" the Bahamas and called for him to resign. General elections are
expected this spring.

Gibson did not return calls seeking comment. But government spokesman Al
Dillette dismissed any suggestion of impropriety.

John Marquis, managing editor of The Tribune, said he published the pictures
because of their potential political impact.

"For the Bahamas, it's not just a salacious story," he said. "It's a story with
pretty far-reaching political implications."

Also Monday, Ford Shelley, the son-in-law of the G. Ben Thompson, the American
developer embroiled in an ownership dispute over the Nassau house where Smith
was living, said he found methadone in her bedroom refrigerator.

A private pathologist has said methadone contributed to the death of Smith's
20-year-old son Daniel in the Bahamas in September. Daniel Smith died while
visiting his mother and newborn half-sister in a Bahamas hospital, and an
inquest into his death in the Bahamas is planned.

Smith said Thompson had given her the house as a gift. Thompson said he loaned
Smith money for the house.

Ron Rale, a lawyer for Smith and representative of her most recent companion,
Howard K. Stern, scrambled Monday to keep control over items he said were stolen
from the mansion over the weekend. Rale said police have recovered all the
missing property.

Stern has since reclaimed the mansion and is staying there with the baby,
Dannielynn Hope Marshall Stern.

Also Monday, Zsa Zsa Gabor's husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt said he plans
to file a paternity challenge to gain custody of the baby, even if it costs him
his marriage to Gabor.

"If the court rules in my favor, I will go to the Bahamas and pick up the
child," he said, noting that he would ask for a DNA test.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Home cooking African immigrants bring familiar foods and favorite flavors to
their new lives in St. Louis

BYLINE: By Pat Eby Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: LET'S EAT; Pg. L1

LENGTH: 2166 words


Egusi seeds. Berbere. Cassava fu-fu. Red palm oil. Exotic ingredients for most
St. Louis cooks, but for refugees and immigrants from African nations, these
foods create the tastes of home.

Traditional African dishes vary from country to country, but a fragrant
spiciness and full flavors are common features.

"Saying 'I like African food' is like saying 'I like European food,'" said Ron
Klutho, program coordinator for refugee and immigrant services at Community
Alternatives, a social-service agency.

"We identify Italian, German and Spanish foods as distinctive, but we
(Americans) say 'African' as though it's a monoculture." In fact, each African
country's unique food preferences have been shaped by trade, culture,
colonization and climate.

I first tasted my neighbor's Somali-style home cooking at block parties. Her
signature samboosas, made of ground beef fragrant with spices, stuffed into a
wrapper and fried to a golden brown, went down faster than the neighborhood
girls could double-Dutch jump-rope.

My neighbor moved before I learned to make samboosas. I wanted to duplicate
them, but the recipes I tried were Americanized, without the unique spiciness
I'd so enjoyed.

As I searched the Internet and the library's cookbook collection, I discovered
that in most African cultures, recipes are passed down orally rather than
written out. Still searching, I called African Immigrant and Refugee Services.
Khadija Osman, a Somali native and a caseworker at the agency, agreed to help me
cook more authentically.

Osman, her husband and children came to St. Louis in 1993.

"In Africa, we cooked fresh foods every day, just what we needed," she said. "We
had no refrigerator. We didn't need one." Now Osman cooks on Saturdays and
Sundays, stocking her refrigerator with food.

"There is just no time in America," she said. "In Africa, we went to the market
every day. Not now."

Osman gave me a long list of ingredients.

"Here are the spices," she said. "We give this to our new clients. For
samboosas, you buy ground meat, onions and garlic. You need Maggi (bouillon
cubes). Other things - basmati rice, yellow food coloring. ...

She suggested I shop at Jay International Foods, 3172 South Grand Boulevard, and
the African Grocery Store, 3558 South Grand Boulevard.

Both stores stock rice, dried beans, lentils, meat and seasonings. Jay carries
more fresh vegetables, including true yams (not the more common sweet potatoes),
plus condiments, flours and foods from around the world.

The African Grocery Store specializes in Somali foodstuffs.

"We are an African store," explained owner Abshir Hossen. "The Somali people
gather here." Many are members of his clan.

Saturday seems to be a good day to shop at the African Grocery Store. Store
hours are posted, but the door is sometimes locked during the week.

In addition to foodstuffs, Hossen and his wife, Jad Said Gusha, cook Somali
specialties, which are available as carryout. They have no set menu, but
fragrant basmati rice and pasta in a rich tomato-cilantro-garlic sauce are
offered each day. Meats include chicken, beef, steak and goat cooked with sliced
onions and spices until tender. Breaded, crisply fried kingfish and cod sell out
early. Side dishes may be sautéed spinach, green beans or a pan of oven-roasted
potatoes, carrots and onions. The salad is chopped iceberg lettuce with tomatoes
and onions, topped with a splash of lime juice, chopped cilantro and creamy
ranch dressing.

"Our next place will have a restaurant where we can seat American customers,"
Hossen said. He plans to move to a new location within six months.

My cooking lessons continued over the next weeks with two more visits to African
Immigrant and Refugee Services. I brought ingredients. Osman explained how she
cooks them. I brought samples of my samboosas and received a critique - "too
sweet. No cinnamon."

Here are the resulting recipes - some told to me, others researched. Enjoy.

---

BERBERE SPICE MIX (MEDIUM-HOT) Ethiopia

Yield: about 1/2 cup

2 teaspoons ground ginger

1/2 teaspoon ground cumin

1/4 teaspoon ground allspice

1/2 teaspoon ground fenugreek

1 teaspoon ground coriander

1/4 teaspoon ground cloves

1 teaspoon finely ground black pepper

2 teaspoons ground red (cayenne) pepper

1 teaspoon sweet paprika

3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Mix all ingredients together in a glass jar; cover tightly. Store in the
refrigerator for up to six months.

---

BERBERE SPICE MIX (HOT) Ethopia

Yield: About 3/4 cup

1 tablespoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger

2 teaspoons cumin seeds

5 whole allspice

1 teaspoon fenugreek seeds

1 teaspoon coriander seeds

5 whole cloves

1 teaspoon green cardamom seeds (without husks)

1 teaspoon whole black peppercorns

5 teaspoons hot red pepper flakes

1 teaspoon ground turmeric

1 tablespoon paprika

3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Place a small, heavy skillet (not nonstick) over medium-high heat. When hot, add
ginger, cumin, allspice, fenugreek, coriander, cloves, cardamom, black pepper
and red pepper flakes. Toast spices for 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Let
cool.

Transfer to a mortar and pestle or grinder; grind to a fine powder. Mix in
turmeric, paprika and cinnamon. Transfer to a jar; cover tightly. Store in the
refrigerator for up to six months.

---

DORO WAT Ethiopia

Yield: 8 servings

2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts

2 limes

1/2 cup spiced, clarified butter (see recipe)

3 cloves garlic, minced

1 large yellow onion, finely diced

1/4 cup medium-hot or hot berbere spice mix (see recipes)

1/4 cup tomato paste

1 chicken bouillon cube

2 cups boiling water

6 hard-cooked eggs

Cut chicken into 3-inch pieces. Place in a shallow bowl or baking dish. Quarter
the limes; squeeze juice over chicken. Cover and refrigerate, turning chicken
after 10 minutes to coat both sides with lime juice.

Meanwhile, melt spiced butter over low heat in a large, heavy frying pan. Add
garlic; cook for 7 to 10 minutes. Increase heat to medium, add onion and sauté
for 10 minutes. Stir in spice mix and tomato paste. Dissolve bouillon cube in
boiling water; add to pan. Simmer over medium-low heat for 15 minutes, stirring
occasionally.

Remove chicken from lime juice; discard juice. Add chicken pieces, one at a
time, to pan. Stir to coat chicken with sauce. Cover and cook over medium heat,
stirring occasionally, until the chicken is tender, 20 to 25 minutes.

Peel eggs; slice about three-quarters of the way through (so eggs will fan out).
Add to the pan during the last 5 minutes of cooking.

Remove chicken pieces and eggs to a shallow serving dish. Pour sauce over
chicken.

Per serving: 333 calories; 21g fat (57 percent calories from fat); 11g saturated
fat; 262mg cholesterol; 29g protein; 7g carbohydrate; 2.5g sugar; 1.5g fiber;
470mg sodium; 57mg calcium; 406mg potassium.

---

SPICED CLARIFIED BUTTER Ethiopia

Yield: About 1 3/4 cups

1 pound unsalted butter

1 medium yellow onion, coarsely chopped

3 large cloves garlic, smashed and coarsely chopped

1 inch of stick cinnamon

3 whole cloves

1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg (for best flavor) or ground nutmeg

4 whole green cardamom seed pods, smashed with the flat of a chef's knife to
open pod

Melt butter over medium heat, letting it come to a slow boil. White foam will
rise to the surface.

Stir onion, garlic, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and cardamom into melted butter.
Reduce heat to very low; cook for 45 to 50 minutes.

Strain butter through several layers of cheesecloth. Don't squeeze out the
cheesecloth. Discard the cheesecloth with the spices and the milk solids.

Store spiced, clarified butter in the refrigerator; use as a highly flavored
cooking oil. The butter will last for three to six months.

Per tablespoon: 126 calories; 14g fat (100 percent calories from fat); 9g
saturated fat; 40mg cholesterol.

---

SPICY GREEN BEANS Somalia

Yield: 4 servings

1 pound fresh green beans, stem ends snapped off

2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

1 tablespoon light African or toasted Asian sesame oil

1 teaspoon red pepper flakes

Salt

Ground black pepper

Have ready a large bowl of ice water. Bring 3 quarts water to a roiling boil.
Add green beans; cook for 2 minutes. Drain, then plunge beans into ice water.
Drain again; pat dry.

Heat oils in a heavy skillet over medium heat. Add beans; toss to coat with oil.
Add pepper flakes; toss to combine. Cook 4 to 5 minutes, stirring often. Season
with salt and black pepper to taste; serve immediately.

Per serving: 131 calories; 10.5g fat (72 percent calories from fat); 1.5g
saturated fat; no cholesterol; 2g protein; 7g carbohydrate; 1g sugar; 3.5g
fiber; 6mg sodium; 38mg calcium; 218mg potassium.

---

SAMBOOSAS, SOMALI-STYLE (Spicy Fried Pies)

Yield: 30 to 36 samboosas

2 tablespoons olive oil

1 medium yellow onion, diced fine

1 pound ground chuck

1 tablespoon finely minced fresh garlic

1/2 cup chopped flat-leaf parsley or cilantro

1 teaspoon ground turmeric

1 teaspoon ground cumin

1 teaspoon finely ground black pepper

1 hot green chile pepper, finely minced, or 1 teaspoon dried red pepper flakes,
ground

1 beef bouillon cube or salt to taste

1/4 cup boiling water

15 to 18 egg-roll wrappers

2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

2 tablespoons cool water

Vegetable oil (such as canola), for frying (see note)

Heat olive oil in nonstick skillet. Add onion; sauté 2 minutes. Add beef and
garlic. Brown the meat, breaking it up with a spatula. The meat should be in
pieces the size of the onion. Add parsley or cilantro; mix well. Stir in
turmeric, cumin, black pepper and chile pepper.

Dissolve bouillon cube in boiling water. Add to beef mixture. Cook, stirring,
until water evaporates.

Cut egg-roll wrappers in half, forming rectangles. To keep wrappers pliable,
cover with a slightly damp kitchen towel (not terry cloth) or a damp paper
towel.

In a small bowl, stir together flour and cool water, making a paste.

Place one egg-roll rectangle on the work surface, short edge facing you. Add 1
heaping tablespoon of the meat mixture at the edge closest to you. Fold right to
left into a triangle. Continue folding edge over edge, always making triangles
(like folding a flag). Close the last triangle flap with the flour paste. Repeat
with remaining filling and wrappers. Set aside finished triangles on a plate,
using waxed paper to separate the layers.

Pour 1/2 inch oil into a large, heavy skillet or pot, such as cast iron. Place
over medium-high heat. To test the temperature, fry 1 samboosa; it should brown
on both sides in 3 minutes.

When oil is hot, fry samboosas 3 or 4 at a time; drain on paper towels. Serve
warm.

Per samboosa (based on 30): 102 calories; 4.5g fat (40 percent calories from
fat); 0.5g saturated fat; 9mg cholesterol; 5g protein; 10.5g carbohydrate; no
sugar; 0.5g fiber; 182mg sodium; 12mg calcium; 34mg potassium.

Tester's note: For additional flavor, add 1 tablespoon light African or toasted
Asian sesame oil to the vegetable oil.

---

RED LENTILS AND BASMATI RICE WITH SPINACH

Yield: 8 servings

For rice:

2 cups basmati rice

1 teaspoon salt

For lentils:

12 ounces dried red lentils

2 (15-ounce) cans chicken broth

1 green bell pepper, finely chopped

1 (7-ounce) can chopped green chiles

1 large yellow onion, sliced and separated into rings

2 cloves garlic, minced

2 tablespoons medium-hot or hot berbere spice mix (see recipes, page L4)

For spinach:

1 tablespoon light African or toasted Asian sesame oil

1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil

1 pound baby spinach, stems removed

Salt

Ground black pepper

For garnishes:

Egg yellow powder (see note) or mild paprika

2 plum tomatoes, seeded and diced, optional

1 teaspoon light African or toasted Asian sesame oil, optional

Lime slices

Chopped flat-leaf parsley

To prepare rice: Place rice in a 2-quart bowl. Cover with cold water. Mix with
your hands. Drain water. Repeat 2 or 3 times, until water remains clear. Let
rice soak in clear water for 1 hour.

Bring 3 3/4 cups water and salt to a roiling boil in a 4-quart saucepan. Drain
soaked rice; add to boiling water. Stir well. Return to a boil, cover, reduce
heat to a very slow simmer and cook for 15 minutes. Turn off heat; let stand for
10 minutes. Fluff with a fork.

Meanwhile, prepare lentils: Combine lentils and broth in a 4-quart pan. Bring to
a boil, reduce heat to a simmer and cook 10 minutes. Add bell pepper, chiles,
onion, garlic and spice mix. Cook over low heat until lentils are tender, 20 to
30 minutes.

Shortly before lentils and rice are ready, prepare spinach: Heat oils in a large
skillet over medium-high heat. Add spinach. Stir to coat with oil; cook until
just wilted. Remove from heat. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

To assemble: Scoop rice onto a platter. Sprinkle lightly with egg yellow powder
or paprika. Arrange spinach leaves just inside the ring of rice. Top spinach
with lentils. Toss tomatoes in sesame oil; spoon over lentils. Twist lime
slices; arrange on platter. Sprinkle with parsley.

Per serving: 403 calories; 7g fat (16 percent calories from fat); 0.5g saturated
fat; 3mg cholesterol; 17g protein; 68g carbohydrate; 4g sugar; 12g fiber; 940mg
sodium; 74mg calcium; 505mg potassium.

Note: Egg yellow powder is sold at the African Grocery Store, 3558 South Grand
Boulevard.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  BLACK HISTORY MONTH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Jad Said Gusha prepares Somali specialties in the kitchen of the
African Grocery Store, 3558 South Grand Boulevard.  Photo by Karen Elshout |
Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Owners Abshir Hossen and Jad Said Gusha pause for a
moment in the kitchen of the African Grocery Store.  Photo by Karen Elshout |
Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Red Lentils and Basmati Rice With Spinach   Photo by
Karen Elshout | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Spicy Green Beans and Doro Wat Photo by
Karen Elshout | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Samboosas, Somali-Style Photo by Karen
Elshout | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Jad Said Gusha brings bread to two lunchtime
customers, Ruquya Dirir and Ardo Adam, at the African Grocery Store. Following
tradition, women eat in the kitchen and men eat in another room. A new store
will have a dining room for American customers, says owner Abshir Hossen.  Karen
Elshout | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bayless schools offer English for immigrants moving to area

BYLINE: By Theresa Tighe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 644 words


In the Bayless School District about four in 10 students try to decipher a
foreign language, English, while they learn their lessons.

Some speak only a few words of English. Some understand English and speak it but
need to learn to read and write in the language of their family's new home. In
the high school, youngsters have spoken 20 languages including Albanian,
Bosnian, Chinese, Norwegian, Spanish and Vietnamese before they spoke English.

Some 40 percent of the district's 1,608 students are learning English as a
second language.

The Affton area, which includes the Bayless district, has become a hot real
estate market for refugees and immigrants.

Why? The median value of a house is $97,000. It's close to the St. Louis sites,
where social service agencies first settled them, and the new residents say they
like suburban lawns and schools.

The Le sisters, Trang Le, a sophomore, and Tram Le, a freshman, are two of those
students. Their family recently emigrated from Vietnam.

How much English the girls understand is a mystery because they can't tell
anyone. Trang smiles and displays her growing skills by greeting visitors with a
clear "Hello. How are you?"

English-language learners at Bayless are immersed in the language. In other
classes, students who speak their language help them. The sisters spend 90
minutes a day in a special English language class.

The first thing they learn is survival language: Where is the girls' bathroom?
What is the cafeteria? Then they listen to English, learn to converse and work
on letter and word sounds. Finally they concentrate on reading and writing.

It takes a student who has a first language other than English about seven years
to reach the proficiency of a native speaker, said Dawn Thieman, English
language learning coordinator.

At Bayless, about one-third of the English-language learners are Bosnian. About
6 percent are Vietnamese, and about 2 percent Hispanic.

In the Missouri Assessment Program, the statewide test that measures compliance
with the No Child Left Behind Act, last year only 15 percent of Bayless'
limited-English students were proficient in communications arts. On that test,
after the first year, English-language-learning youngsters are expected to
perform at the level of a native speaker.

The Bayless district measures success one student at a time.

For sophomore Jasmina Bajric, whose family is from Bosnia, school and English
have been a struggle.

Her greatest frustration was knowing the answers to questions but not having the
English to answer them. She studied hard and has been motivated by her dream of
designing fashions. She finds reading a book along to a cassette very helpful.

She said, "To keep going I would remember how it would help me and what I could
do."

Junior Ardi Zegullaj, happy as a soccer player who has scored a winning goal,
said that his Albanian family became citizens recently.

Ardi, a young man who almost always has a theory and a plan, claimed he owes his
almost accent-free English to "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood." Ardi and his sister
Marsida, a senior at Bayless, watched the show every day of their first summer
here eight years ago. They barely spoke a word of English. Ardi was 10 then. He
said they would watch and listen and repeat.

By the seventh grade, when his family moved from the city to Affton, he mostly
needed help with grammar. He no longer needs the special English classes.

Ardi was an announcer for the basketball team before he took up the sport. He
also plays soccer, is on the student council and is making plans for a career in
international business using his skills in the English and Albanian languages
and math, which he calls the universal language. He says his lack of fear of
talking to people in his then-broken English helped him make America his home.

He tells others beset by language problems. "Every immigrant goes through this."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  SOUTH ST. LOUIS COUNTY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Mary Sanchez, corrects Tram Le, 15, a freshman at Bayless High School,
as she reads aloud during the "English as a second language" class on Thursday.
Stephanie S. Cordle | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Sailor's widow is given reprieve of one year Husband's death put a halt to
petition for permanent residency.

BYLINE: By Stephen Deere ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 344 words


Nok Kells still finds her situation befuddling. The U.S. government is paying
military death benefits to her and her two children, but at the same time
telling her she has no legal basis to remain in the country.

Now, at least, the Thai woman has a year to try to figure out what she should
do.

Kells learned Monday that the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services has granted her deferred action, meaning that it will take no action on
her case until March 2008.

Kells married U.S. naval officer Robert Kells in July 2005. This time last year,
he was killed in a motorcycle accident in Wildwood.

His death put a halt to her petition for permanent residency. If they had been
married two years, the petition could have gone forward, according to
immigration law.

The deferred action allowed Kells to renew her drivers license and extends to
her two daughters, ages 11 and 17.

"I finally got my license," she said. "I can relax. There's less stress than
before."

Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services office in St. Louis, said Kells should use the year to try
to get a job. If an employer would petition the government on her behalf, it
would be the first step in Kells becoming a permanent resident, Moyer said.

"She's got to play it smart and be careful," he said.

Kells' late husband's father, Tom Kells, has been helping her navigate the
immigration system. "We would like to see her stay and her children finish their
education," he said.

He said this weekend would be the first anniversary of his son's death. Robert
Kells was a petty officer first class in the Navy.

He met his wife in Beijing in 2003 and was living in Wildwood working as a
recruiter when he died. The accident occurred just a short distance from the
couple's home.

Tom Kells said he and his wife, Karen, are Nok Kells' only support system.

"We were kind of thrown together because of our son's death," he said. "That is
kind of the last attachment we have to our son."

---

STLtoday.com/links Read earlier coverage of the case of Nok Kells.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2007



CORRECTION: The late Robert Kells was a petty officer first class in the Navy.
This report incorrectly listed his rank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Nok Kells and U.S. Navy officer Robert Kells married in 2005. He was
killed a year ago in a motorcycle accident in Wildwood. Family photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The Show Me (the Money) State

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 529 words


It's been a tough week for Missouri Gov. Matt Blunt. On top of the continuing
furor over his belated firing of state agriculture director Fred Ferrell comes
word that Mr. Blunt inadvertently may have outsourced state jobs to illegal
immigrants.

The governor immediately called not a news conference but a "breaking news
conference" Tuesday night to announce that he'd cancelled the contract of the
firm his administration had hired to do the janitorial work formerly done by
state janitors.

It had been said that the private firm would get the work done more cheaply, and
on Tuesday it became clear how the firm could do so. That was when the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency detained at least 25 of the firm's
janitors who are suspected of having phony work documents. "We cannot tolerate
employers who are unlawfully employing workers at the expense of honest
hard-working citizens," Mr. Blunt said.

Would that Mr. Blunt had acted so aggressively when he learned from a Missouri
Highway Patrol investigation that Mr. Ferrell had been hugging and kissing some
of his female employees, suggesting that they enter wet T-shirt contests,
praising them as "show-dogs" and suggesting that women had no place supervising
male employees.

Instead, the governor's office tried to arrange a private settlement. When the
supposed deal with the aggrieved employee blew up last week, Mr. Blunt fired Mr.
Ferrell and started looking for other people to blame.

First, he tried blaming state Attorney General Jay Nixon, claiming the private
deal unraveled because Democrat Mr. Nixon refused to represent Mr. Ferrell, a
state employee in the Republican governor's administration.

When that fuzzy explanation failed to gain traction, Mr. Blunt's chief of staff,
Ed Martin, tried to explain why the eight highest-paid staffers in the
governor's office are all men. The "two most important people in our office" are
women, Mr. Martin said, referring to executive assistant Linda Imhoff and
scheduling director Carolyn Loethen.

Ms. Imhoff and Ms. Loethen are so important that their combined salaries -
$47,556 and $40,000 respectively - are $29,000 less than the $116,850 salary of
the chief of staff.

The latest explanation emanating from Jefferson City involves Jane Drummond, who
had just become Mr. Blunt's general counsel last May when the Ferrell story
broke. Ms. Drummond, who has since become director of the state department of
Health and Senior Services, looked into the matter and approved the decision to
not to fire Mr. Ferrell. Part of the reason she did so, she told the
Post-Dispatch earlier this week, is that witnesses' memories conflicted.

Actually, the Highway Patrol's investigation showed a remarkable consistency in
witness accounts of Mr. Ferrell's behavior toward women employees.

The precise facts and sequence of events of the Ferrell Flap are continuing to
emerge, which may make this an opportune time to recall the fundamental lesson
of Watergate and, most recently, the Scooter Libby convictions: "It's not the
crime that gets you; it's the cover-up." The slogan could be printed on T-shirts
and passed out to Jefferson City staffers. Dry T-Shirts, of course.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our View  |  SEXUAL HARASSMENT OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO -  Fed Ferrell

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

HEADS UP | DEADLINES | GUIDELINES | HOT LINES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 413 words


Israeli alternative rock band plays at SIUE

An alternative rock band from Israel, missFlag, will appear at 7 tonight at the
Southern Illinois University Edwardsville Religious Center. The free concert is
sponsored by the United Campus Ministries and presented by the Jewish Federation
of Southern Illinois with support from the Consulate General of Israel to the
Midwest.

The five-piece band from Jerusalem has been compared to Coldplay, another
popular international group. The band can be heard at www.myspace.com/missflag.

Undocumented immigration is topic of lecture

Marty Jones, a lawyer and immigration specialist with the Immigration Project,
will discuss undocumented immigrants in the Metro East area in a presentation
Wednesday at the Edwardsville Public Library, 112 South Kansas Street.

The League of Women Voters of the Edwardsville Area will sponsor the lecture,
which is free and begins at 7 p.m.

Relay for Life will hold organizational meeting

The American Cancer Society Relay for Life of Riverbend is holding an
organizational meeting at 6 p.m. Thursday for team captains and those interested
in forming teams. The meeting will be in the Hatch Meeting Rooms at Alton
Memorial Hospital.

Teams will be able to select a campsite, obtain a schedule of events and learn
about fundraising opportunities. Relay representatives will explain how teams
can use the Relay for Life website, www.acsevents.org/relay/il/riverbend, to
register teams, recruit walkers and raise money for their teams.

This year's relay will be held overnight June 22-23 at East Alton-Wood River
High School. It begins at 6 p.m. Last year's relay attracted 52 teams and raised
more than $125,000. This year's goal is $145,000.

Forum will address news coverage of kidnappings

Ethics in news coverage of the kidnappings of William "Ben" Ownby and Shawn
Hornbeck will be the topic of a public forum at noon Thursday at Webster
University.

The free program, sponsored by the Press Club, will be moderated by former TV
anchor Julius Hunter. The forum will be in the Sunnen Lounge of the University
Center, 175 Edgar Road.

Participants will be Gordon Ankney, a former prosecutor; Larry Baden, a media
ethics expert at Webster; Patrick Gauen, a Post-Dispatch editor; Benjamin
Lipman, a media law attorney; and Charles Jaco, a reporter for KTVI (Channel 2).

For reservations for box lunches (at $10 for Press Club members, $12 for
others), contact Glenda Partlow at 636-227-2100, ext. 1973, or at
stlpressclub@logan.edu

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Calderon questions U.S. approach

BYLINE: By Peter Baker Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico


Mexican President Felipe Calderon chided President George W. Bush on Tuesday for
trying to build a wall between their two countries and lamented that the
American leader never made Mexico the priority he once promised it would become
during his presidency.

As he welcomed Bush for their first meeting since taking office in December,
Calderon set a polite but firm tone, raising some of the toughest issues in
U.S.-Mexican relations. The comments underscored the difficulties that may lie
ahead in two days of talks between the leaders.

Among the top issues was U.S. legislation, signed by Bush last year, authorizing
700 miles of fencing and other barriers along the U.S.-Mexican border. Calderon
acknowledged that a better way to halt illegal immigration would be for his
government to improve social and economic conditions in Mexico, so that his
people do not feel driven to head north to support their families.

Mexicans respect Americans' right to decide how to handle their security,
Calderon said. "But at the same time, we do consider in a respectful way that we
may truly stop the migration by building a kilometer of highway in Michoacan or
Zacatecas than 10 kilometers of walls in the border."

In another pointed remark, Calderon recalled how Bush had promised as a
candidate in 2000 to put Mexico at the top of his foreign policy agenda.
"Unfortunately, the terrible happenings against the United States people made
that - in a very understandable way, the priorities changed," he said, referring
to the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. "Nevertheless, I believe that it is now time
to retake the spirit of those words and to direct our relationship toward a path
of mutual prosperity."

While vowing to fight drug-running in his country, Calderon also pointed out the
U.S. responsibility for stopping the demand.

Bush has acknowledged that the United States needs to do more to reduce the
domestic demand for drugs, but he defended the border barrier during a stop in
Guatemala on Monday as a reasonable means of enforcing immigration laws. He did
not directly rebut Calderon but promised to push for immigration legislation at
home that would address their mutual problems.

"I respect your views on migration," Bush said. "Because we're working together,
I believe we will make good progress on this important issue."

He added: "My pledge to you and your government - but, more importantly, the
people of Mexico - is I will work as hard as I possibly can to pass
comprehensive immigration reform."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - President George W. Bush tours the Quadrangle of the Nuns of the Uxmal
ruins Tuesday with Mexican President Felipe Calderon in Uxmal, Mexico. Uxmal is
dominated by the Pyramid of the Magician, which stands 117 feet high. Uxmal was
once home to 25,500 Mayans.  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigrants discover power of citizenship

BYLINE: By Susan Ferriss McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: WILLIAMS, CALIF.


On a recent balmy afternoon, a group of women at a park in this small town in
northern California celebrated the imminent birth of a baby with tamales and
gallons of horchata, a Mexican cinnamon punch made with rice.

Talk in Spanish turned to the flavor of the punch - which had been prepared with
bottled water - and then to the flavor of the water that flows in people's homes
here, which the women described as being as foul sometimes as rotten eggs.

Griselda Gonzalez, a hotel maid, suggested that if immigrants such as themselves
wanted to do something about the water, those who can, must become U.S. citizens
and use their votes.

"If those of us who can become citizens don't do it, we have only ourselves to
blame for putting ourselves on the sidelines," said Gonzalez, 49, who is proud
to have ascended from undocumented farmworker to homeowner, mother of a U.S.
Navy veteran and, as of 2005, American citizen.

Mexican immigrants such as Gonzalez have long served as the silent backbone of
the farm industry that dominates Williams and the rest of Colusa County, about
an hour's drive north of Sacramento.

Change has been slow in coming in these remote parts. But Latinos here are
starting to become more outspoken about their desire to have a greater say over
the quality of public services, the allocation of taxpayer dollars and the
wooing of better-paying jobs.

Colusa County's population of barely more than 21,000 has become, over the
years, almost half Latino and more than 27 percent foreign-born. As of a few
years ago, half of Williams' approximately 3,700 residents were noncitizens.

Countywide, according to the 2000 U.S. Census, at least 76 percent of Colusa's
immigrants were not naturalized citizens.

Because few Hispanics vote, many immigrants believe, the county lacks a Latino
supervisor, and the city of Colusa has no Latino city council members. Williams
has had only one.

A national backlash against Mexican immigrants and undocumented workers has left
residents here indignant, though, and that is starting to change the composition
of the electorate. So, too, is aggressive organizing to help eligible immigrants
become citizens, in the process transforming them into activists for better
water, safer streets, more activities for children.

Colusa County has plenty of undocumented immigrants who don't qualify for
citizenship. But it is also home to a sizeable reservoir of legal residents who
received green cards through family ties or through a federal amnesty Congress
enacted in 1986.

Gonzalez is emboldened by her new right to vote.

Her breakthrough came, she said, when she signed up in 2005 with a
Sacramento-based group called the North Valley Sponsoring Committee, which has
guided more than 100 immigrants in Colusa County through the naturalization
process.

While immigrants study for their citizenship test, organizers begin teaching
them community-organizing methods.

"The more qualified the local people, the better," said Colusa Heritage vice
president Jim Resney.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Eligio Ortiz (center) and fellow Latino immigrants practice the process
of being sworn in as U.S. citizens in a citizenship class earlier this month in
Williams, Calif.   Sacramento Bee / MCT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sex abuse of child immigrants is alleged

BYLINE: By Alicia A. Caldwell THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, TEXAS


Everyone has been cleared out of a federal shelter for child immigrants amid
allegations that a single staff member sexually abused some of the youngsters.

The employee, who was not identified, was suspended and later fired from his job
at the shelter in Nixon, a town of 2,200 people about 50 miles southeast of San
Antonio. Federal officials would not discuss how many children had been abused,
or their ages.

Joshua Trent, associate director of the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement,
said officials visited the facility days after learning of the abuse
investigation in mid-February.

The children, who were being held at the Away From Home shelter after trying to
cross the border alone, were removed to "err on the side of caution," Trent
said.

The last child left the shelter March 7.

It was unclear whether the federal government would cancel its contract with the
shelter or whether the shelter would be used again, Trent said.

Gonzalez County Sheriff Glen Sachtleben turned the case over to federal
authorities.

But federal prosecutors referred the case back to Gonzalez County District
Attorney Vicki Pattillo. She could not be reached for comment by The Associated
Press.

Shelter officials referred questions to Trent's office.

Trent said anyone working at the facility must pass a "stringent" background
check that included a screening for any criminal records.

Trent said children who were not believed to be abuse victims were transferred
to other facilities, reunited with relatives in the United States or deported.

News of the shelter investigation comes as state officials wrestle with a
growing scandal over allegations of sexual abuse at juvenile jails in Texas.
Sachtleben said the accusations about the shelter were different.

"Nothing indicates we have sex offenders entrenched in this situation,"
Sachtleben said. "We have a report of an impropriety that is being worked on."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Reaching out to the immigrant community, Banks go international

BYLINE: By Jerri Stroud ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1067 words


The small but growing immigrant population here has caught the attention of a
few banks, mostly those with branches in south St. Louis, where many immigrants
have settled.

Although the banks here aren't developing products with specific groups in mind,
several have hired foreign-born tellers and loan officers who can help fellow
immigrants navigate the growing array of U.S. banking products. Some banks
advertise on Bosnian radio programs and in Bosnian newspapers.

The St. Louis area has 108,621 foreign-born residents making up 4 percent of the
population, compared to 12.4 percent nationwide.

Immigrants make up a little more than 6 percent of the population in St. Louis
and St. Louis County. Mexicans and Bosnians are the two largest immigrant groups
here, with several Asian nationalities close behind.

Anna Crosslin, president and chief executive of the St. Louis-based nonprofit
International Institute, said several banks have gained a reputation for being
immigrant-friendly. The institute provides social services to new immigrants.

"It depends mostly on where the bank is located, and whether there are
immigrants nearby," Crosslin said.

Southern Commercial Bank's Bevo branch, 4914 Gravois Avenue, has been nicknamed
the "Bosnian bank" among some members of the immigrant community.

Some banks said their approach is to take more time with foreign-born customers,
and to take advantage of any employees who speak an immigrant's language.

Southern Commercial's Bevo branch is in the heart of a south St. Louis
neighborhood where many Bosnians have settled and started businesses in the last
15 years. Bosnians are the second-largest foreign-born group in the St. Louis
area, after Mexicans.

Ljiljana Cvijanovic, an assistant vice president at Southern Commercial, said
the late Robert W. Hawkins, who had been chairman of the bank, hired and
promoted several Bosnians after seeing them embrace the neighborhood.

"As a bank, we needed to respond to the community," said Cvijanovic, who joined
Southern Commercial in 2000. By having employees who speak the language, the
bank builds trust with immigrant customers, particularly those with limited
English.

Cvijanovic started as a loan officer trainee. She was promoted to assistant
branch manager and then branch manager before moving into commercial lending at
the bank's branch at 5515 South Grand Boulevard.

Ron Moser, a senior vice president at the bank, said the Bosnian employees have
brought in business as word has spread that the bank is friendly to Bosnians.

Building a credit history

Employees like Cvijanovic work with customers to help them build credit
histories. "We started with small personal loans to people with no established
credit history," she said.

The bank would lend such customers a few thousand dollars to buy a used car or
furniture. As they paid back the loans, the bank offered them credit cards and
other accounts. Cvijanovic has seen many customers go on to buy homes and start
small businesses.

The Bevo branch of Southern Commercial often serves as a meeting place for
Bosnians, she said.

As more Bosnians have moved to south St. Louis County, Southern Commercial's
location on Lindbergh Boulevard has become popular with the community.

Southern Commercial also has Vietnamese employees and a teller from Azerbaijan,
Cvijanovic said. "As we had those employees, customers have been coming to the
people they know, and it's easier to communicate," she said.

Pulaski Bank, which began as a Polish-American savings and loan in 1922, also
has gone after business with Bosnians, said Chris Reichert, executive vice
president. Pulaski's branches at 3760 South Grand in St. Louis and at 4226
Bayless Avenue in South County are popular with Bosnians.

Bringing in business

Several Bosnian employees have brought significant business to the bank,
Reichert said.

Two Bosnian loan officers, Elmin Zahirovic and Alma Murselovic, have originated
$20 million in home loans and opened hundreds of checking accounts in the last 1
1/2 years, Reichert said.

Zahirovic said he was happy to move to the bank from another mortgage company
because "now I can offer my fellow Bosnians more things," including checking and
savings accounts, certificates of deposit and other loans.

Zahirovic said the key to doing business with immigrants is having someone they
trust, especially if that person can speak their language. He and Murselovic
advertise Pulaski's services in Bosnian newspapers and on Bosnian radio shows,
and he leaves his business cards on the counters of Bosnian restaurants and
other businesses.

"I'm connected with the community," Zahirovic said.

The importance of having Bosnian employees "is more than just the fact that they
speak the language. They trust Elmin and Alma to take care of them," Reichert
said.

Other banks have taken advantage of employees' knowledge of languages and
culture to build their own relationships with immigrants.

Miriam Long, a native of Panama, has brought Spanish-speaking customers to First
Bank's branch at 120 Jefferson Street in St. Charles. Long previously worked at
another bank, and she said many of her Spanish-speaking customers followed her
to First Bank.

Long said she has seen customers' faces light up when they see a
Spanish-speaking person in the bank. New immigrants "don't understand the
language, and they don't trust anybody," she said. When the bank has employees
who speak Spanish, it can begin to build trust.

The number of Hispanic customers in St. Charles County "is huge and is growing,"
she said. Wentzville, O'Fallon and Troy all have significant Hispanic
populations.

However, Long said, customers have called her "from all over" after seeing her
card in a Hispanic business or at another First Bank branch.

---

Keys to doing business with immigrants

o Have someone on staff who speaks the language.

o Build trust with the community.

---

Where are they from?

Top 10 countries of origin for foreign-born residents of the St. Louis area

1. Mexico 15,042 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina 14,484 3. India 8,271 4. China (ex.
Hong Kong, Taiwan*) 6,198 5. Vietnam 5,788 6. Germany 4,629 7. Philippines 4,187
8. South Korea 3,393 9. United Kingdom 2,604 10. Canada 2,558

* The Census Bureau keeps track of residents born in Hong Kong and Taiwan
separately. If you add them, China is still No. 4, but the total metro area
population born there is 8,196.

Source: Census Bureau, 2005 American Community Survey

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Sejad Muhic talks with teller Snezana Trivic, a fellow Bosnian, in the
Southern Commercial Bank on Gravois Avenue. As St. Louis' immigrant population
grows, area banks are making efforts to be more immigrant-friendly by hiring
staff members with multilingual skills.  Kevin Manning | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

St. Louis metro area is holding its own Population is nearly steady, with
immigrants offsetting those who left.

BYLINE: By Clay Barbour ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH The Associated Press contributed
to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 644 words


The St. Louis melting pot is getting more flavor, helping to stabilize the
region's population.

The continued growth of the immigrant community is a big reason why the St.
Louis metropolitan area remained the 18th largest in the nation, according to
new figures from the U.S. Census Bureau. The region's population stayed at about
2.8 million as of July, the census estimates show.

Over the past six years, the St. Louis area had a net gain of 26,000 immigrants,
according to the figures, and that helped offset the loss of about 23,000 people
who moved from here to other parts of the U.S.

Other metropolitan areas experienced a similar growth pattern, including New
York, Boston, Los Angeles and San Francisco, though at much higher numbers.

Many older, established metro areas have long been a destination for immigrants.
But increasingly, as residents move away from these areas, immigrants are
providing the only source of growth.

"Immigrants are filling the void as domestic migrants are seeking opportunities
in other places," said Mark Mather, a demographer at the Population Reference
Bureau, a private research organization.

The New York metro area added 1 million immigrants from 2000 to 2006. Without
those immigrants, the region would have lost nearly 600,000 people.

Without immigration, the Los Angeles metro area would have lost more than
200,000, the San Francisco area would have lost 188,000 and the Boston area
would have lost 101,000.

The Census Bureau estimated the population totals using birth and death records,
Internal Revenue Service records of people moving within the United States and
census statistics on immigrants.

The newly released estimates were for metropolitan areas, which generally
include cities and their surrounding suburbs. Locally, the figures cover the
city of St. Louis and 15 surrounding counties, including those in the Metro East
area.

There are about 36 million immigrants in the U.S., a third of which are in the
country illegally. The Census Bureau does not distinguish between legal and
illegal immigrants.

In the St. Louis area, immigrants make up about 5 percent of the total
population, according to the census bureau, compared to more than 12 percent
nationwide.

Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute of St. Louis, said such
studies often underestimate the true number of immigrants in a community.

By far the largest groups of immigrants here are from Mexico and
Bosnia-Herzegovina. But while the census pegs the Bosnian population at about
15,000, local estimates range as high as 50,000.

The region is also home to immigrants from Africa, the Middle East and China,
among others.

"We have as much diversity as you would find in Chicago," Crosslin said. "It's
just that our numbers of each group are smaller."

Anthony Ramirez, one of the founders of the local Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
remembers when many Mexican immigrants bypassed St. Louis for more lucrative
labor jobs in Chicago and a more comfortable family atmosphere 15 years ago.
"But the atmosphere for the entire Hispanic community has changed over the years
and now people feel more comfortable making this home."

Twelve years ago, Ahmed Mohamed and his family left their home in Somalia,
looking to escape the civil unrest taking place there.

They first went to Kenya and stayed in camps, waiting for their chance to come
to America. Mohamed, 53, arrived in St. Louis in September 2005. Today he works
as an outreach counselor, working with new immigrants, for a local nonprofit
group. His family lives in the city and his five children attend St. Louis
schools.

He has settled into life and grown used to a faster pace than he had back home.
He still struggles at times with English, but otherwise he enjoys his new home.

"It is a civil place, where you can express your ideas without fear," he said.
"My family very much appreciates that."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (ST. LOUIS SKYLINE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

St. Louis area holds its own Metropolitan area rankings Population is nearly
steady, with immigrants offsetting those who left.

BYLINE: By Clay Barbour ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH The Associated Press contributed
to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 661 words


The St. Louis melting pot is getting more flavor, helping to stabilize the
region's population.

The continued growth of the immigrant community is a big reason why the St.
Louis metropolitan area remained the 18th largest in the nation, according to
new figures from the U.S. Census Bureau. The region's population stayed at about
2.8 million as of July, the census estimates show.

Over the past six years, the St. Louis area had a net gain of 26,000 immigrants,
according to the figures, and that helped offset the loss of about 23,000 people
who moved from here to other parts of the U.S.

Other metropolitan areas experienced a similar growth pattern, including New
York, Boston, Los Angeles and San Francisco, though at much higher numbers.

Many older, established metro areas have long been a destination for immigrants.
But increasingly, as residents move away from these areas, immigrants are
providing the only source of growth.

"Immigrants are filling the void as domestic migrants are seeking opportunities
in other places," said Mark Mather, a demographer at the Population Reference
Bureau, a private research organization.

The New York metro area added 1 million immigrants from 2000 to 2006. Without
those immigrants, the region would have lost nearly 600,000 people.

Without immigration, the Los Angeles metro area would have lost more than
200,000, the San Francisco area would have lost 188,000 and the Boston area
would have lost 101,000.

The Census Bureau estimated the population totals using birth and death records,
Internal Revenue Service records of people moving within the United States and
census statistics on immigrants.

The newly released estimates were for metropolitan areas, which generally
include cities and their surrounding suburbs. Locally, the figures cover the
city of St. Louis and 15 surrounding counties, including those in the Metro East
area.

There are about 36 million immigrants in the U.S., a third of which are in the
country illegally. The Census Bureau does not distinguish between legal and
illegal immigrants.

In the St. Louis area, immigrants make up about 5 percent of the total
population, according to the census bureau, compared to more than 12 percent
nationwide.

Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute of St. Louis, said such
studies often underestimate the true number of immigrants in a community.

By far the largest groups of immigrants here are from Mexico and
Bosnia-Herzegovina. But while the census pegs the Bosnian population at about
15,000, local estimates range as high as 50,000.

The region is also home to immigrants from Africa, the Middle East and China,
among others.

"We have as much diversity as you would find in Chicago," Crosslin said. "It's
just that our numbers of each group are smaller."

Anthony Ramirez, one of the founders of the local Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
remembers when many Mexican immigrants bypassed St. Louis for more lucrative
labor jobs in Chicago and a more comfortable family atmosphere 15 years ago.
"But the atmosphere for the entire Hispanic community has changed over the years
and now people feel more comfortable making this home."

Twelve years ago, Ahmed Mohamed and his family left their home in Somalia,
looking to escape the civil unrest taking place there.

They first went to Kenya and stayed in camps, waiting for their chance to come
to America. Mohamed, 53, arrived in St. Louis in September 2005. Today he works
as an outreach counselor, working with new immigrants, for a local nonprofit
group. His family lives in the city and his five children attend St. Louis
schools.

He has settled into life and grown used to a faster pace than he had back home.
He still struggles at times with English, but otherwise he enjoys his new home.

"It is a civil place, where you can express your ideas without fear," he said.
"My family very much appreciates that."

---

Metropolitan area rankings Population is nearly steady, with immigrants
offsetting those who left.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - (St. Louis skyline)  GRAPHIC - CHANGING CITIES | AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 462 words


RANCHO MIRAGE, CALIF.

Betty Ford, hospitalized, nears another birthday

Betty Ford, widow of former President Gerald R. Ford, received birthday messages
along with her get-well cards Friday as she remained hospitalized after surgery.

Ford, who turns 89 on Sunday, underwent an unspecified operation earlier in the
week and was "recovering well" at Eisenhower Medical Center, her office said.

BOSTON

Judge's order blocks immigrants' deportation

A Massachusetts judge on Friday temporarily barred federal officials from
deporting a large group of illegal immigrants snared in a factory raid last
month.

U.S. District Judge Richard Stearns granted the emergency request from lawyers
for the immigrants, who argued that about 110 of 360 workers arrested March 6
may have agreed to waive an appeal of their deportation order under duress or
with improper translators.

Attorneys for the detainees say federal immigration officials tried to hurry the
deportation and separate the former Massachusetts workers from their lawyers and
families by taking many of them to holding centers in Texas.

Mark Grady, an assistant U.S. attorney, argued at a hearing Friday that
Massachusetts had limited bed space to hold detained immigrants.

COALFIELD, TENN.

Fire at oil well injures two workers

An explosion and fire at an oil well injured two workers Friday morning and sent
smoke over eastern Tennessee, a rural area dotted with small oil and gas wells.

Workers drilling for oil hit a gas pocket shortly before 9 a.m. at a new well
owned by Atlas America Inc., company spokesman Darrell Trett said. "It's rare
that an explosion occurs when you hit a gas pocket, but it happens," he said.

The well is about 30 miles west of Knoxville in a mostly rural area without many
homes.

NEW YORK

Dispute cited in killing inside car at airport

A dispute between friends erupted in gunfire inside a car at Kennedy
International Airport on Friday, leaving one man dead and a gunman on the loose,
authorities said.

New York Police Department spokesman Paul Browne said authorities suspect the
dispute involved drugs.

The victim and his girlfriend were driving a friend to the airport to catch a
flight when the men started arguing, authorities said.

The gunman apparently shot the boyfriend as the woman was approaching an airport
terminal, police said. The gunman then told the woman to drop him off.

The woman drove to a nearby house for help, but her boyfriend was pronounced
dead at 6 a.m., about 30 minutes after the shooting, authorities said.

NASHVILLE, TENN.

Blaze near airport destroys two buildings

An apartment complex near Nashville's airport caught fire Friday afternoon,
destroying two buildings and sending up black smoke that could seen across town.

The fire may have started in a kitchen, the fire department said.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Wounded in war, honored at home Army Sgt. Wade Walling's son Logan
looks up at him during a Purple Heart ceremony Friday at Walter Reed Army
Medical Center in Washington. Six soldiers got Purple Hearts for injuries
suffered in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.   Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

it's everyone's family story of pursuing dreams

BYLINE: By Anita Anton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 532 words


When my two sets of grandparents and my father arrived on the shores of the
United States, the Statue of Liberty welcomed them and millions of other
immigrants like them. In recent months, we have been inundated with news about
new waves of immigrants crossing borders to live in the Land of the Free, and
they've made me reflect on stories my mother told me as a child.

My paternal grandfather, Andrew Gasparovic Sr., came from a small village in
Croatia. A stonemason by trade, he first came to America in 1904 to earn money
to help pay expenses on the family farm back home. Returning to Croatia, he met
a neighbor's daughter, Ursula Domian, at a church dance. Andrew, a mostly
taciturn man, compared his first sight of her to being "struck by lightning."
They married.

Andrew soon returned to America on his own, drawn by the bright future of making
a good life for his family. He ended up in St. Louis and wrote to Ursula to
bring their young son, my father, Andrew Jr., and join him. Together with
another young friend who was a midwife, they crossed the ocean, landed at New
York and traveled by train to St. Louis.

My maternal grandmother, Mary Krofta, was 13 and spoke no English when she left
her village in the Ukraine at the urging of her Aunt Julia and traveled by ship
with a cousin to reach, eventually, Madison. Julia, who had arrived here
earlier, had promised Mary that she could attend school and have a wonderful
life here.

My maternal grandfather, Harry Kuryla, was born in the Galicia area of Ukraine.
To avoid forced service in the Russian army, he stole his brother's passport and
secured passage on a ship sailing to America. A network of friends and family
led him to Madison, where he found work in the steel mills.

Upon meeting Mary, according to family lore, he was immediately smitten, and
through the intervention of Aunt Julia, they were married when Mary was just 15.

My parents, Ann and Andrew, met at a cousin's wedding. As happened to his father
before him, it was love at first sight. But like Romeo and Juliet, they had a
problem: Croatians and Ukrainians hated each other. So they met in secret until
their romance finally was discovered and, eventually, accepted by both families.

What drove these people, some so very young, to leave their homeland more than
100 years ago and make such a perilous a journey, traveling thousands of miles
to a foreign land with a foreign language, armed with only their God-given
talents and a hunger to succeed?

I imagine their dreams of freedom, a new life, a new beginning: Today, the
extended family descended from them includes a bricklayer, a psychologist, a
designer, stay-at-home mothers, teachers - lots of teachers - doctors, coaches,
military troops, computer experts, entrepreneurs, plenty of dreamers and a
writer.

For me, the immigration issue is an issue of faith and dreams. One way or
another, we all started somewhere else. Whatever our race, creed or religion, we
all want to be here for the same reasons our parents and grandparents made that
fateful journey and for the same reasons today's immigrants risk so much: to
live where it is possible to fulfill one's dreams. Can we really keep that from
anyone else?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR LOCAL CONTRIBUTORS OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (Statue of Liberty) Seth Wenig | AP  PHOTO - Anita Anton  PHOTO - The
author's maternal grandparents, Harry Kuryla and Mary Krofta.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Missouri, Illinois join national tech revival BUST WILL IT LAST? Industry warns
of looming worker shortage.

BYLINE: By Rachel Melcer ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 775 words


Missouri and Illinois are adding information technology jobs for the first time
since the dot-com bubble burst in 2000 - but industry leaders warn that without
significant changes in education and immigration policy, the trend could
reverse.

Nationwide, companies that sell IT products and services added 146,600 jobs in
2006, building on growth that began in 2005 after four years of dramatic
decline, according to a study set for release today by the nonprofit technology
trade group AeA. With nearly 5.8 million jobs last year, the industry remains
shy of its peak employment of 6.6 million in 2000, but AeA said it is
encouraged.

But one of the good signs - a low level of unemployment among electrical
engineers, computer programmers, systems managers and other IT professionals -
could indicate a choke point.

To avoid an IT worker shortage, the United States must admit more foreign
workers with temporary work visas in the short term, and focus more on domestic
math and science education as a long-term fix, said William Archey, AeA's
president and chief executive.

In the St. Louis region, "the industry is doing very well," said Willem Bakker,
executive director of the Information Technology Coalition of Innovate St.
Louis, a nonprofit group formed to champion and nurture IT workers and
entrepreneurs.

Missouri ranked 19th among states in IT employment, with 88,300 workers at 5,500
firms who earned a total of $5.8 billion in 2005, the most recent year for which
state-level data is available, the study said. In Illinois, the 7th-ranked
state, 205,700 IT workers at 15,400 companies earned a total of $15.4 billion.

And those numbers leave out what local business leaders say is equally
significant for the local economy: people who create and manage information
technology used within a non-IT corporation.

"We have been able to retain and be stable, and actually increase the
involvement of IT in the success of St. Louis' main enterprises," Bakker said.

For example, Monsanto Co., which sells genetically modified and hybrid seeds, is
building a $19 million data center at its Creve Coeur headquarters. The company
has more than 600 IT workers in the St. Louis area among 1,000 it employs
globally, which represents nearly 6 percent of its total work force, said
spokeswoman Sara Duncan.

"Without that kind of IT infrastructure, we wouldn't be able to do the kind of
work that we do," she said.

Monsanto amasses terabytes of data on the genomic structures and performance of
corn, soybeans, cotton and canola. The company's IT team gathers, stores and
analyzes all of that information, putting it in a form that's useful to crop
scientists, Duncan said.

Those types of jobs may not be as visible to the community as those at pure IT
companies such as Town and Country-based Savvis Inc., which stores data and
manages Internet networks, or downtown's Asynchrony Solutions Inc., which
develops software applications. The Information Technology Coalition is working
to change that, Bakker said.

"We have a real challenge, to put a proper light on IT as a career for people
and as a vibrant opportunity" for the region, he said.

At the moment, St. Louis is building a national reputation as a place with an
available, relatively low-cost IT work force, said Richard Fleming, president
and CEO of the St. Louis Regional Chamber and Growth Association.

"A substantial number of companies, particularly from the East Coast, are
looking at St. Louis for relocation of IT jobs because ... we seem to have a
much more fertile supply" of workers, he said.

Yet Missouri mirrors the nation in its need to improve education and training
programs, beginning at the grade-school level. It needs to do more to retain
highly skilled graduates of local universities.

"There clearly is concern about a (worker) shortfall, and that is an economic
threat," Bakker said. "Large corporations, if the work force isn't there, they
will send their work to be done someplace else."

----

THE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY

In Missouri

o Employs 39 of every 1,000 private sector workers.

o Pays an average wage of $65,400, 81 percent more than the state's private
sector average.

o Is focused on telecommunications services, computer system design and Internet
services.

In Illinois

o Employs 42 of every 1,000 private sector workers.

o Pays an average wage of $74,900, 71 percent more than the state's private
sector average.

o Is focused on computer systems design, telecommunications services, and
research and development and testing labs

SOURCE: AeA. Figures are for 2005, the most recent data available.

STLtoday.com/links Get complete coverage of the Virginia Tech shootings and
their aftermath.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Computer operators Theresa Sipos (left) of St. Charles and Chris Aikin
of Maryland Heights address a network outage in Brazil at Monsanto's Global
Enterprise Operations Command Center in Creve Coeur on Monday. The company has
more than 600 information technology workers in the St. Louis area among 1,000
it employs globally. Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fears whittle away at marches

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigration rallies held across the country Tuesday produced only a fraction of
the million-plus protesters who turned out last year, as fear about raids and
frustration that the marches haven't pushed Congress to pass reforms kept many
at home.

In Los Angeles, where several hundred thousand turned out last year, about
25,000 attended the first of two scheduled rallies, said police Capt. Andrew
Smith, an incident commander. In Chicago, where more than 400,000 gathered a
year earlier, police officials put estimates at about 150,000.

Organizers said those who did march felt a sense of urgency to keep immigration
reform from getting pushed to the back burner by the 2008 presidential
elections.

"There's no reason a pro-immigration bill can't be passed. That's one of the
messages being sent today," said Chicago protester Shaun Harkin, 34, of Northern
Ireland, who has lived in the United States as a legal resident for 15 years.

Melissa Woo, 22, an American citizen who emigrated from South Korea, criticized
politicians for "buckling at the knees."

"Us immigrants aren't pieces of trash, we're human beings," she said. "To be
treated as less than human is a travesty."

Protests were mostly peaceful, except for a rally in Los Angeles, where some
suspected of throwing rocks and bottles at police were arrested. Police fired
rubber bullets and used batons to push the crowd onto the sidewalk. It was not
immediately known whether anyone was injured.

Organizers had predicted lower turnouts for the marches, saying an increase in
immigration raids in recent months have left many immigrants afraid to speak out
in public.

Others believe that the marches have not pushed Congress to pass immigration
legislation, and many groups are now focusing on citizenship and voter
registration drives over street demonstrations.

But smaller crowds does not mean the movement to win a path to citizenship for
12 million illegal immigrants has lost momentum, organizers said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MAY DAY IMMIGRATION PROTESTS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A Latino man stops at a Bank of America automated teller machine in Los
Angeles on Tuesday, during a march to City Hall. It was one of several May Day
marches nationwide for immigrant and labor rights. The protests were smaller
than last year's. Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Would you believe the United States, Canada and Mexico will merge, with a
'SuperCorridor' through an immigration and trade center in Missouri? Don't. It's
an urban legend.

BYLINE: By Philip Dine POST-DISPATCH WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1694 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Forget the conspiracy theories about JFK's assassination, the black helicopters,
9/11 or any others. This is the big one - as big, in fact, as the entire
continent.

We're talking about the secret plan to build a superhighway, a giant 10- to
12-lane production, from the Yucatan to the Yukon, with an immigration and trade
center in Missouri. This "SuperCorridor" is to allow the really big part of the
plan to take place: the merging of the governments of Canada, the United States
and Mexico. Say goodbye to the dollar, and maybe even the English language.

The rumor is sweeping the Internet, radio and magazines, spread by bloggers,
broadcasters and writers who cite the "proof" in the writings of a respected
American University professor, in a task force put together by the
ultra-establishment Council on Foreign Relations and in the workings of the U.S.
Commerce Department.

As do many modern rumors, the fears of a North American Union begin with a few
grains of truth and leap to an unsubstantiated conclusion.

"Nobody is proposing a North American Union," says Robert A. Pastor, a professor
at American University to whom conspiracy theorists point as "the father of the
NAU." They cite his 2001 book, "Towards a North American Community: Lessons from
the Old World for the New," as the basic text for the plan. They also point to
his co-chairmanship of a Council on Foreign Relations task force that produced a
report in 2005 on cooperation among the three countries.

This is no backwoods rumor, no small-time concern. Google "North American Union"
on the Internet and you'll find 90,800,000 references. When a Commerce
Department official appeared on a C-SPAN show a few weeks ago, most callers
asked about the North American Union.

On one recent day alone, Pastor says, he got 100 e-mails on the topic. "They get
turned on by (CNN's) Lou Dobbs and (Fox's) Bill O'Reilly, who are fearful that
Mexicans and Canadians are about to take over our country," Pastor says, adding
that such claims are a product of "the xenophobic or frightened right wing of
America that is afraid of immigration and globalization."

Not that he doesn't think cooperation - short of a merger - is a good idea. He's
testified before Congress on improving coordination within North America.

"The three governments are trying to grope toward a better way to relate to one
another, but they are trying to do it under the radar screen, because they know
any initiative would be both controversial and difficult to get approval of," he
says. "But precisely because they're doing it so quietly, the conservative crowd
is concerned that they're really doing something important. But they're not. The
real problem is that the three governments are asleep on the issue."

Missouri hub

Missouri is a key element of the rumor. The state allegedly is to serve as a
customs inspection station, described as "a huge hub of immigration and trade
where Interstate 35 meets Kansas City."

The supposed superhighway is to be a monster, with high-speed passenger and
freight rail lines attached to the many lanes, plus fuel pipelines, water, fiber
optics and electric power, with gasoline and food concessions, stores, hotels
and emergency services in the median. The whole thing would be as wide as four
football fields and would carve up a number of states in the central United
States.

Writing in the current edition of Range magazine, author Tom Findley explains:
"Under the plan, more than 500 million people are meant to be literally
incorporated into the North American Union as early as 2010. They are expected
to share natural resources, military defense and a universal system of education
that will alter long-held values, customs and traditions and even change their
languages. Law enforcement, health care and cultural activities as well as
virtually all trade will be financed with the new currency of the North
Americans: the 'Amero.'"

The evidence? The article doesn't say.

Conservative commentator Patrick Buchanan writes that under the North American
plan, "the illegal alien invasion would be solved by eliminating America's
borders and legalizing the invasion."

Phyllis Schlafly, president of the conservative Eagle Forum, shares those
concerns. "It looks like what (President George W.) Bush and his friends want is
economic integration of the three North American countries, which is the only
explanation I can see for his failure to close the border and obey the
immigration laws," she said.

"We don't want to be integrated with any other country."

'Evolution by stealth'

Tom Fitton is president of Judicial Watch, a conservative group that promotes
accountability in government and that gained fame for going after then-President
Bill Clinton. He said that his group was "investigating" the rumors and that
although it hadn't uncovered proof positive, the Bush administration was fueling
suspicion by the way it was handling the issue.

"You've got all these ministries in the three countries working trilaterally on
transportation, energy, food safety, health, pandemics and border security,"
Fitton says. "The concern from some on the right is that the process is not as
transparent as it ought to be, and that it is a threat to sovereignty in the
sense that they're talking about integration instead of just cooperation."

Fitton says much of the activity dates to the establishment on March 23, 2005,
of the Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America by Bush,
then-Mexican President Vicente Fox and then-Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin.

Notes obtained from the U.S. government after a meeting in Canada in September
2006 contained the phrase "evolution by stealth," Fitton says, which he called
"not exactly a phrase that inspires confidence coming from a government
official. You see that kind of thing and you think the critics are right, or
have reason to be concerned."

Chappell Lawson, an MIT political science professor with expertise in Mexico and
political communications, said the efforts to coordinate among the three
countries had merit - and problems.

"I think the three governments are going about this without a lot of input from
civil groups and the general public, and I think there's not sufficient
transparency in the process," he said. "The agenda isn't arrived at through a
public and deliberative process. I think what they're doing is net beneficial,
but it's probably going to have a pro-business bias to it."

'Standard diplomacy'

Matt Englehart, spokesman for the Commerce Department's International Trade
Administration, said the North American partnership "is absolutely not a
precursor" to a loss of American sovereignty.

"It's about smart and secure borders, promoting the safe and efficient movement
of legitimate people and goods," Englehart said.

He described the work being done among the three governments as "standard
intergovernmental diplomacy and coordination that occurs all the time on various
issues."

What about that highway?

The federal government has no plans for a superhighway, Englehart said, but
"there are private and state-level interests" pushing something similar. "They
describe themselves as NAFTA corridors, but they're not federally driven
initiatives, and they're not part of the Security and Prosperity Partnership."

Rep. Mike Krusee, R-Texas, who is chairman of the state's House Transportation
Committee, says that he knows of no plans to build a superhighway through Texas
and that those who think otherwise are "a bunch of nuts."

He alleges that commentators who talk of a NAFTA highway or the like are
exploiting people's fears.

"It's jingoistic pandering," Krusee said. "Pat Buchanan can try to sell some
newspapers and Lou Dobbs can try to get more people to watch his little shows,
but I've never heard of it. Certainly, it has never been discussed at any level
of government in Texas."

Merging anxieties

Michael Barkun, a political scientist at Syracuse University who specializes in
conspiracy theories, says a major theme has long been "that schemes are being
hatched to destroy American sovereignty."

"The only thing that's new here is that it appears in the guise of a North
American Union," Barkun says. "Previously it appeared in the guise of UN
domination. I think whatever appeal this has may derive from the fact that there
are pre-existing concerns about trade that have been around since the creation
of NAFTA, and even more strongly the immigration issue in the sense of border
security. So in a way it becomes an issue onto which all kinds of anxieties and
concerns can be projected."

Doug Thomas, professor of communications, technology and culture at the
University of Southern California, says the advent of the Internet has made
conspiracy theories widely available, helping those who believe in such things
"validate their beliefs."

"It's the speed and the distribution. ... People are able to join in and flush
them out a little quicker, so everybody can add a piece to the puzzle," he says.

After a few columns were posted on the Human Events website raising concerns
about the North American Union, others were posted that ridiculed the notion.

"There's a much wider dissemination of counter information because of the
Internet," Thomas says, "so while urban myths spread faster, they also get
debunked sooner."

SOME TOP URBAN LEGENDS

The Civil Rights Act will expire in 2007.

Verdict - Some minor provisions of the Voting Rights Act involving federal
oversight of specific counties were due to expire.

African-Americans are eligible for a special one-time $5,000 tax credit for
"slavery reparations" by filing a specific form.

Verdict - No basis in fact.

Nancy Pelosi wants to tax "windfall profits" from the stock market at 100
percent.

Verdict - Pelosi has said the Democrats want to roll back the Bush tax breaks
for the wealthiest Americans.

There is a bill in Congress to let the Post Office charge a 5-cent surcharge on
every e-mail you send.

Verdict - No basis in fact.

You can get cash from Microsoft (or a vacation from Disney or money or
merchandise from a variety of companies) by forwarding this e-mail.

Verdict - No basis in fact.

---

WHAT ELSE IS TRUE? A look at some other myths that have been busted. Inside |
A12

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2007



CORRECTION: The name of U.S. Rep. Mike Krusee, R-Texas, was misspelled in some
editions of Sunday's main news section in a report about rumors concerning a
merging of the governments of the United States, Canada and Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LAPD use of force scrutinized 'WARRIOR' COP Critics say response to rally
recently is sign that violence is part of culture.

BYLINE: By Andrew Glazer The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Police Department's aggressive response at the end of an immigrant
demonstration is the latest incident highlighting what critics describe as the
force's "warrior culture."

It's an ethos that's been on display before - the use of clubs and tear gas to
disperse 15,000 anti-war protesters in Century City in 1967, the Watts riots,
the Rodney King beating in 1991, and the harsh crackdown on demonstrators at the
2000 Democratic National Convention.

Public outcry and inquiries that followed each event haven't deterred some
officers from cracking a few kneecaps to assert order, even in front of cameras.

Chief William Bratton's criticism of his department and decision to reassign two
high-ranking officers after the immigration rally nearly two weeks ago were
roundly applauded, though skeptics say it's not enough to address issues that
produce violent responses by some officers.

Bratton was appointed in 2002 to steer the LAPD after an anti-gang unit was
found to have assaulted and framed people in the tough Rampart district. Dozens
of criminal convictions were tossed out as a result of the scandal.

Bratton has since had some success in improving community relations, including
his swift action following the May 1 immigration rally violence.

However, skeptics say none of these efforts are enough to address the
deep-seated culture that has caused repeated bouts of excessive force.

"The LAPD is a big ocean liner, and it will take a long time to turn around,"
said Joe Domanick, a senior fellow of criminal justice at the University of
Southern California's Annenberg Institute for Justice and Journalism.

After the King beating, lawyer Warren Christopher, who later became secretary of
state, was tapped to lead a commission in dissecting the department.

The Christopher Commission examined five years of reports, police radio
communications and hearings and interviews with residents and police, and found
that "a significant number of officers" routinely used excessive force.

"The Department not only failed to deal with the problem group of officers but
it often rewarded them with positive evaluations and promotions," the report
said.

The anti-gang unit, known as CRASH - Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums
- "developed an independent subculture that embodied a 'war on gangs'" where the
ends justified their means, the report said.

Since then, Bratton has:

- Restricted police from firing on cars in most cases after officers killed a
13-year-old car theft suspect who rammed a squad car in 2005.

- Banned police from carrying long metal flashlights, after video showed an
officer using one to repeatedly beat a suspect who was lying on the ground.

Bob Baker, president of the police union, turned down a request for an
interview, but he issued a statement defending the police response after the May
1 clash, saying officers responded appropriately when some members of the crowd
threw bottles and rocks at police.

---

Fear of raids may have thinned crowds at a St. Louis rally, organizers say. C1

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - During a May 1 immigration rally, Los Angeles officers approach a crowd
in MacArthur Park. After the department's aggressive response to the rally, its
chief reassigned two high-ranking officers. His action was applauded, but some
say more must be done. Associated Press file photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Rally draws a small crowd

BYLINE: By Aisha Sultan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 528 words


Capitol Focus Activists hope to influence legislators as the U.S. Senate debates
changes.

---

An immigration rally in downtown St. Louis on Saturday afternoon drew about 100
participants - a far cry from the thousands who participated last year. The
dropoff reflects an increasing climate of fear, organizers said.

Immigration activists here also have moved their focus from hitting the streets
to walking the hallways of the state Capitol and taking their message to
neighborhood churches to put a human face on the debate. Still, the rally
Saturday at Kiener Plaza aimed to show Congress and the community that local
activists are still fighting for comprehensive change in the immigration system.

"We just want a process that people can be treated with fairness and dignity,"
said the Rev. Jack Schuler, pastor of Our Lady of Guadalupe parish in Ferguson.

Krysta Perez, immigrant task force leader with Metropolitan Congregations
United, which organized the event, told participants that U.S. senators were
negotiating an immigration bill this week and urged onlookers to call their
legislators. The group supports a six-year path to legality for the country's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. It also calls for eliminating paperwork
backlogs to help reunite families, increasing worker protections and improving
border security.

Schuler brings Hispanic families from his parish to neighboring churches to
share their stories. One mother, who has a visa and submitted her citizenship
paperwork seven years ago, is still waiting for an answer, he said. Her son, who
was also here legally, recently took his grandmother back to Mexico, where his
visa was stolen. He is unable to return, and his mother is unable to go help
him, Schuler said.

"Anybody who has a sense of family can see we have to move to a saner approach,"
he said.

Saturday's smaller turnout followed the trend across the country. Schuler said
violence surrounding the rallies in California might have discouraged some from
attending.

"People are really afraid," he said.

Schuler added that last year's rally was on Sunday with busloads of participants
coming from churches. Many people who might have attended the rally work on
Saturday and would be unable to attend, he said.

Joan Suarez of Jobs for Justice, which helped organize the rally last year, said
the group had joined a statewide coalition to lobby and educate legislators
about immigration issues. She said increased raids by immigration officials had
also contributed to an uneasy climate.

Others are taking a "wait-and-see" attitude to see how the new Democrat-led
Congress acts on the issue. Some believe the massive rallies around the country
last year didn't accomplish the goal, she said.

"In the end, we didn't have immigration reform," Suarez said. The advocacy
coalition, Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates, represents 30 organizations
statewide.

St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay addressed the audience and said the city
appreciated the contribution immigrants made to its revitalization.

Archbishop Raymond Burke of the Roman Catholic church, along with religious
leaders of other faiths, offered a closing prayer at Saturday's rally.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigration reform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Immigration proposal draws doubts in House But Clay calls Senate bill
'humanitarian thing to do.'

BYLINE: By Adam Sichko Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Post-Dispatch reporter
Ron Harris contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A newly minted immigration proposal is probably weeks or months away from being
passing by the Senate, but several members of Missouri's delegation in the House
are already gearing up for a fight.

Republicans fell far short of giving the bill high marks and said it will
probably look quite different by the time it gets through the Senate. Several
Senate members hinted in statements that they also saw changes ahead for the
plan.

Rep. Jo Ann Emerson predicted that it would be difficult to get the House to
pass the bill as it stands now. "I just don't know who you're going to get on
board," she said.

Of the bill's many provisions she opposes, allowing illegal immigrants to earn
permanent citizenship in part by paying a $5,000 fine seemed to trouble Emerson,
R-Cape Girardeau, the most.

"So the price of amnesty is $5,000?" Emerson asked. "I do not believe anybody
who comes to this country illegally should ever be able to get citizenship. I
don't think they should be rewarded.

"If people are here illegally, they should go home and apply just like everybody
else. (The deal) is amnesty, pure and simple. This is more of looking the other
way again and again."

Supporters can count on Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, who called the
compromise "the humanitarian thing to do. It's the most common sense way to
handle this issue."

"Practically speaking, you just don't remove or jail 12 million (illegal
immigrants)," he added.

A spokeswoman for Rep. Roy Blunt, R-Stafford, echoed Emerson's statements that
the immigration deal provides amnesty.

"We'll wait to see what ends up over here (in the House) before we start tearing
apart what the Senate put together. But again, any type of amnesty or any type
of path to citizenship are both huge hurdles for Congressman Blunt," Burson
Snyder said.

Some members of the bistate congressional delegation, including Missouri
Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill, said they couldn't comment on the legislation
because they hadn't seen a copy of the bill yet. Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond,
R-Mo., declined to comment through a spokeswoman, who said he was still
reviewing the bill.

Others were unavailable for comment.

In statements, Illinois Sens. Dick Durbin and Barack Obama, both Democrats,
lauded the immigration deal as a solid step forward, but neither came close to
sounding like a sure "yes" vote.

Durbin spoke of working to improve the bill and added, "Hopefully, those efforts
will result in legislation that we can all support." Obama said he "hopes to be
able to support" the final product.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Study finds few terrorism-related deportation cases Private group notes that
immigration agencies list their primary purpose as anti-terrorism.

BYLINE: By Michael J. Sniffen THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. immigration agencies say anti-terrorism is their primary mission, but they
tried to deport only 12 people on terrorism-related charges from 2004 through
2006, according to a private research study released Sunday.

That group of 12 represents a tiny fraction of the 814,073 people the government
tried to remove from the country during those three years. The study's authors
acknowledge that the figure understates the anti-terrorism effort by the
Homeland Security Department's immigration agencies.

In addition, because no one knows how many terrorists are in the United States
or tried to get in, there is no way to say whether the figure of 12 is too low,
too high or about right.

"The right number is unknowable," study co-author David Burnham said in an
interview. "But the budget and powers of this agency are influenced by all their
talk and rhetoric about terrorism and criminals, and if that isn't what they are
doing, it should be considered by Congress and the public."

Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke said the study failed to appreciate
record-setting enforcement totals. "They seem not to grasp that immigration laws
are a powerful authority in preventing security risks from setting foot on our
soil," Knocke said.

A former New York Times reporter, Burnham is co-director of the Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse. The private research group at Syracuse University
analyzed the work of two Homeland Security agencies - Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection.

The group analyzed records of the more than 200 immigration court judges
employed by the Justice Department back through 1992 and the department's
records of criminal cases brought in U.S. district courts. The records were
acquired under the Freedom of Information Act.

Researchers also found that a separate, broader category of national security
charges were brought to try to deport 114 more people during the three years.
Criminal charges such as human trafficking, drug dealing and other traditional
crimes were used against 106,878, or 13 percent of those the government tried to
deport.

The overwhelming majority of deportation cases - 86.5 percent - were based on
traditional immigration violations such as sneaking past border inspections or
not having a valid visa, the group said.

Homeland Security agencies were credited during the period with producing or
assisting on only 31 of 620 criminal prosecutions in district courts against
defendants whom prosecutors labeled international terrorists, domestic
terrorists or terrorism financiers, the study found.

Last month, Assistant Secretary Julie Myers, who heads Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said, "Our mission remains clear - to protect the United States and
uphold public safety by targeting the people, money and materials that support
terrorists and criminal activities."

The study says deportations and prosecutions are not the full measure of the
agencies' anti-terrorism efforts, which also include patrolling borders and
inspecting cargo. The study also says some people suspected of terrorism may be
charged only with lesser infractions because those are easier to prove and the
maximum penalty for either charge in immigration court is removal from the
country.

Defending the performance, government officials note the absence of major
terrorist attacks in this country since Sept. 11, 2001.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - IMMIGRATION CHARGES BY THE CASELOAD | AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fees for immigrant services will increase

BYLINE: McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Starting July 30, immigrants applying for citizenship, green cards and other
services will pay much more than they do now. The application fee for
citizenship will increase to $675 from $330; it will be waived for the military.

The new fees will double the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' $1.25
billion budget.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Emilio Gonzalez said the
agency needs the extra cash to improve services. He promised "substantial
reductions" in the time it takes the agency to process an application.

He said the fee increases also will allow the agency to move from a paper-based
system to an electronic system.

Almost every immigration or naturalization fee will be raised, and some of the
increases will be substantial, according to figures supplied by U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services.

- The fee to apply for status as a legal permanent resident will rise to $1,010
from $325, including the cost of fingerprints.

- The cost of work permits will rise to $340 from $180.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

America needs its immigrants, Commerce Secretary points out

BYLINE: Philip Dine St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 557 words


Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez has been highly visible the past couple
of weeks defending the president's immigration proposal. The Cuban-born
Gutierrez, former chief executive of the Kellogg Co., recently spoke with
Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau reporter Philip Dine.

Q: What would be the effect of the immigration plan on St. Louis and states in
the Midwest?

A: The counties in the country where immigration growth is the highest also
happen to be the places that are growing their economy the fastest. In Missouri
... 35 percent of the employment growth over the past nine years came from
immigrants. ... It's hard to grow without the immigrants. If you go back to the
1950s, a third of our population had less than a high school degree. Many of
them found a career in those low-skilled jobs. Today it's about five percent.
The low-skilled jobs ... haven't gone away. That's where we need the immigrants,
at very high and very low levels. It becomes an economic necessity.

Q: Some legislators, including Sen. Dick Durbin, want to restrict the visas for
skilled workers, saying they take jobs from Americans. Do you agree?

A: On our own, we're not producing enough mathematicians and engineers and
scientists, so we need to bring in enough of those from the outside. It'll be up
from 65,000 to 115,000, with an escalator up to 180,000. In the past, many of
our scientists have come from overseas.

Q: Are you surprised at the strong opposition to the president's proposal?

A: I believe that the more people hear about this bill, the more they spend time
on it, the more we have time to explain it and answer questions, that people
feel better about it. This is a 300-page bill, it gets into a lot of details,
and people want to describe it with a one-liner, or one word - amnesty. That's
where we get into trouble. When we have town meetings, and are able to explain
it, people get it.

Q: Even among those who don't oppose immigration or seek to take a hard line,
many people question whether the administration can run this type of program.

A: The bill has a part in there that we call triggers, that says we will not
implement this program, we will not bring in guest workers, not grant Z-visas,
until the triggers have been met. They are all about border security and the
employer-verification program, to make sure employers know they're hiring people
who are here legally. We want the opportunity to show that this can work. ... If
we get it right, we're going to have an advantage over just about any other
country in the world.

Q: In Europe, Germany and France have historically had two different approaches
to immigrants. France thought it was an underpopulated country, so when they
brought in immigrants in the decades after WWII, they made them citizens with
all that suggests. Germany, meanwhile, felt that it needed workers but was too
small in size to add millions of permanent citizens, so it made it hard for them
to assimilate. Where does our approach fit in?

A: We have this tradition, that goes back 230 years, of the melting pot. That's
really the vision. In Europe, they did not assimilate people, and they have
communities that are exclusively for the immigrants. A lot of people are
concerned about that here. But they're the same people who thought the Italians
would never assimilate, the Greeks would never assimilate.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Carlos M. Gutierrez is making the case for the president's immigration
proposal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Money sent from U.S. changes Latin America Young people turn from school,
low-wage jobs.

BYLINE: By Juan Carlos Llorca THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: SALCAJA, Guatemala


Working and going to school have become optional in this highland Guatemalan
town, thanks to a flood of U.S. dollars sent home by migrants living in the
United States.

The family-run mills that produce brightly colored, hand-woven traditional
fabrics have fallen quiet as their potential work force - most of them young men
- hang out at the town's pool halls or video game salons, living off remittances
and waiting to make their own journeys north.

"Kids have easy money, and the only thing they know how to do is spend it on
video games," complained Salcaja Mayor Miguel Ovalle. "In this town, school
attendance has fallen, in part, because many go to the U.S., and also because
those who stay don't want to go to school."

Some 48,000 Guatemalans left between 2005-2006, almost all to the United States,
says the Geneva-based International Immigration Organization. It also found that
more than 1 million Guatemalans between the ages of 10 and 20 were getting money
from relatives in the United States last year.

Last year, Guatemalans in the United States sent home more than $3.6 billion, of
which $300 million went to some 300,000 people in the province of
Quetzaltenango, home to Salcaja. That's a substantial cash flow in a $35 billion
economy with an industrial output of just $6.7 billion last year as measured by
gross domestic product.

Similar challenges are evident in other parts of Latin America, where
remittances have made low-wage labor increasingly undesirable. In some places,
local employers are being forced to raise salaries. In others, traditional
industries are simply being abandoned.

"In many communities in Mexico and Central America, remittances have prompted a
healthy competition among employers who offer better salaries because of the
scarce work force, but dependence on remittances has also slowed local economic
growth," said Eliseo Diaz, a researcher with the Colegio de la Frontera Norte,
based in Tijuana, Mexico .

In the 1980s and part of the '90s, almost every household in Salcaja had at
least one loom, and weaving the fabric used for traditional Mayan skirts was the
first way young men earned their own money.

Now, some mill owners have moved their looms to remote, rural villages with
little or no migration, where people will work for a salary of 900 quetzales, or
about $120 a month.

"The thing is that this work is really hard, and you earn very little," said
Secundino Taracena, the owner of one mill. "It's easier for a young person to
sit back and receive money" from the United States.

About 1,000 families in this town of 12,000 people receive their remittances
through a finance and credit cooperative called Salcaja, R.L., which encourages
the development of small businesses under its "More than Remittances" program.

"We want to foster investment, instead of consumption," said the cooperative's
general manager, Romualdo Pizabaj.

But for many, such as Franklin Robles, 32, who lived in Chicago and Trenton,
N.J., for 10 years, wages will always be too low in Guatemala.

"None of the young guys are going to work for the 1,400 quetzales ($200) that
you earn in a month," said Robles, now unemployed. "And why would they study
when someone who goes to school doesn't earn any more than that?"

Many wait to get into the United States - legally or not.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Candidates criticize Bush, handling of war Romney said, 'We were underprepared
and underplanned for what came' after Saddam.

BYLINE: By Glen Johnson The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H.


President George W. Bush drew sporadic, startling criticism Tuesday night from
Republican White House hopefuls unhappy with his handling of the Iraq war, his
diplomatic style and his approach to immigration.

"I would certainly not send him to the United Nations" to represent the United
States, said Tommy Thompson, the former Wisconsin governor and onetime member of
Bush's Cabinet, midway through a spirited campaign debate.

Arizona Sen. John McCain criticized the administration for its handling of the
Iraq war, and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney said, "I think we were
underprepared and underplanned for what came after we knocked down Saddam
Hussein."

Rep. Duncan Hunter of California said the current administration "has the slows"
when it comes to building a security fence along the border with Mexico.

Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado recalled that White House aide Karl Rove had once
told him "never darken the door of the White House." The congressman said he'd
tell George W. Bush the same thing.

The Republicans sprinkled the criticism of Bush throughout a two-hour debate
that ranged over topics from war to immigration legislation pending in Congress
to religion. The debate was the third of the accelerated primary campaign.

None of the 10 men on the debate stage raised their hand in agreement when
moderator Wolf Blitzer of CNN asked whether anyone favored allowing gays to
serve openly in the military.

Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas and Hunter both said they would pardon Vice
President Dick Cheney's former aide, I Lewis "Scooter" Libby, sentenced to 30
months in prison earlier in the day for lying and obstructing a CIA leak
investigation.

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a former prosecutor, said the sentence was
excessive, which "argues in favor of a pardon."

Giuliani had the central role in an unscripted moment of humor.

Asked about a Rhode Island Catholic bishop who criticized him for supporting
abortion rights, Giuliani began to respond when a lightning strike briefly
interfered with the debate hall sound system.

"Look, for someone who went to parochial schools all his life, this is a very
frightening thing that's happening right now," he said to laughter.

The debate drew the announced Republican presidential contenders - but not
former Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee, an actor apparently poised to join the
race in a month's time.

"My name is Thompson. I'm the candidate, not the actor," said Tommy Thompson in
a jab at the man who wasn't there.

Fred Thompson, appearing on Fox News after the debate, said he had watched part
of the give-and-take among his potential rivals. "They did all right from what I
saw," he said.

Much of the debate focused on Iraq.

McCain and Brownback both admitted they voted to authorize the U.S. military
invasion of Iraq without reading the formal, nearly 90-page National
Intelligence Estimate in advance.

The confession drew a jab from former Gov. Jim Gilmore of Virginia. Members of
Congress "ought to read at least that kind of material," he said.

Hunter said he had, the only member of Congress on the debate stage to make the
claim.

Both McCain and Brownback said they had received numerous briefings on the
situation in Iraq before they cast their votes in 2002.

McCain drew loud applause from the partisan debate audience when he turned a
question about the war in Iraq into criticism of the leading Democratic
presidential hopeful, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York.

"When Senator Clinton says this is Mr. Bush's war, President Bush's war," she is
wrong, he said. "When President Clinton was in power, I didn't say Bosnia was
President Clinton's war," the Arizona senator said.

"Presidents don't lose wars. Political parties don't lose wars. Nations lose
wars," he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  REPUBLICANS DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Length of immigration debate splits Congress

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid moved Tuesday to begin ending debate on a
far-reaching immigration bill and threatened to yank the measure from the Senate
floor if Republicans persist in what he described as stalling tactics aimed at
killing the bill.

Republicans, led by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, angrily
responded by accusing the Nevada Democrat of stifling consideration on the
nation's top domestic priority and unfairly bottling up GOP amendments.

"We are going to insist on fundamental fairness," McConnell said in an exchange
with Reid. "This measure may well be the only significant accomplishment of this
Congress."

Reid stressed that he recognized the importance of immigration. But he said that
it was time to begin limiting amendments, winding down debate and moving on to
other issues, such as energy, stem cell research, a farm bill and a defense
authorization.

Many of the proposed amendments, he said, come from senators "who have no
intention of voting for this bill no matter what we do with it."

Reid announced plans to file a motion that would force a Thursday evening vote
to end debate within 30 hours - a cloture motion, which could entangle the bill
in a parliamentary standoff. Republicans vowed to oppose the motion, which
requires a 60-vote supermajority of the 100-member Senate, raising the prospect
of a debilitating filibuster.

Reid, however, said he would remove the bill from the floor if Republicans
carried out their threat.

Senate leaders agreed to consider an amendment by Sen. John Cornyn today after
the Texas Republican renewed charges that backers of the bill have blocked
consideration of his proposal.

The amendment would require illegal immigrants who ignored deportation orders or
tried to re-enter the country after being deported from being eligible for
legalization provisions under the bill.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Pointing fingers across the aisle Immigration o Parties blame each other for
collapse of reform bill.

BYLINE: By Ron Harris POST-DISPATCH WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hours before the controversial bill to reform immigration fell apart,
Mississippi Sen. Trent Lott made an impassioned speech to colleagues from the
Senate floor, imploring them to find common ground.

"Are we men or mice?" asked Lott, a leading Republican.

After the bill went down in flames late Thursday night, mostly because of a lack
of Republican support, Lott said he'd found the answer to his question.

"We're a pack of rodents," Lott said. "This is an issue that we need to find a
resolution on. We're continuing on our path of not producing anything in three
years."

What began with a bang weeks earlier, a 627-page bill heralded by President
George W. Bush and a handful of senators from both parties, ended with a whimper
when almost all of the Republicans and a third of the Democrats voted against
allowing the bill to move forward.

And with that, the finger-pointing began.

Republicans said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., moved too soon to
cut off debate on the bill. They said Reid didn't allow enough of their
amendments to be voted on.

"If the process were allowed to play out over the next few days, I think
actually you would have ended up with a bill," said Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev.

Lott said he had asked Reid to give him 12 hours to gather enough Republican
support to move the bill forward.

"I pleaded with him, but he decided not to do it," Lott said.

Reid countered that Republicans had ample time and that the bill had more
amendments than the immigration legislation that passed in the Senate during the
last session.

He and other Democratic leaders, like Majority Whip Dick Durbin of Illinois,
said most of the Republican-proposed amendments on the table were attempts to
derail the bill.

"What we have seen is a parade of horribles, amendment after amendment offered
by Republicans who will never vote for this immigration bill, who are trying to
embarrass those who support it," Durbin said.

Many Democrats placed the failure of the bill at the feet of Bush, who had made
the issue a priority. Major portions of the bill were written by Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez.

"The White House cleared every word of the bill," Durbin said of the
negotiations that took place before the bill was brought to the Senate.

But Bush was able to rally only a handful of members of his party around the
legislation. In the final count, only seven Republicans voted to move the bill
forward.

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., reflected the sentiments of some when he
said repeatedly that he couldn't support any bill with a path to citizenship for
the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

'Not a good sign'

It wasn't that Bush didn't try to persuade GOP senators, said Sen. Lindsey
Graham, R-S.C., one of the bill's champions.

"President Bush has been intimately involved," Graham said. "He has spent a lot
of his personal time talking to members of the Senate."

That does not bode well for the future of the immigration legislation during
Bush's tenure, said Bob Giuliano, a lobbyist for the Service Employees
International Union, which backed the bill.

"They were really pushing," Giuliano said. "That's not a good sign."

The president couldn't win over his party, in part, because of his low approval
rating, around 29 percent in recent polls, and because many Republicans have
lost faith in his leadership on this issue, some said.

"There was a feeling within his own party that he would sign anything," Lott
said.

Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions, a staunch opponent of the bill, said the
president miscalculated.

"Now the Democrats are blaming him for it," said Sessions, of Alabama. "Perhaps
he deserves it."

Losing centrists

The measure also failed because it didn't draw support from centrists like
Missouri Democrat Claire McCaskill, who said the guest-worker program bothered
her. Four out of every 10 illegal immigrants in the country came here legally
under some type of work or education visa and then simply didn't leave, she
said.

"We clearly know that the guest-worker program is a path to illegal
immigration," she said.

McCaskill, like others, also said she was concerned that the bill wasn't tough
enough on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

"We had a raid at chicken processing plant down in Springfield a week ago," she
said. "They arrested 136 illegal immigrants. ... Not one word about the
employer."

Those on the sidelines who were pushing for the bill said they were deeply
disappointed.

"What we saw ... is a sorry example of why the American people are losing
confidence in their elected leaders," said Frank Sharry, executive director of
National Immigration Forum, a coalition of organizations working towards
immigration reform.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the original sponsors of the bill, held a
news conference with a number of Republican and Democratic senators Friday to
say they would be trying to resurrect the bill over the next few weeks.

But many in Washington think their ability to do so is doubtful.

"A bill like this, it's probably unlikely that it will come back up, but this is
an unusual issue," said Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C. "If for some reason it
doesn't, it's a great missed opportunity to sort out our immigration policy."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E5

LENGTH: 2329 words


PAGE: C K Y M
_________________________________________________________________________
Commentary
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
_______________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
_______________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________ E05PD1FN0610 '
Every man feels instinctively that all the beautiful sentiments in the world
weigh less than a single lovely action.' James Russell Lowell, writer 67
Percentage of British adults who believe there are too many immigrants in their
country, according to the results of an International Herald Tribune/ Harris
Poll 55 Percentage of adults in both Germany and Italy who hold the same belief
35 Percentage of U. S. adults who believe their country has too many immigrants
IMMIGRATION IDLE THOUGHT By Chet Currier I t's tough to get far nowadays
handicapping the next creditpolicy move by the Federal Reserve. The Fed isn't
making any moves. For nigh onto a year now, since last June 29, the U. S.
central bank's target interest rate on overnight bank loans has sat at 5.25
percent. Another " no change" is an oddson bet when Fed policymakers meet next,
on June 28. If this steadyasyougo spell has been tough on traders, it has gone
down just fi ne with buyandhold investors in the stock market and stock mutual
funds.

The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 23 percent, including dividends, from
June 29, 2006, through June 1 , and the Nasdaq composite index followed right on
its heels with a 21 percent gain. Before they hit the pause button last summer,
Fed policymakers had raised their target rate on socalled federal funds at 17
consecutive meetings spanning two years. Everybody got used to seeing shortterm
interest rates in motion. So a year without any change may feel unusual. But a
look at recent history attests otherwise. There have been no fewer than four
previous stretches of equal or greater length in the past 15 years. It's surely
no coincidence that all four, like the most recent one, brought good times to
the stock market. From June 25, 2003, through June 30, 2004, the federal funds
target rate held at a rockbottom 1 percent. During that period the S& P 500
returned 19 percent and the Nasdaq jumped 28 percent. In an 18month stretch from
March 1997 through September 1998, the two indexes rolled up gains of between 35
percent and 40 percent while the Fed's target rate stayed at 5.5 percent. From
January 1996 to March 1997, with Fed funds at 5.25 percent, the S& P 500 rose 27
percent and the Nasdaq 18 percent. And from September 1992 to February 1994,
with the target rate at 3 percent, the S& P index gained 17 percent and the
Nasdaq 36 percent. These numbers, while not exactly surprising, suggest a bit of
revision may be in order in the traditional way of thinking about interest rates
and the stock market. Investors raised on the markets of the 1970s and 1980s
learned that declining rates were good for stocks, and rising rates were bad.
Well, on the evidence of recent experience, steady rates may be best of all. At
least where rates set by the central bank are concerned, that makes plenty of
intuitive sense. No change from the Fed implies an absence of pressing problems
that demand policy action in either direction - whether infl ation that calls
for higher rates, or sluggish growth that mandates lower rates. The latest
reports from the U. S. economy paint just such a pleasant picture now. The
unemployment rate stood at 4.5 percent in May as payrolls increased faster than
economists had expected. At the same time, the measure of infl ation most
closely monitored by the Fed showed a yearoveryear gain of 2 percent. Though
there is always room for improvement in matters of economics and monetary
policy, that's about as good as it gets. Investing is a global game in the 21st
century, and other central banks around the world have been more active than the
Fed of late. The European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of
England all have taken steps to push rates higher since the start of this year.
Those moves have come in a setting of economic strength outside the U. S. while
the American economy has been slowing - circumstances that have played nicely
into the Fed's hands. Without strong growth in other parts of the world, it's
quite possible the Fed would have felt obliged to lower rates to counter the
effects of a slump in housing and mortgage fi nance. " Economic activity in the
rest of the world continued to advance briskly," Fed policymakers said in the
minutes of their May 9 meeting. " Participants noted that strong foreign
expansion should help to underpin demand for U. S. exports." A lot has gone
right for the Fed lately. Among its other considerable successes, it has
arranged a set of circumstances for investors to convert " unchanged" into a
big, healthy return on their money. CHET CURRIER IS A BLOOMBERG NEWS COLUMNIST.
More on city pensions As a member of St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay's special task
force on pensions, I read with great interest David Nicklaus' May 30 column on
pensions. Mr. Nicklaus was reporting on the state of the three pension systems
that cover city employees and the recommendations of the special task force
appointed by Mayor Slay to study the issues and make recommendations. Mr.
Nicklaus told of a gap in funding for the three systems, and a Missouri Supreme
Court ruling handed down in March, mandating the full funding of the police and
fi re pension systems. He concludes that, while the city can borrow to cover the
court's ruling, the city will have to live within its means insofar as getting
pension costs under control. Jeff Rainford, chief of staff for Mayor Slay, was
quoted as saying that tax increases were a possibility and benefi t cuts would
be needed to close a longterm gap in pension funding, and must be on the table.
Mr. Nicklaus gave half a history lesson when he said that, for most of the
1990s, market gains allowed the city a contribution holiday. That contribution
holiday for the police pension system actually extended for a full 11 years,
unheard of in pension history. At the same time, three administrations were
urged to place the unexpended funds returned from the Police Department budget
into a rainy day fund; none heeded the advice. Enter the mayor's task force. The
mission statement was to " develop a comprehensive plan that provides benefi t
equity and costeffectiveness in achieving the goal of recruitment and retention
of qualifi ed longterm employees." Charged with brainstorming ways to help
decrease future shortfalls in funding, members of the task force suggested both
benefi t reductions for new employees and ways to increase current city revenue.
Suggestions called for increasing revenues through reducing tax increment fi
nancing projects, eliminating free garbage and lawn waste pickups, and
increasing rates for water service, which is a bargain in the city. The former
was billed as the only way to increase corporate interest in locating or
remaining in the city, while the latter two were summarily taken off the table
because of their status as " political sacred cows." The good news is that the "
funding crisis" is not all gloom and doom. While not fully funded, an accurate
analogy is that the outstanding liabilities are amortized over a 30year period,
much the same as for the average homeowner. Payments are manageable. The bad
news comes in the last two paragraphs of the article. The reason things are in
such dire straits is that the city needs, but does not have, local control of
both the Police Department and, by extension, the police pension system. Mr.
Nicklaus correctly points out that it will be a " delicate political maneuver"
to persuade the state Legislature to cede responsibility for the fi scal
integrity of the pension systems to an administration that funds with IOUs while
building stadiums and giving tax breaks to rich corporations. Stephen G. Olish
Executive director Police Retirement System of St. Louis By Loren Steffy I
bought my fi rst stocks when I was 11. I liked jets, so I picked Boeing,
Lockheed and Northrop. It was part of a class exercise. I didn't invest real
money, but I followed the stocks for several months as if I owned them. Each day
I'd open the newspaper and track their performance in the stock tables. As part
of our lesson, my class visited the A. G. Edwards offi ce in Bryan, Texas. The
branch manager took time away from his day to explain how the market worked. The
offi ce was a somber place. Men in suits sat stoically in rows of chairs at the
center of the room watching prices scroll by on a ticker mounted against one
wall. Across the country, in towns like Bryan, A. G. Edwards served as a fi
nancial gathering point. The fi rm provided fi nancial services to Middle
America at a time when few others did. Edwards didn't have its own mutual funds
or other products. Its brokers weren't pushing things its clients didn't need or
trying to drive commissions by getting them to trade more. My teacher took us to
that offi ce in Bryan because she was a customer. She liked them, she told me
years later, because she never felt pressured to buy anything, even though she
traded infrequently. Edwards, founded by an assistant treasury secretary
appointed by Abraham Lincoln, built its reputation on that kind of service. Yet
in the end, that's what made its existence as fragile as the rare Chinese
porcelain collection that lined the executive suite of former Chairman Ben
Edwards III. Last week, Wachovia said it would buy Edwards for $ 6.8 billion.
The only surprise is that it didn't happen a decade ago. Regional brokerages
have gone the way of the stock tickers that once adorned their offi ces. Firms
like Dain Rauscher; Eppler, Guerin & Turner; Morgan Keegan; and J. C. Bradford
have been subsumed by everlarger fi nancial supermarkets. Edward Jones, A. G.
Edwards' crosstown rival , continues to bring fi nancial advice to smalltown
America. In Florida, Raymond James remains independent, though after the Edwards
announcement last week, its shares jumped almost 9 percent amid speculation it
would be the next takeover target. Smaller fi rms are struggling because
commissions are falling. That's a trend that began in the 1970s, when the
Securities and Exchange Commission deregulated them, but it was accelerated by
the advent of the Internet and the rise of discounters. Edwards' approach
produced better service for its clients. Because it didn't sell its own
products, for example, its equity research avoided the taint of Wall Street
scandal. Its analysts were among the fi rst to call the tech bust of 2001. About
that time, I asked Ben Edwards, who'd just retired, how the fi rm could survive
in a world where people could trade their own accounts on the Internet for less
money. " The two most powerful forces on investment decisions are greed and
fear," he said. " Those are both emotions. They act on you, they act on me, they
act on everybody I know. If we bring nothing else to the party, we bring
objectivity." In the end, though, that wasn't enough. After 120 years, Edwards
will become part of a bank with a name that sounds like a watch. Shortly after
Robert Bagby became the fi rst nonEdwards family member to run the fi rm in
March 2001, I asked him where he saw it going over the next decade. " I see us a
lot larger," he said. " And I see us being a retail organization, and that I
don't see changing." But it did. In commenting on the Wachovia deal, Bagby's
tone was resigned. The company, he said during a conference call last week,
needed to be bigger and offer more products to compete in a global marketplace.
" We could not provide that at A. G. Edwards," he said. " We didn't have the
capital base. The history of the brokerage business, like most other industries,
is littered with the names of fi rms whose markets passed them by, who couldn't
keep up with the growth and faded into history. Edwards is no different. It's
one more passing, like stock tables in the newspaper and a scrolling ticker on
the wall of a smalltown offi ce where investors gather to monitor the market.
Edwards was a fi rm that prided itself on knowing what its customers wanted. Yet
it remained tied to a different era, to a network of offi ces in towns like
Bryan, Texas, where locals came to watch the ticker and sixthgraders could get a
tutorial in reading the stock pages. In the end, what its customers wanted was
something it could never be. LOREN STEFFY IS BUSINESS COLUMNIST FOR THE HOUSTON
CHRONICLE. YOUR VIEWS St. Louisbased A. G. Edwards was sold to Wachovia for $
6.8 billion in cash and stock to form the second largest American stock
brokerage. Robert Cohen | PostDispatch A. G. Edwards is a brokerage of a
different era Fed's ' unchanged' rates mean steady returns for investors U. S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke Getty Images The calm spell has been tough
on traders, but it is just fi ne with buyandhold investors. M 1 | SUNDAY | JUNE
10, 2007 | ST. LOUIS POSTDISPATCH | STLTODAY. COM | E5 SEND US A LETTER Write:
Letters to the Business editor, St. Louis PostDispatch, 900 North Tucker
Boulevard St. Louis, Mo. 63101 Email: ajackson@ postdispatch. com Fax:
3143403060 Please include a daytime telephone number for verifi cation. Letters
are subject to editing. E05PD1FN0610_ 16473 5 E05PD1FN0610_ 16473 5 6/ 8/ 2007
17: 05: 13 6/ 8/ 2007 17: 05: 13

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Charges reveal immigration dilemma for gay couples

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1113 words


Lawyer's Choices: o Lose his partner. o Leave the country to be with partner. o
Commit a federal crime.

---

For Eric Affholter, the St. Louis public defender, it was an almost impossible
decision: lose the man he loves, leave the country to be with him or commit a
federal crime.

Affholter picked the crime.

"It was an agonizing decision from a personal perspective, from a legal
perspective," he said in an interview.

But he and Pedro Cerna-Rojas did what they thought best, Affholter said. They
asked a good friend - who was an assistant public defender in Affholter's office
- to marry Cerna-Rojas to save him from being forced home to Peru for want of a
visa.

"I just wanted to be able to spend the rest of my life with the person I fell in
love with - in this country," Affholter said in an interview Friday..

Cerna-Rojas married Collette Lewis in December 2004 in Las Vegas. Affholter and
Lewis' boyfriend, Assistant Circuit Attorney Timothy J. O'Leary, were witnesses.

The four then returned to St. Louis and quietly lived with their respective
partners - until the news of the arrangement somehow leaked out last month and
prompted a federal investigation.

Affholter, Lewis and O'Leary all resigned from their public jobs. Affholter, 40,
and Cerna-Rojas, 31, were indicted June 1 for marriage fraud. Officials say that
Cerna-Rojas has returned to Peru.

Affholter won't talk about where his partner is, or whether they are in contact.

While the decision to commit a crime was agonizing, Affholter said, "It's just
as agonizing to be separated."

Lewis has declined to comment. O'Leary could not be reached.

Affholter said he agreed to talk, with his lawyers present, to draw attention to
pending legislation. The Uniting American Families Act, reintroduced in Congress
this year, would allow an American to sponsor a same-sex "permanent partner" for
legal residency.

"Had that been permitted, that is the path that Eric and Pedro would have
pursued," said one of Affholter's lawyers, Adam Fein.

'desperate measures'

A marriage between a man and a woman is recognized for immigration purposes, but
civil unions and gay marriages -even where they are allowed - do not qualify
under the Defense of Marriage Act, said Adam Francoeur, policy coordinator of
Immigration Equality.

Francoeur said his group, which works to end immigration discrimination against
"lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and HIV-positive people," opposes sham
marriages for immigration purposes.

"But it does occur because of the desperation that many couples face," he said.

Affholter and Fein said that they have been in touch with advocacy groups,
including the American Civil Liberties Union and Immigration Equality. But the
criminal charges have kept some potential supporters at arm's length.

"I think there's going to be some hesitancy to embrace this as an example," said
Tony Rothert, legal director of the ACLU of Eastern Missouri. "I wish they'd
come forward as an example before" resorting to the marriage.

He said he understands their action as "an example of the desperate measures
that normally law-abiding people are forced to go to, to be with the person they
love."

By contrast, Rothert said, heterosexual couples can petition for permanent
residency simply by saying they are going to get married.

But Peter LaBarbera, president of the Illinois-based Americans for Truth, said
he does not believe that most Americans want to make it easier for homosexuals
to be in the country.

"We should give priority for ... normally married couples to get into this
country," he said.

LaBarbera's group describes itself as a "national organization devoted
exclusively to exposing and countering the homosexual activist agenda."

U.S. Attorney Catherine Hanaway, whose office is prosecuting the case, said the
social issue is beyond her role: "We can't be advocates for changes in the law.
Our job is to enforce the law."

Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services office in St. Louis, declined to comment.

limited options

Affholter met Cerna-Rojas through friends at a now-defunct restaurant in 2003.
Cerna-Rojas is from a small town in Peru, Affholter said, and came here for a
postgraduate education with hopes to stay.

Their romance blossomed that summer, around the time Affholter became district
defender, in charge of providing criminal defense to the poor. They moved in
together in St. Louis

Affholter said he was open about it, introducing Cerna-Rojas as his partner in
social situations.

But Cerna-Rojas couldn't get a work visa.

Affholter said he cannot express "just how incredibly difficult it was to sit
down and talk about the options."

To leave, he said, meant, "I would have had to give up my family, my livelihood
... friendships, home. Everything I did to build a life."

Instead, they turned to close friends, Lewis and O'Leary, to help arrange a
marriage, with Lewis as the bride.

Affholter acknowledged that they discussed the potential legal consequences.

"It was illegal. And as a lawyer, I should have made a decision to uphold the
law," Affholter said.

"I'm enormously thankful that neither Collette or Tim have been charged. They
are both outstanding lawyers. And they have already suffered enormously for what
was an incredible act of friendship," he said.

Cerna-Rojas' paternal grandfather was a U.S. citizen, Affholter said. He speaks
of Cerna-Rojas in the past tense, as in he "was'" a piano player and painter.

Affholter said he will plead guilty. Under federal sentencing guidelines, he
could face up to 12 months in prison.

After that? Affholter says he does not know.

"I'm still reeling," he explained.

He is working for a property management company in Illinois that employed him
before he became district defender.

Cerna-Rojas could be barred from the country for a decade or more, Fein said.

Peru seems an unlikely destination for the couple.

"I don't believe that that is a country where people can live openly and safely
as a gay couple," Affholter said. He said the concern played into the decision
to set up the marriage.

Sponsors of the Uniting American Families Act say that 16 countries allow their
citizens to sponsor same-sex partners.

Asked about the prospects of passage this year, Francoeur spoke of "building a
long-term strategy" and added: "It's at the intersection of two very contentious
issues - immigration and gay rights.

Rothert called it an uphill battle.

If anything good comes out of the situation, Rothert said, the friends, families
and co-workers of those involved "have been touched by inequality and recognize
the unfair position that they were placed in simply because of their sexual
orientation.

"I think that's what changes people's minds."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Pedro Cerna-Rojas (left), a native of Peru, and Eric Affholter, a
former St. Louis public defender, were indicted on marriage fraud charges.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

WASHINGTON DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 522 words


GOP fundraiser falls short of last year

President George W. Bush's yearly fundraising dinner for Republican
congressional candidates on Wednesday generated $15.4 million - slightly more
than half as much as the $27 million the event brought in last year. Bush raised
$23 million at the same dinners in 2005 and 2004.

The take at this year's annual gala benefiting the national Republican Party
also took in much less than usual.

Bush helped raise $10.5 million at the event last month, compared with $17
million last year, $15 million the year before and a record $38.5 million in
2004, when he was running for re-election.

Senators craft changes to immigration bill

Key Republican and Democratic senators are working toward a deal to resurrect
their stalled immigration compromise by requiring that about $4 billion be spent
on border security and workplace enforcement.

The mandatory security funding is part of a plan to attract more Republican
support for the measure, which grants legal status to millions of unlawful
immigrants.

In private meetings Wednesday, the bipartisan group that crafted the compromise
was hammering out a plan to allow votes on a limited set of Republican- and
Democratic-sought changes in exchange for a commitment from GOP holdouts that
they will back moving ahead with the bill.

Renewable fuel rule is up for vote today

Senate Democrats proposed a requirement Wednesday that 15 percent of the
nation's electricity be produced by wind, biomass and other renewable energy
sources.

Democrats want to include the renewable fuel requirements on a broader energy
bill before the Senate, but they faced strong opposition from senators who
worried that such a national mandate would raise electricity costs in some
states. A vote on the issue was expected today.

A House committee, meanwhile, voted to roll back some of the provisions Congress
passed two years ago to streamline permitting for oil and gas development on
federal land.

The energy package approved 26-22 by the House Resources Committee also would
stiffen penalties for oil companies that shortchange the government on oil and
gas royalties and would require that energy companies work more closely with
ranchers and other surface landowners, a sensitive issue in the West.

Political veteran named as Bush senior aide

President George W. Bush on Wednesday named a Washington insider to one of the
most important jobs among his senior aides, choosing Edward W. Gillespie, a
lobbyist and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, as his new
White House counselor.

Under Bush, that job previously was held by Karen Hughes and then Dan Bartlett -
two Texans who had no White House experience but had ties to Bush that date back
to his earliest days as a gubernatorial candidate.

In picking Gillespie, the president abandoned that model, selecting a political
veteran who has strong relationships with congressional Republicans. Bush met
Gillespie, a New Jersey native, in 1999.

In announcing his decision in the Oval Office, Bush praised his new senior
adviser as "a good strategic thinker" and said: "He is a seasoned hand who has
got excellent judgment."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 16, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hispanics hear Bush plea to lobby for immigration bill

BYLINE: Cox News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush urged Hispanics on Friday to lobby hard for a major
immigration bill, a day after it was revived in the Senate.

"Each day our nation fails to act, the problem only grows worse," he said at the
annual National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast. "I will continue to work closely with
members of both parties, to get past our differences, and pass a bill I can sign
this year."

Bush's comments came after Senate leaders announced on Thursday a deal that
would allow the legislation to come back to the Senate floor as early as next
week.

Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said Friday that he "insisted on a process
to prevent endless debate and get the bill through the Senate," but he added
that he hoped congressional Republicans would not stall the legislation.

Reid also endorsed an amendment that would provide more than $4 billion for
immediate security improvements as part of the immigration package. Bush backed
the amendment Thursday, hoping to assuage conservatives who are skeptical of the
overall bill.

The legislation would give illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship, create a
large guest worker program and increase border security and workplace
enforcement. Many conservatives oppose it, saying that it amounts to amnesty for
lawbreakers.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

A WHOLE NEW WORLD Newcomers often face challenges in adapting to U.S. culture.

BYLINE: By Steven Baguma St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 850 words


Although the United States is a nation of immigrants, for those who are new to
the country, starting a business comes with high hurdles.

The outstanding hardships include language barriers, culture issues, and
adaptation to e-commerce. New immigrants also strive to grasp policies of
taxation, insurance and banking.

According to the International Institute of St. Louis, doing business in the
immigrants' home countries is quite different from the way business is done in
the U.S. And St. Louis, where immigrants make up about 5 percent of the
population, is no different.

The institute helps immigrants understand the business system here. It also
helps obtain loans and offers training.

"We help them register their businesses and acquire various licenses," said
Elvir Kolenovic, senior business consultant at the institute.

Minxue Hu, the business development officer with Royal Banks of Missouri, said
American culture is diverse and confusing, as many immigrants have no idea about
things like observance of public holidays.

And then there's the banking and credit system, which also is confusing to most
immigrants.

According to Abshir Hussein, a native of Somalia and the owner of the African
Grocery Store on South Grand Boulevard, people in his home country avoid
borrowing money from banks because of higher interest rates.

"After reaching here we are forced by the realities to embrace banking as we
hardly have relatives and friends," he said.

Experts say that conducting research about the location of a business and the
culture of the area is critical for the success of any business.

Unfortunately, many immigrants avoid such research, said Benjamin Ola. Akande,
dean of business and technology at Webster University.

"There has been a higher failure rate of immigrant businesses, mainly because
people do not carry out adequate prior research about St. Louis and the culture
of its people," he said.

Immigrants who want to be successful in business in St. Louis ought first to
take their time and get to know more about it, because it demands a lot of
innovation and creativity, Akande said.

Hussein said that because of culture, race and language issues, he decided to
focus on immigrants from Africa as his main clients, thereby losing out on
Americans' and other immigrants' dollars.

"The name of my store says it all," he said.

Nonetheless, many immigrants have managed to sail through the drawbacks to
starting a business.

Gul Totakhil, a 35-year-old native of Afghanistan, owns two local Subway
restaurants and an international grocery store, Afghan Market, on South Grand.

Totakhil came to the St. Louis in 1991, then attended St. Louis Community
College and St. Louis University. After spending a year at SLU, Totakhil was
convinced that his career lay in business, rather than his area of study,
radiology.

"I decided to become my own boss," he said.

Today, his conviction is paying dividends.

With his own capital and a $30,000 loan from the Small Business Administration,
he bought his first Subway in Northwoods in 1997. In 2003, he secured a bank
loan and bought his second Subway, in Crestwood, for $240,000.

During the same year he opened Afghan Market, which sells products ranging from
African, Asian, Indian and European foodstuffs to international phone cards,
clothes and kitchenware.

The store serves around 200 customers a day, a majority of whom are immigrants
from Africa and the Arab world.

The store also acts as agent to Western Union, where customers send money to and
receive it from their families abroad.

Despite his success, Totakhil said doing business in the United States is
complicated.

"Here, one has a lot of bills to pay and a majority of people here use credit
cards, unlike in Afghanistan where cash is used," he said.

Although these may not be major issues for Americans, for immigrants it takes a
large amount of time and effort to acquaint themselves with the way business is
done in the U.S.

Like Totakhil, Yohannes Mengesha, a 45-year-old immigrant from Ethiopia, didn't
start on an entrepreneurial path. But he did spend years understanding the
culture before starting his business.

Mengesha moved to St. Louis in 1980 after securing a scholarship from St. Louis
University to pursue a degree in biology and chemistry. Now, 27 years later,
Mengesha is not a physician, the profession he had craved.

Mengesha, now a U.S. citizen, owns and runs the "reasonably profitable" Bar
Italia Ristorante & Cafe in the Central West End.

He got involved in the restaurant business out of necessity: He needed a
part-time job to pay for college expenses. Mengesha took a job at a Clayton
restaurant as a waiter .

As time went by, he developed a passion for the job he was doing. After
graduating in 1984, he because a waiter and manager at the restaurant he owns
today.

Mengesha singled out language and communication, and to some extent the effort
to understand cultural norms that are quite different, as the major challenges
to immigrant businesses owners.

"What people see in movies is never going to prepare them for all the nuances of
American life and its subcultures," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Afghan Mohamad Salam Safi greets friend and customer Boris Yardanidze,
a Turk from Russia, at the Afghan Market, 3736 South Grand Boulevard. Before
Safi came to St. Louis he lived and prospered in Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and
Russia and his ability to speak Dari, Urdu, Pashtun, Russian, English and German
is one of the  reasons for his success.  Kevin Manning | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Africans shift racial landscape Stereotypes mar interaction among
African-Americans, immigrants.

BYLINE: By David Crary The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


They range from surgeons and scholars to illiterate refugees from some of the
world's worst hellholes - a dizzyingly varied stream of African immigrants to
the United States. More than 1 million strong and growing, they are enlivening
America's cities and altering how the nation confronts its racial identity.

Some nurture dreams of returning to Africa for good one day. But many are
casting their lot permanently in America, trying to assimilate even as they and
their children struggle to learn where they fit in a country where black-white
relations are a perpetual work-in-progress.

"To white people, we are all black," said Wanjiru Kamau, a Kenyan-born community
activist in Washington. "But as soon as you open your mouth to some
African-Americans, they look at you and wonder why you are even here.

"Except for the skin, which is just a façade, there is very little in common
between Africans and African-Americans. We need to sit down and listen to each
other's story."

The 2000 census recorded 881,300 U.S. residents who were born in Africa. By
2005, the number had reached 1.25 million, according to Brookings Institution
researcher Jill Wilson.

Since 1990, the African population has more than tripled in places as far-flung
as Atlanta, Seattle and Minneapolis, where Africans now constitute more than 15
percent of the black population. The biggest magnets are New York City and
greater Washington, including its Maryland and Virginia suburbs; Wilson
estimates that the African-born population in each area has soared past 130,000.

As director of the African Immigrant and Refugee Foundation, Kamau deals with
some of the most desperate newcomers - dispossessed refugees from Somalia,
Sudan, Liberia, Sierra Leone and other war-ravaged countries. They have been
arriving at a pace of roughly 20,000 a year.

"I cry a lot when I see the people being settled here," Kamau said. "Some are
very frustrated, because the culture is so different from what they know."

The flip side of the refugee influx is a wave of sophisticated professionals who
also are making their way to the United States. Census data from 2000 show 43
percent of Africans in the U.S. have college degrees, higher than the adult
population as a whole. Compared with African-Americans, the immigrants' average
household income is higher and their jobless rate lower.

They include hardworking couples such as Tigist Mengesha and her husband, Girum
- Ethiopians trying to build their own version of the American dream in the
mostly black suburb of Suitland, Md.

Girum, 36, was granted asylum in the U.S. in 2002 because of political tension
in Ethiopia, where he was a bank manager.

Tigist joined him two years later, bringing their sons Biniyam and Fitsum, now 7
and 6.

In Washington, Girum had to resume his banking career at the bottom, as a
teller, but has worked his way up to assistant manager and is pursuing a
master's degree at a business college.

Tigist is a family counselor at a Head Start center, advising many Ethiopians as
well as a few African-American parents.

Tigist said her relations with African-Americans have mostly been amicable,
though on occasion she has sensed ill will. "Some people, they treat you as if
you don't know anything," she said, "as if you're from the jungle."

Jacqueline Copeland-Carson, an African-American scholar with the Hubert H.
Humphrey School of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota, is optimistic
that African immigrants and African-Americans will outgrow any strains, which
she blames partly on stereotypes.

"Some Africans view African-Americans as violent, lazy, intellectually inferior
- U.S. blacks are taught that the Africans are less civilized, not as capable,"
she said.

"As people get to know each other in churches and mosques and community
associations, they're beginning to realize they've been taught lies about each
other."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Ghana-born Kukuwa Nuamah, 49, of Vienna, Va., teaches her Kukuwa dance
workout class in Washington last month. In 2005, there were 1.25 million U.S.
residents who were born in Africa, according to Brookings Institution.  The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Name checks on immigrants pile up FBI backlog, which has prompted lawsuits and
security concerns, has doubled since 2005.

BYLINE: By Spencer S. Hsu and N.C. Aizenman Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 417 words


The backlog of legal U.S. immigrants whose applications for naturalization and
other benefits await FBI name checks has doubled to 329,160 since 2005.

The delays have prompted a flood of lawsuits in federal courts, bureaucratic
finger-pointing in Washington and harsh scrutiny by 2008 presidential
candidates.

In his latest annual report to Congress last week, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services ombudsman Prakash Khatri called the backlog of FBI name
checks "unacceptable from the standpoint of national security and immigration
benefits processing."

Calling the delays the "most pervasive problem" in processing, Khatri concluded
that they "may increase the risk to national security by prolonging the time a
potential criminal or terrorist remains in the country." He concluded that the
agency should end or sharply narrow its use of the name checks.

Donald Kerr, 60, the Jamaican-born lead singer of Bob Marley's reggae group "The
Wailers," applied for U.S. citizenship more than three years ago after marrying
a U.S. citizen. A British citizen who goes by the stage name Junior Marvin, he
lives in Alexandria, Va.

"I'm not trying to put Homeland Security down. I mean they have to do what they
have to do," he said, sitting in his basement amid a mass of guitars, amplifiers
and sound-mixing equipment. "But it does seem like a long time to check up on a
musician."

The backlog started growing after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when
investigators determined that the failure to properly process immigration
applications contributed to the hijackers' ability to enter and stay in the
country. U.S. authorities responded by broadly expanding background checks.

At the end of 2002, immigration authorities resubmitted 2.7 million names of
applicants to the FBI for additional scrutiny. More than five years later, the
FBI is only now emerging from that huge load, with about 5,800 names left to be
rechecked.

FBI officials say a heavy workload is not the only problem. They also blame
inadequate staffing and technology, as well as a decentralized, paper-based
immigration review process.

"No one is happy with the status quo," said Citizenship and Immigration Services
Director Jonathan "Jock" Scharfen.

Michael Cannon, head of the FBI's National Name Check Division, said the
division was trying to automate the problem as much as possible to cut the
delays.

The FBI has reported that less than 1 percent of 1.5 million names it checks are
ultimately tied to potentially damaging information.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

METRO DIGEST NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 456 words


MISSOURI

St. Louis

35 Bosnians to become citizens today

Thirty-five more immigrants from Bosnia who filed suit to obtain citizenship are
to become Americans in a ceremony at 10 a.m. today at Harris-Stowe State
University.

In a lawsuit filed in federal court in March, the 35 claimed their bids for
citizenship were delayed because of disabilities preventing them from meeting
government requirements, such as proficiency in English. They said they were
disabled by injury or emotional trauma during the war in Bosnia.

In December, 50 Bosnian immigrants were sworn in after they filed a similar
suit.

Chester Moyer, agent in charge of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
office here, said the office approved citizenship for the immigrants after
reviewing additional medical and legal information in each case.

Insect spray giveaway in park today

The Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services and the St. Louis Health
Department will begin distributing 1,000 containers of insect repellent today in
Forest Park.

Residents can get the repellent and education on its use at no charge after a
press conference at 10:30 a.m. at Pagoda Circle in front of the Muny. If it
rains, the press conference and giveaway will be at the Jewel Box.

Already this year, mosquitoes infected with West Nile virus have been found in
St. Louis County, and cases of the tick-borne diseases ehrlichiosis and Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever have sickened more than twice as many people this year as
the average for the past five years.

A total of 3,000 containers statewide are being provided by the DEET Education
Program.

Jefferson City

Blunt backs protections for midwives

Gov. Matt Blunt said Thursday that he backs new legal protections for midwives.
Blunt earlier signed a bill expanding private health insurance options and
allowing certified midwives to work in Missouri.

In a news release, Blunt had touted only the insurance provisions, and his
office would not say if he supported the midwives provision.

But when asked about the issue, Blunt said he also backed the midwives measure.

Illinois

Madison County

Residents urged to conserve water

COLLINSVILLE - Officials are urging residents to conserve water until they can
have a new well dug to replace one of its six. During a recent cleaning, a large
hole was found in a pipe that keeps sand, rock and soil out of the water, said
Bob Frank, water department director. The well, built in 1952, had to be taken
out of service.

The city can supply enough water with four clean wells, but the five remaining
wells haven't been cleaned, aren't as efficient as usual and can't be cleaned
until the new well is dug.

Officials expect the new well to be ready by July 1, and Maryville has offered
to help till then.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

METRO DIGEST NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 453 words


MISSOURI

St. Louis

35 Bosnians to become citizens today

Thirty-five more immigrants from Bosnia who filed suit to obtain citizenship are
to become Americans in a ceremony at 10 a.m. today at Harris-Stowe State
University.

In a lawsuit filed in federal court in March, the 35 claimed their bids for
citizenship were delayed because of disabilities preventing them from meeting
government requirements, such as proficiency in English. They said they were
disabled by injury or emotional trauma during the war in Bosnia.

In December, 50 Bosnian immigrants were sworn in after they filed a similar
suit.

Chester Moyer, agent in charge of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
office here, said the office approved citizenship for the immigrants after
reviewing additional medical and legal information in each case.

Insect spray giveaway in park today

The Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services and the St. Louis Health
Department will begin distributing 1,000 containers of insect repellent today in
Forest Park.

Residents can get the repellent and education on its use at no charge after a
news conference at 10:30 a.m. at Pagoda Circle in front of the Muny. If it
rains, the news conference and giveaway will be at the Jewel Box.

Already this year, mosquitoes infected with West Nile virus have been found in
St. Louis County, and cases of the tick-borne diseases ehrlichiosis and Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever have sickened more than twice as many people this year as
the average for the past five years.

A total of 3,000 containers statewide are being provided by the DEET Education
Program.

St. Louis County

Council votes to hire 7

Kirkwood - Following voter approval of a 34-cent property tax increase on June
5, the Kirkwood City Council voted Thursday night to hire four police officers
and three firefighters.

The cost will be about $385,000 a year. The council already had said it will
levy only part of the 34-cent increase authorized to provide $2 million during
the first year, 2008. The entire increase was dedicated to operating needs.

Illinois

Madison County

Residents urged to conserve water

COLLINSVILLE - Officials are urging residents to conserve water until they can
have a new well dug to replace one of its six. During a recent cleaning, a large
hole was found in a pipe that keeps sand, rock and soil out of the water, said
Bob Frank, water department director. The well, built in 1952, had to be taken
out of service.

The city can supply enough water with four clean wells, but the five remaining
wells haven't been cleaned, aren't as efficient as usual and can't be cleaned
until the new well is dug.

Officials expect the new well to be ready by July 1, and Maryville has offered
to help till then.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Crime linked to lack of immigrants Waves of newcomers invigorate desperately
poor areas, experts say.

BYLINE: By Maryclaire Dale THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


Baltimore, Philadelphia and other cities in a bloodstained corridor along the
East Coast are seeing a surge in killings, and one explanation offered by
criminal-justice experts is this: not enough new immigrants.

The theory holds that waves of hardworking, ambitious immigrants reinvigorate
desperately poor black and Hispanic neighborhoods and help keep crime down. It
is a theory that runs counter to the widely held notion that immigrants are a
source of crime and disorder.

"New York, Los Angeles, they're seeing massive immigration - the transformation,
really, of their cities from populations around the world," said Harvard
sociologist Robert J. Sampson. "These are people selecting to go into a country
to get ahead, so they're likely to be working hard and stay out of trouble."

But it is only a partial explanation for the bloodshed over the past few years
in a corridor that also includes Newark, N.J., and Boston, but not New York
City.

Homicide detectives, criminal justice experts and community activists point to a
confluence of other potential factors. Among them: a failure to adopt some of
the innovative practices that have reduced violence in bigger cities; the
availability of powerful guns; and a shift in emphasis toward preventing
terrorism instead of ordinary street crime.

Philadelphia is losing one resident a day to violence, recording 196 homicides
through the third week of June. That is slightly ahead of the total at this
point in 2006, a year that ended with 406 homicides, the most in almost a
decade.

In Newark, the homicide toll has soared 50 percent in four years, to 106 in 2006
from 68 in 2002. Baltimore had 140 slayings as of June 10, up from 122 the same
time last year. Boston had 75 homicides in 2005, a 10-year high, and 75 in 2006.
So far this year, there have been at least 30 slayings.

Anti-violence efforts successfully used in other cities include limiting gun
purchases, suing rogue dealers and deploying officers more strategically, based
on crime data analysis.

IMMIGRAnt effect

University of Pennsylvania criminologist Lawrence W. Sherman is a prime exponent
of the theory that immigration exerts a moderating effect on crime among poor
black men.

The percentage of foreign-born residents is 11 percent in Philadelphia, compared
with 22 percent in Chicago, 37 percent in New York and 40 percent in Los
Angeles, according to 2005 census figures.

But there are other factors. In New York, city leaders have pushed through
strict gun-control laws while attacking social ills such as loitering. New
York's homicide toll has fallen to one-fourth its 1990 high of 2,245 and could
slip below 500 this year.

Just across the Hudson River, in Newark, the poverty and employment picture
remains grim. Unemployment hit 18 percent in 2004, and 27 percent of families
live in poverty. New York's unemployment rate, by contrast, was 4.9 percent in
May.

Chicago, whose jobless rate was 4.7 percent in May, has seen its death toll drop
sharply from the first part of the decade, when more than 600 homicides were
recorded for three straight years. The city had 467 homicides in 2006, and this
year the numbers are running about even.

Similarly, Los Angeles, where unemployment stood at 4.7 percent last month,
recorded 481 homicides in 2006 - less than half the number seen in the early
1990s. By mid-June of this year, the city had 172 killings.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Violent east coast corridor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - An unidentified woman reacts outside a home in Newark, N.J., in which a
man and a woman were found dead, in this photo from October.  In Newark, the
homicide toll has risen by 50 percent in four years.  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Celebration of immigrant children is part fun and part politics

BYLINE: By Michele Munz ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS


Hispanic children sat around one of four large tables Sunday in a corner room of
downtown's City Museum. They spelled "U.S.A. Rocks" and colored pictures of
American flags, stars and hearts with wings.

One child was Beatriz Diaz, 10. Her parents came to this country illegally seven
years ago with hopes of giving her and her big sister a better life. Beatriz
wrote across the top of her paper: "I love America because of all the
opportunity." She drew pictures of herself in a series of squares with a story
line instilled by her mom and dad: "middle school, high school, college,
graduation, then good job, then good care."

Beatriz was taking part in "Immigrant Children's Day," organized by Missouri
Immigrant and Refugee Advocates, a coalition that advocates for the basic rights
of immigrants. The celebration came just three days after the U.S. Senate killed
a comprehensive immigration bill, leaving the girl's future less certain.

The celebration turned into more of a rally urging the crowd of families to
continue to push for legislation.

"Today we are kicking off our Fourth of July week by honoring the best of
American

values - strong families, strong community and the dream of a bright future for
our kids," said coalition member Bolivar Fraga. "It is a time to rejoice in the
diversity of our community but also to remember the difficult fight that is
still in front of us as we struggle urgently for comprehensive immigration
reform."

Keynote speaker Jesus Ituarte, a Mexican immigrant and local attorney,
acknowledged the uncertainty of future legislation. "What happens to the
children? The high school graduates who want to go to college?" he said. "Well,
we don't know yet."

He feared that states will now step in to make up for the federal government's
inaction, passing legislation to punish businesses and landlords for hiring and
renting to undocumented workers.

In Valley Park, aldermen passed an ordinance last summer penalizing landlords
and employers who rent to or hire illegal immigrants. The town is facing three
lawsuits over the ordinance. Ituarte said lawyers are waiting to see what comes
of a similar lawsuit in Pennsylvania.

"There's moments where we don't have a lot of hope for the near future," he
said. "We need to keep working and asking our legislators for reform."

A bipartisan group of senators and administration officials had crafted the
federal bill. It would have paved the way for millions of undocumented
immigrants to be in the nation legally. The bill also would have dramatically
increased the nation's guest worker program, provided tougher enforcement
against employers who hire illegal immigrants, and would have tightened border
security.

"So, the question is, who won?" Ituarte said. "We all lost. There are no
winners, no victory on any side."

After Ituarte's speech, organizers read a city of St. Louis proclamation calling
Sunday "Immigrant Children's Day" and "Sidime Mamady Mentor Day" in honor of a
Guinean musician and artisan who teaches tolerance and respect through work at
his St. Louis gallery.

Children waived American flags and got their faces painted with blue stars. They
listened to an African storyteller and learned traditional Mexican dances.
Parents walked along booths offering information about community resources.

Families also got to enjoy the rest of the City Museum, an opportunity to
explore the massive indoor playground and aquarium that most wouldn't have had
without the celebration.

Beatriz's father, Efrian Diaz, 31, and his wife, Cecilia, 29, walked their
children through the unique museum. Since coming to the U.S., they have had two
more children, ages 5 and eight months. Diaz is working installing swimming
pools.

His drivers license is about to expire, and under tighter restrictions, he won't
be able to get it renewed. He fears not being able to care for his family.

"The government," he said, "is confusing terrorists with immigrants, who only
come here to make life better for their children."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Allison Garcia, 11, of Spanish Lake, plays in the ball pit at the City
Museum on Sunday during the "Immigrant Children's Day" event. The celebration
was organized by Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates. Photos by Wayne
Crosslin | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - Robin Allen of St. Louis County listens to
speakers with her 19-month-old son, Jalen. The U.S.-born family and others at
Sunday's event were urged to push for national reform legislation in the wake of
a Senate bill's collapse. Photo by Wayne Crosslin | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The American question

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 500 words


Today is Independence Day, our annual celebration of all things American.
Fittingly, it arrives as the nation struggles with the very question of what it
means to be American.

We think of ourselves as defined by courage and liberty. But the focus of our
recent defining debate has been immigration - an issue inextricably linked with
the fear of what we do not know.

Over the course of history, the issue of immigration has brought out the best
and the worst in us. Benjamin Franklin worried in the 1750s that an influx of
what he regarded as intellectually inferior German immigrants "would soon so
outnumber us" that democratic government in the colonies would be undermined.

Two decades later, he signed the Declaration of Independence, which lists, among
other grievances with English rule, "obstructing the laws for naturalization of
foreigners" and refusal to "encourage their migrations" here.

During the 19th century, America opened its doors to, in the words of poet Emma
Lazarus, "your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of
your teeming shore." In stepped millions of poor Irish, Italians and Eastern
Europeans seeking factory work, freedom from want and the opportunity to better
themselves and their families.

Their alien presence seemed a grave threat. The poet Walt Whitman fretted that
the "vast crops of poor, desperate . . . miserably-waged populations" proved
that "our republican experiment, notwithstanding all its surface successes, is
at heart an unhealthy failure."

Today, the children and grandchildren of those forlorn refugees argue that the
threat posed by new generations of immigrants is too great. Freedom's lamp no
longer is to be raised by our golden door.

As it has done too often in the past, Congress last week surrendered to base
political impulses. Instead of leading on immigration, it allowed a bipartisan
compromise supported by President George W. Bush to collapse in an outpouring of
fear and finger-pointing.

This week, immigrants across the country are enacting very different scenes:
citizenship naturalization ceremonies, one of the more inspiring and affirming
traditions associated with Independence Day. Little noticed by the rest of us,
scores of new citizens are embracing their adopted country. They know, as we all
do, that America's promise is unfulfilled, but they dream, as we all should, of
helping to fulfill it.

And so we mark and celebrate today the 231st anniversary of the Declaration of
Independence. It outlines our nation's aspirations, not its limitations. Written
at a time of great peril and uncertainty, it was based on hope for the best we
might become, not fear of what might become of us.

The men who signed it knew that human beings and the governments they create are
necessarily imperfect. Yet they had the courage to commit a glorious dream to
paper. And they believed in the ability of people of good faith to work together
to make the dream a reality. More than two centuries later, we continue their
work.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  APPRECIATIONS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

British plan to tighten immigrant screening WATCH LIST Some of the 8 held in
terrorism case had been under suspicion. WARNING British cleric tells of cryptic
remark he heard in April.

BYLINE: By Paisley Dodds The Associated Press The New York Times contributed to
this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Wednesday that the government would expand
checks on immigrants taking skilled jobs and review recruiting for the National
Health Service, which employed all eight suspects in last week's foiled
terrorist plots.

A government security official said several of the suspects had been on a
British intelligence watch list.

One of the suspects, Bilal Abdulla, a doctor who is accused of riding a flaming
Jeep into Glasgow's international airport on Saturday, was described by
associates as a religious zealot and a lone wolf whose anger about political
developments in Iraq may have driven him to an act of terrorism.

A senior U.S. counterterrorism official said none of the eight suspects was on
any American lists of potential terrorist suspects.

It was unclear why the other suspects might have been put on the British list.
Abdulla reportedly had links to radical Islamic groups, and several others were
linked to extremist radicals listed on the database of MI5, the domestic
intelligence agency, The Times of London reported.

The suspects were arrested in a series of raids across Britain after two car
bombs failed to explode in London on Friday and two men tried to drive a vehicle
loaded with gas cylinders into the main terminal at Glasgow's airport on
Saturday.

Meanwhile, a senior British cleric working in Baghdad said Wednesday that he met
with a suspected al-Qaida leader in Jordan in April who warned of several
British attacks and issued a cryptic warning.

"It was so awful that, in my update for the day, I wrote that I have met with
the devil today," Canon Andrew White told British Broadcasting Corp. radio. "At
one moment in the meeting he said, 'Those who cure you are going to kill you.'"

White - who runs Baghdad's only Anglican parish and has been involved in several
hostage negotiations in Iraq - said he did not understand the threat's
significance at the time. Although he said he passed the general threat warning
on to Britain's Foreign Office, White said he did not mention the comment, which
could be interpreted as hinting at the involvement of doctors.

All eight of the suspects arrested after the car bombing attempts in London and
Glasgow were employed or previously employed by Britain's National Health
Service.

The suspects, whose names have not been confirmed by police, include two doctors
from India, and one doctor each from Iraq, Lebanon and Jordan. The Jordanian
doctor's wife - also arrested - is a medical assistant. Another doctor and a
medical student are thought to be from the Mideast.

Some of the suspects worked as colleagues at hospitals in England and Scotland.
Officials say the evidence points to the plot's being hatched after they met in
Britain, rather than overseas.

"We'll expand the background checks that have been done where there are highly
skilled migrant workers coming into this country," Brown told the House of
Commons.

"As a result of what has happened in the National Health Service, I have asked
Lord West, the new terrorism minister, to conduct an immediate review as to what
arrangements we must make in relation to recruitment," Brown said.

Investigators believe the main plotters have been rounded up, though others on
the periphery were still being hunted.

AL-QAIDA TAPE?

Al-Qaida's No. 2 leader has issued a videotape calling on Muslims to unite in
jihad, or holy war, and support the Islamist movement in Iraq, a U.S.-based
intelligence monitoring group said Wednesday.

Ayman al-Zawahri is seen in the 95-minute tape addressing topics from Iraq to
Saudi Arabia, the Palestinian territories and Egypt, said the U.S.-based SITE
intelligence group, which monitors al-Qaida messages.

The group said it had obtained the tape ahead of its release on the Internet by
militant websites. The authenticity of the transcript could not be immediately
verified.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/talk Have the terrorist cases in Britain made you nervous about
your travel plans?

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Offering sanctuary

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 347 words


The number of refugees worldwide increased by almost 2 million people last year.
A recent report by the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants put the total
at almost 14 million. That's the highest number since 2001. Fueling the increase
was the war in Iraq, from which 790,000 people fled last year alone.

The Iraqi exodus represents upheaval on a tragic scale as families face forced
separations, economic hardships and an irreparable disruption of their way of
life - and the numbers are expected to grow.

Earlier this year, United Nations officials and relief workers described the
Iraqi exodus as the largest movement of people in the Middle East since the war
that followed Israel's creation in 1948. As of the end of 2006, almost 1.7
million Iraqi refugees had fled the violence of their home country, according to
the report released last week. Another 1.7 million Iraqis have been displaced
within Iraq itself.

Last year, Syria took in about 449,000 Iraqi refugees, Jordan 250,000, Egypt
8,000. The United States, however, resettled a mere 202 Iraqis in 2006,
according to state department figures. Only 466 Iraqi refugees have been
admitted to this country since the war began in 2003.

Iraqis have faced bleak conditions in other Middle Eastern countries, according
to the Committee for Refugees report. Work permits are difficult to obtain in
Syria, where the unemployment rate for women tops 80 percent; for men, it's more
than 50 percent. Humanitarian groups have reported that some Iraqi women - and
girls as young as 12 - have been forced into prostitution to support their
families.

America's military intervention in Iraq has torn apart the social fabric of the
country, and we have a special obligation to offer refuge to Iraqis seeking
sanctuary here. Yet even Iraqis who have worked in Iraq for the United States as
translators and in other capacities - and who face violence and persecution at
home - are finding it extremely difficult to immigrate here. The Bush
administration should do everything possible to help ease the refugee burden
that this war has created.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | HUMAN RIGHTS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Metro Digest NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 481 words


MISSOURI

St. Louis County

Aldermen revise code on immigrants

VALLEY PARK - For the second time in five months, aldermen voted Monday night to
abandon Valley Park's efforts to enforce an ordinance targeting landlords who
rent to illegal immigrants.

The 5-3 vote was to delete parts of the city's housing code that prevent
landlords from getting occupancy permits if they rent to illegal immigrants.
Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker has until the board's next meeting to decide whether to
sign or veto the bill. An override would require six of the eight board members.
The board voted on the same issue in March, but Whitteaker vetoed their
decision.

St. Louis County

New police chief meets city council

LADUE - Monday's Ladue City Council meeting was the first for Police Chief Larry
C. White, who took office in June.

White is a former Missouri Highway Patrol captain and official with the Regional
Justice Information System. In Ladue, he heads a 22-officer department and is
being paid $90,000 a year.

He replaced Greg Wurm, who had served two years and left for a position in the
private sector, City Administrator Michael Wooldridge said.

Analysis may guide development

CLAYTON - St. Louis County officials want to hire a consultant to help develop a
community plan for the unincorporated area east of Lindbergh Boulevard between
St. Ann and Creve Coeur.

County Executive Charlie Dooley has asked the county council to authorize a
$25,000 contract with Economics Research Associates of Chicago for a market
analysis to see how realistic a plan for the area - called West Overland - would
be. The company would consider the area's demographics and potential for
developing housing, stores, offices and industrial facilities.

Elsewhere

Borrowers will share in settlement

Nearly 22,000 consumers in Illinois and another 7,325 in Missouri are eligible
for restitution in a nationwide settlement of a predatory lending lawsuit
against Ameriquest Mortgage Co.

The settlement against the nation's largest sub-prime lender totals $325
million.

More than 481,000 borrowers in 49 states who were customers of Ameriquest, Town
and Country Credit Corporation and AMC Mortgage Services Inc. (formerly Bedford
Home Loans) between Jan. 1, 1999, and Dec. 31, 2005, are eligible.

Consumers can get more information at the settlement administrator's website,
www.ameriquestmultistatesettlement.com, or by calling 1-800-420-5875. Hearing
impaired persons may call 1-866-494-8274.

Lutheran synod president re-elected

The Rev. Gerald Kieschnick was elected to a third three-year term as president
of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod, on Sunday at the church's convention in
Houston. Kieschnick, 64, received 52 percent of the vote.

The Rev. John Wohlrabe Jr., of Virginia Beach, Va., received 42 percent. There
are no term or age limits for the presidency of the 2.5 million-member
denomination. Its headquarters is in Kirkwood.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2007



CORRECTION: A news item in some editions of Tuesday's Metro section incorrectly
stated that Police Chief Larry C. White attended the Ladue City Council meeting
on Monday. The item was also incorrect in White's rank when he left the Missouri
Highway Patrol. He was a major.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

FOR SALE IMMIGRANTS BOOST MARKET Foreign-born residents are helping fuel
predictions of a rebound in housing.

BYLINE: By Mark Jewell The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: BILLERICA, MASS.


Patricia Ortiz and her husband, Sebastian, cut back on dining out, nights at the
movies, and even opted for a civil wedding ceremony instead of a big church
affair so they could afford to buy their $389,000 three-bedroom colonial.

In doing so, the Panamanian natives helped lift the nation's slumping housing
market.

With rising purchasing power, the nation's growing number of foreign-born
residents are keeping the bottom from falling out. And amid slow demand from an
aging and slow-growing native population, immigrants are fueling predictions of
a rebound.

Assuming Congress doesn't impose further restrictions, immigrants - both legal
and illegal - and their native-born children are forecast to provide the bulk of
coming years' growth in house-buying demand, nudging the market back up and
aiding the broader economy.

U.S. household growth from 2005 through 2015 is projected to reach about 14.6
million - about 2 million greater than in 1995-2005 - primarily because of
greater numbers of immigrants, according to a recent analysis by Harvard
University's Joint Center for Housing Studies. Most native-born children of
immigrants are classified as minorities, and minorities' share of new U.S.
households - a key driver of housing demand - is expected to rise from a little
more than two-thirds now to more than three-quarters by 2020, according to an
earlier Harvard study.

"As we come out of the this housing recession, immigrants will continue to have
an ever-larger role," said Dowell Myers, a University of Southern California
professor who studies immigrants' upward mobility. "If you were to stop
immigration, it would be devastating, because it would eventually pull this huge
chunk out of the housing market's foundation."

For immigrants who have left behind their families and cultures for a chance at
a better life, house buying is another risk worth taking. Patricia Ortiz and her
husband took out an adjustable-rate mortgage last year to buy in the Boston
suburb of Billerica, figuring the risk of seeing their current $3,000 monthly
payments rise is offset by the value of having a place they and their newborn
daughter can call home.

"Once you take the jump, you find ways to make it work," said Ortiz, 31, a
supervisor at a dental insurance provider and a naturalized citizen. "But it's
always in the back of my mind that if I don't make it, I am going to have to
pack up and go back to Panama. You kind of feel like you have to strive for
everything you do."

Immigrants formed more than 40 percent of the new households the nation added
from 2000 to 2005, up from a less than 30 percent share of net new households in
the 1990s and about 15 percent in the 1980s, the Harvard center found in its
latest annual housing market study.

"The number of new homes being built is sensitive to the number of households
added, which is why immigration is so important to the housing market," said
Eric Belsky, the center's executive director.

Although immigrants remain less likely to own a house and are more likely to
rent, the Harvard study found that the foreign-born accounted for 13.8 percent
of all house buyers in 2005 who had moved in within the preceding four years, up
from 11.4 percent in 2001.

Beyond the numbers, names tell the story: In 2000, the most common surnames
among U.S. house buyers were Smith, Johnson, Brown, Williams and Miller. In
2005, Rodriguez and Garcia bumped out Brown and Miller, according to DataQuick
Information Systems, a San Diego firm that analyzed deeds and county assessment
data records across most of the U.S.

"Immigrants are buying up the bottom of the housing market," said Myers, the USC
professor. "And if the bottom is soft, prices collapse. A small home is pushing
up the market, keeping home values up for the Hollywood Hills mansions."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Patricia Ortiz holds her daughter, Valentina, as her husband,
Sebastian, works on a laptop in the couple's new house in Billerica, Mass.
William B. Plowman | The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Whites in minority in nearly a tenth of U.S. counties

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher The Associated Press Greg Jonsson of the
Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Whites are now in the minority in nearly one in 10 U.S. counties.

And that increased diversity, fueled by immigration and higher birth rates among
blacks and Hispanics, is straining race relations and sparking a backlash
against immigrants in many communities.

"There's some culture shock," said Mark Mather of the Population Reference
Bureau, a Washington-based research agency. "But I think there is a momentum
building, and it is going to continue."

As of 2006, non-Hispanic whites made up less than half the population in 303 of
the nation's 3,141 counties, according to figures the Census Bureau is releasing
today. Whites were a minority in 262 counties in 2000, up from 183 in 1990.

The Census Bureau's report has population estimates by race and ethnicity for
every county in the nation. They are the first such estimates since Hurricane
Katrina hit the Gulf Coast in 2005, scattering hundreds of thousands of people.

The biggest changes in were in Orleans Parish, La., home to New Orleans. The
share of non-Hispanic whites in Orleans Parish grew from 27 percent in 2005 to
34 percent in 2006, while the share of blacks dropped from about 68 percent to
59 percent.

In the St. Louis metro area, the only county with more minorities than whites is
the city of St. Louis, which stands alone. The black population surpassed the
white population in St. Louis between the 1990 Census and the 2000 Census.

More than a quarter of the residents of St. Louis County, the area's most
populous, are minorities - mostly African-Americans. In St. Clair County, about
a third of residents are minorities, again mostly African-Americans.

Many of the nation's biggest counties have long had large minority populations.
But that diversity is now spreading to the suburbs and beyond, causing
resentment in some areas.

Teresita Jacinto, who was born in the United States, said she feels less welcome
today than when she first arrived 30 years ago in northern Virginia, when she
was one of few Hispanics in the area.

"Not only are we feeling less welcome, we are feeling threatened," said Jacinto,
a teacher in Woodbridge, Va., about 20 miles southwest of Washington.

Woodbridge is part of Prince William County, which recently passed a resolution
seeking to deny public services to illegal immigrants. Similar measures have
been approved or considered in dozens of communities across the nation,
including Valley Park. In all, state lawmakers have introduced more than 1,400
measures related to immigration this year, the National Conference of State
Legislatures says.

Supporters say local laws are necessary because Congress has failed to crack
down on the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the U.S. But many
Hispanics legally in the U.S. say they feel targeted, too.

"I think across the board all of us feel like we're not welcome," said Jacinto.

---

A look at Census numbers for the area

County Population % White* % Other

Missouri Franklin County 100,067 97.62 2.38 Jefferson County 216,469 97.24 2.76
Lincoln County 50,123 96.38 3.62 St. Charles County 338,719 93.05 6.95 St. Louis
County 1,000,510 73.84 26.16 Warren County 29,685 96.28 3.72 Washington County
24,182 95.48 4.52 City of St. Louis 347,181 45.69 54.31

Illinois Bond County 18,055 91.15 8.85 Calhoun County 5,177 98.92 1.08 Clinton
County 36,633 94.61 5.39 Jersey County 22,628 97.66 2.34 Macoupin County 48,841
97.81 2.19 Madison County 265,303 89.92 10.08 Monroe County 31,876 98.77 1.23
St. Clair County 260,919 67.68 32.32

Source: Census Bureau estimates for 2006

*Percent white, non-Hispanic

---

Get more

STLtoday.com/links Get more data from the Census Bureau.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A35

LENGTH: 1074 words


Advocates of unchecked immigration still duck real issues

What is it about people like Joan Suarez, author of the commentary "The
immigration debate will continue; we need true leaders" (Aug. 5), that renders
them incapable of thinking, saying or writing the word "illegal"?

They need to realize that the legislators who opposed the Senate bill - along
with the vast majority of Americans - are not opposed to immigration, just
illegal immigration and the threat it poses to our security and the burden it
puts on our social services and other government resources.

I also find it interesting that these same people who decried Valley Park for
ordinances directed at activity involving illegal immigration on the grounds
that immigration should be a federal concern now admit "Our country is
frustrated and angry with federal inaction on this issue."

If Ms. Suarez really wants to see more "true leaders" she should lead by example
by addressing the real issues rather than ducking them.

Chris Seibel | Ballwin

National suicide

Joan Suarez's column on "The immigration debate will continue; we need true
leaders" (Aug. 5) conveniently forgot to mention the cost put on U.S. taxpayers
by I-L-L-E-G-A-L aliens. Prisons, schools, hospitals, crime and other factors
have combined to form a macroeconomic nightmare. As our manufacturing base is
dismantled and even information technology jobs are send overseas, no one is
buying anymore the arguments Ms. Suarez would have us believe about employment.

Most embarrassing for Ms. Suarez must have been the Post-Dispatch's article on
Page A4 on the same day which claimed that U.S. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) was
hurt badly in Iowa by "his support for comprehensive immigration overhaul."
This, after Ms. Suarez lamented the actions of U.S. senators opposing her
personal "solution" to the immigration problem. Clearly the U.S. senators in
question responded to millions of e-mails, calls and faxes from angry Americans.

I speak Spanish fairly well, have lived all over Central America as a journalist
and even volunteer my time working with the New Dimensions Soccer League, which
helps immigrant and war-trauma children in St. Louis. (I even organized a coach
for a Spanish-speaking girls team.) Bosnians, victims of Pol Pot's killing
fields and other immigrants always will be welcomed in St. Louis. But the people
of Missouri and the United States finally have seen through the rhetoric of
immigration "advocates" and left-anointed experts like Ms. Suarez. Her plans
amount to national suicide.

Anthony C. LoBaido | Ladue

System crash

So Joan Suarez, an activist with Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates,
thinks our senators ignored the will of "the vast majority of Americans" when
they voted down the "Grand Compromise" immigration reform bill? In reality, the
Capitol switchboard was so inundated with calls from angry Americans opposing
the bill that the phone system actually crashed - a rare, if not unprecedented,
occurrence.

This seriously flawed bill was opposed by the people because it included a "path
to citizenship," essentially rewarding lawbreakers while subjecting American
workers and legal immigrants to unfair competition in the workplace and
threatening the solvency of taxpayer-supported programs such as Social Security
and Medicaid. Missourians are grateful to U.S. Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond and
Claire McCaskill for voting down this latest attempt to repackage
Kennedy-McCain. Unfortunately, some senators are still attempting to sneak
pieces of the failed legislation onto the backs of new bills. Americans should
continue to pay close attention and crash the Capitol switchboard again, if
necessary.

S.R. Hemm | St. Louis

No squatters' rights

Regarding the Joan Suarez commentary on immigration: I suspect Ms. Suarez is a
"hired gun" for amnesty advocates. Not once did she use the word "illegal" when
describing those who would break our laws by sneaking across our borders or
overstaying their visas.

U.S. Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond and Claire McCaskill were courageous to vote
against the bogus "comprehensive" immigration bill that was, in fact, amnesty.
They listened to the groundswell coming from the American people who simply want
the laws enforced that are already on the books. They did this despite cries
from the left that anyone opposing the bill was a "racist" and "hate-monger."
These despicable tactics did not work.

America is a great and generous country. We always have supported fair, legal
immigration. But it is a country that has the right to decide who comes in and
who stays here. No squatters' rights. No one who breaks our laws to get here is
welcome.

We cannot allow our country to become a transnational welfare state.

Joyce Maret | Clayton

Protect Americans

In blaming "the politics of fear and hate" for the collapse of the Senate's
recent immigration bill, Joan Suarez proves herself either uninformed or
deliberately misleading.

Despite Ms. Suarez' claim that "a well-documented majority" of Americans support
a "path to legality," nuanced polls (that offer respondents options besides the
false dichotomy of amnesty or immediate deportation) find that the majority
actually want our borders secured and immigration reduced. And while she
emphasizes the bill's bipartisan support, the opposition was actually more
bipartisan than its supporters. Americans indeed are "frustrated and angry" with
"federal inaction" - in not enforcing the laws that already exist.

Let's get real: President George W. Bush and the business lobby don't want
amnesty for illegal aliens because they like diversity. This bill is about
importing millions of impoverished low-skill workers to undercut Americans'
wages. It also strains our infrastructure, burdens our already-struggling health
care and education systems, accelerates unsustainable population growth and does
nothing to remedy the causes of mass immigration.

Illegal immigrants deserve compassion, but not at the cost of America's
beleaguered middle class. U.S. policy should encourage change in corrupt and
broken governments like those of Mexico and Guatemala, not prop up such regimes
by welcoming millions of economic refugees.

I thank U.S. Sens. Christopher "Kit" Bond and Claire McCaskill for voting
against a bill that most of their constituents opposed. Now let's craft
legislation that both protects ordinary Americans and demands real democratic
reform in immigrants' home countries.

Jesse Adams | Clayton

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (IMMIGRANTS FARMING ON FLAG) Dean Rohrer | Newsart

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Soldiers fear deportation of relatives "... It's hard being away and defending a
country that doesn't want your family," one soldier says.

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 636 words


Yaderlin Jimenez was an illegal immigrant facing deportation. Her husband, a
U.S. citizen and soldier, couldn't help her because he was missing after an
insurgent attack in Iraq.

Army Spc. Alex Jimenez, of Lawrence, Mass., disappeared in May after he was
apparently snatched in a raid on his unit south of Baghdad. His capture drew
national attention to his wife's deportation case, and Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff asked immigration officials to halt the proceedings.
His wife then became a legal resident.

The couple's plight put a public face on the private anguish of a growing number
of military families in similar straits.

About 35,000 legal immigrants without citizenship are now serving in the
military, and nearly 34,000 other service members have taken the citizenship
oath since 2001. That means when immigrant soldiers ship off to Iraq, they may
carry with them a worry their American-born counterparts are less likely to
share: Their family members could be deported while the soldiers are away.

"Every base has immigration problems," said Margaret Stock, an Army reservist
and immigration lawyer teaching at United States Military Academy at West Point.
"The government they're fighting for is the same government that's trying to
deport their families."

Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Eduardo Gonzalez is a citizen whose wife is now in
deportation proceedings.

"If I'm willing to die for the United States, why can't I just be allowed to be
with my family?" Gonzalez asked.

Supporters of tighter immigration controls say giving the relatives of service
members a free pass would only offer an incentive for immigrants to enlist to
legalize undocumented family members. They also oppose narrow solutions aimed at
individual cases such as that of Yaderlin Jimenez.

The Pentagon has long recognized that military life can be a strain on service
members' families, and that ensuring their well-being is a crucial part of
maintaining troop morale. But troops' families do not enjoy any special
treatment when it comes to immigration infractions, Stock said.

"We give relief to soldiers from everything else - from oppressive loans, from a
landlord that's trying to evict them while they're deployed," Stock said.
"Someone at the top needs to decide which is most important - to keep soldiers'
families together, because we know it's important for morale, or break them up
in the interest of enforcing immigration law."

The federal government encourages immigrants to enlist by streamlining their
citizenship applications, eliminating fees and making it easier for them to file
paperwork while serving abroad. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has
also postponed deportation of immigrants on active duty until they are
discharged.

The Pentagon did not respond to requests for comment on the treatment of service
members' undocumented family members. Homeland Security officials said all
immigration cases were dealt with individually.

Family worries

Sometimes reaching out to the military for help can backfire.

Before deploying to Iraq last September, Army Spc. Angel Rodriguez sought help
from the legal office at Fort Polk, La., for his wife, Haydee, who had entered
the country legally as a 13-year-old tourist from Honduras but overstayed her
visa.

Haydee Rodriguez was afraid she would be deported while her husband was
overseas, which would leave her 2-year-old son in limbo. She decided to move to
California to be near her husband's family.

His mother, his mother's boyfriend and Angel Rodriguez's brother drove to
Louisiana to pick her up. His mother's boyfriend, an illegal immigrant, was
detained at the base and then deported to Mexico.

"I joined the Army, and I take pride in what I do," Angel Rodriguez said. "But
it's hard being away and defending a country that doesn't want your family."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigrants in the military

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Mildred Gonzalez (left) watches as her son, Eduardo Gonzalez II, helps
her husband, Petty Officer 2nd Class Eduardo Gonzalez, pack in the bedroom of
their apartment in Jacksonville, Fla.,  before he leaves for a 30-day
deployment. The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigrants' money fuels booming economy Cash sent home totaled almost $276
billion last year.

BYLINE: By William J. Kole The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania


Josif Poro pats his new sofa, points with pride to his carpet and runs a
wrinkled hand over a gleaming white refrigerator.

He and his wife barely scrape by on their $220 monthly pension. They'd have to
do without many of the items in their cramped apartment if their son, a factory
worker in Greece, didn't faithfully send home part of his earnings.

"We call him our golden boy," said Poro, 83, a retired textile-mill worker.

Around the world, millions of immigrants are sending billions of dollars back
home.

One sweaty wad of bills or $200 Western Union moneygram at a time, they form
what could be called Immigration, Inc. - one of the biggest businesses on the
planet.

Experts tracking the phenomenon told The Associated Press they have gotten a
much clearer picture since the 9/11 attacks, when authorities trying to cut the
flow of cash to jihadists began taking a harder look at how immigrants move
their money around.

Mass migration, they say, has spawned an underground economy of staggering
proportions.

Globally, remittances - the cash that immigrants send home - totaled nearly $276
billion in 2006, the World Bank says. Remittances have more than doubled since
2000, and with globalization increasing the numbers of people on the move,
there's no end in sight.

If these guest workers incorporated as a company, their migrant multinational
would rank No. 3 on the Fortune 500 list, trailing only Wal-Mart and Exxon Mobil
in annual revenue.

Remittances "are larger than direct foreign investment in Mexico, tea exports in
Sri Lanka, tourism revenue in Morocco, and revenue from the Suez Canal in
Egypt," World Bank economist Dilip Ratha said in a recent report.

And unlike the conventional economy, more cash tends to change hands in an
economic downturn, political crisis, natural disaster, famine or war.

Counterterrorism officials say al-Qaida and other groups are financed in part
through informal money transfer networks called hawalas. Governments and the
International Monetary Fund have been working to regulate those.

There are other downsides: fears of brain drains and a vast permanent army of
economic exiles, and the untaxed earnings flowing out of host nations.

The U.S. lost $41.1 billion in 2005, according to the World Bank, while
Switzerland watched $13.2 billion trickle out of the country that year.

Meanwhile, from Poland to the Philippines, remittances are throwing lifelines to
families combating poverty and helping to keep some national economies afloat:

- Across Latin America, remittances hit $62 billion last year and are projected
to top $100 billion by 2010, the Inter-American Development Bank says. Mexicans
wire home the most cash - nearly $22 billion - most of it earned in the U.S.

- India is the world leader in remittances, taking in $23.7 billion in 2005 and
an estimated $26.9 billion last year, the World Bank says. Western Union,
traditionally one of the most frequently tapped money transfer companies, says
its share of Indian transactions has grown at least 90 percent over each of the
past six quarters.

But much of the world's migration is illegal, and although many immigrants work
at menial jobs, some are doctors, engineers and other professionals. Their
departure can mean a brain drain of highly trained personnel and create an
immigration culture.

"Migration creates more migration," said Ilir Gedeshi, director of the Center
for Economic and Social Studies in Albania, whose emigrants have stashed an
estimated $14 billion in foreign banks. "It's a cycle. The next generation has
to leave because there are no jobs being created for them here."

For Ismet and Safija Helja, retired in impoverished Bosnia, the cash their
carpenter son, Nedzad, sends from America boils down to this: not having to eat
at a soup kitchen.

Like clockwork, it arrives every three months. "Sometimes $1,000, sometimes
$500, depending how good he does," said Ismet Helja, 67.

"If it wasn't for Nedzad's money," he said, "we would die."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - Gustavo Soto (right) talks with Carmine Mandile at Soto's restaurant,
El Molino, in Carpentersville, Ill., last month.  Soto, who immigrated from
Mexico to the U.S. in 1973, believes the town's idea to pass a law making it
illegal to rent to or hire illegal immigrants would only alienate
Carpenterville's already divided community, which is more than 40 percent
Hispanic.   The Associated Press  GRAPHIC - Billions in wages cross borders
annually AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 428 words


LOS ANGELES

Immigration activist from Chicago is arrested

An immigration activist who took refuge inside a Chicago church for a year was
arrested in Los Angeles on Sunday afternoon after taking her campaign on the
road.

Elvira Arellano, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, was arrested after leaving
Our Lady Queen of Angels church in downtown Los Angeles, said Emma Lozano, an
adviser who was there during the arrest. Arellano was with her 8-year-old son,
Saul, when the van in which they were riding was stopped by law enforcement
officials, who arrested Arellano.

Arellano was convicted of working under a false Social Security number and was
to surrender to authorities last August for deportation. Instead she took refuge
in the church. Her defiance has drawn attention to the cases of illegal
immigrants whose children, like Saul, are U.S. citizens.

SAN FRANCISCO

Psychologists denounce interrogation methods

The American Psychological Association ruled Sunday that psychologists can no
longer be associated with several interrogation techniques that have been used
against terrorism detainees at U.S. facilities because the methods are immoral,
psychologically damaging and counterproductive in eliciting useful information.

Psychologists who witness interrogators using mock executions, simulated
drowning, sexual and religious humiliation, stress positions or sleep
deprivation are required to intervene to stop such abuse.

The move by the APA, the nation's largest association of behavioral experts, is
a rebuke of the U.S. administration's anti-terrorism policies, because many of
the techniques deemed unacceptable have been widely reported to be used at
military facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as well as in Iraq and at various
CIA detention centers.

NEW YORK

Lack of water hampered firefighters at high-rise

Fighting a fire in a high-rise office building next to the World Trade Center
site was complicated by a lack of water and little easy access in the tower that
has stood abandoned since the terrorist attack on Sept. 11, 2001, a New York
City fire official said Sunday.

Two firefighters died battling the blaze that started Saturday in the former
Deutsche Bank building, which was damaged by falling wreckage from the
collapsing trade center towers.

Because the building has been largely gutted and is being dismantled, the only
ways up to the burning floors were a construction elevator on the outside of the
building and stairs inside. In addition, the building's water supply system was
dry, forcing firefighters to use ropes to pull hoses to the upper floors.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 20, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 422 words


LOS ANGELES

Immigration activist from Chicago is arrested

An illegal Mexican immigrant who stayed in a Chicago church for a year to avoid
separation from her 8-year-old son, a U.S. citizen, was arrested Sunday and is
being processed for deportation.

Elvira Arellano, who arrived in Los Angeles on Saturday after leaving her
sanctuary to campaign for immigration reform, was arrested around 1:30 p.m.
outside Our Lady Queen of Angels Catholic Church. Arellano was with her son,
Saul, when the van in which they were riding was stopped by law enforcement
officials, who arrested Arellano.

Arellano was convicted of working under a false Social Security number and was
to surrender to authorities last August for deportation. Instead, she took
refuge in the church. Her defiance has drawn attention to the cases of illegal
immigrants whose children are U.S. citizens.

MINNEAPOLIS

Another body recovered from collapsed bridge

The body of a man missing since an interstate bridge collapsed into the
Mississippi River was recovered early Sunday, bringing the confirmed death toll
to 12, authorities said.

The Hennepin County medical examiner's office identified the remains as Scott
Sathers, 30, of Maple Grove, Minn.

Sathers worked in enrollment services at Capella University and was on his way
home from work Aug. 1, using his usual route, when the Interstate 35W bridge
crumpled amid evening rush hour traffic.

Divers continued to search for the last person on the list of missing, Greg
Jolstad, 45, of Mora, Minn. He was part of the construction team doing surface
repairs on the bridge when it went down.

NEW YORK

Lack of water hampered firefighters at high-rise

Fighting a fire in a high-rise office building next to the World Trade Center
site was complicated by a lack of water and little easy access in the tower that
has stood abandoned since the terrorist attack on Sept. 11, 2001, a New York
City fire official said Sunday.

Two firefighters died battling the blaze that started Saturday in the former
Deutsche Bank building, which was damaged by falling wreckage from the
collapsing trade center towers. and contaminated by toxic dust and human
remains.

The blaze began about a dozen floors up and burned on multiple floors, but
because the building has been largely gutted and is being dismantled, the only
ways up to the burning floors were a construction elevator on the outside of the
building and stairs inside. In addition, the building's water supply system was
dry, forcing firefighters to use ropes to pull hoses to the upper floors.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bosnian president's planned visit is source of pride to immigrants here

BYLINE: By Tim O'Neil ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 409 words


The plan of Bosnia-Herzegovina's president to attend the St. Louis Bosnian
heritage festival is a sign of the immigrant group's vitality here, local
organizers say.

Zeljko Komsic, current chairman of Bosnia-Herzegovina's three-member presidency,
is expected to arrive in St. Louis on Aug. 30 for a four-day visit that will
include appearances at the fourth annual Bosnia and Herzegovina Festival. Komsic
will speak at gatherings Aug. 30-31 and attend festival events over the Labor
Day weekend in Carondelet Park in south St. Louis.

Leaders of the local Bosnian community announced those details Wednesday. The
festival also will include a soccer tournament Sept. 1-2 for teams from across
North America, a chess tournament and a one-day gathering of food, music and
booths in the park near Boat House Lake on Sunday, Sept. 2.

Ibrahim Vajzovic, acting head of the sponsoring United Bosnian Association of
St. Louis, said Komsic's visit is a great honor for Bosnian-Americans here and a
chance to show the home country that Bosnians of all religious affiliations can
prosper peacefully.

An estimated 40,000 or more Bosnian-Americans live in the metro area, mostly in
south St. Louis and south St. Louis County. Most arrived during the early 1990s
as refugees from the civil war in the old Yugoslavia. The community is regarded
as the largest outside Bosnia itself.

"We have established a large, sustainable community," Vajzovic said. "We have
our children in the schools, we own businesses. If you go to a bank, our people
work there. We have succeeded here in America. We want to show that people can
live together."

Although most local Bosnians are Muslims, Komsic's visit will include a stop at
St. Joseph Croatian Catholic Church in Soulard. Komsic is Catholic.

This will be the second visit to St. Louis by a president of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
A former president, Sulejman Tihic, made a one-day visit here in September 2004.
But Vajzovic and other leaders said Komsic's visit will be much more extensive.

Komsic will speak Aug. 30 to the World Affairs Council of St. Louis at the
Ritz-Carlton hotel in Clayton. On Aug. 31, he is among speakers scheduled at a
dinner at Orlando Gardens in Lemay honoring the 10th anniversary of Sabah, a
Bosnian-American weekly newspaper that moved to the Bevo neighborhood from New
York in 2005. Komsic also is expected to meet area political leaders, including
Mayor Francis Slay and St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

METRO DIGEST NEWS FROM AROUND THE REGION

BYLINE: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 778 words


MISSOURI

Region

Deal reached on defibrillators

Missouri, Illinois, 33 other states and the District of Columbia have reached a
settlement requiring one of the world's largest manufacturers of defibrillators
to disclose safety information to the public.

The settlement resolves a lawsuit against Guidant Corp. of Indiana, which was
acquired last year by Boston Scientific of Natick, Mass. The lawsuit alleged
that Guidant had sold implantable cardio defibrillators with a potentially
life-threatening wiring problem without informing doctors or the public.

Three subsidiaries of Boston Scientific, including Guidant, will pay $16.7
million to the states, including $605,000 to Illinois and $390,000 to Missouri,
to be used for enforcement of consumer protection laws.

The subsidiaries also agreed to appoint a physician to a new position of patient
safety officer, disclose failure data quarterly and post notices of any
modifications to correct a failure pattern.

St. Louis

Immigration crackdown draws fire

Hispanic advocates criticized on Thursday Gov. Matt Blunt's new crackdown on
illegal immigration, just hours before Blunt announced the effort had yielded
its first arrest and deportation proceedings of an undocumented resident.

Hispanic business owners and professionals worry the new statewide initiative
will target them for immigration checks just because of their ethnicity, said
Jorge Riopedre, secretary of the St. Louis-area Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

"This is an open door to racial profiling," Riopedre said. "They're not talking
about immigrants - they're talking about Hispanics."

Blunt's spokeswoman Jessica Robinson disagreed, saying: "The only people
affected by this are ones who broke the law, violated the border and have no
legal right to be in the United States."

Wording changed on measure

A group seeking to restrict embryonic stem cell research in Missouri says it has
filed new wording in its effort to get the issue before voters.

Cures Without Cloning spokesman Curt Mercadante says the language is more
straightforward. It eliminates a reference linking human life to an egg
receiving a complete set of 46 chromosomes.

Critics of the measure had charged that the wording excluded people with
conditions like Down syndrome from the definition of human.

The new wording must be approved by the secretary of state's office. From there,
supporters need to collect about 200,000 signatures to get the issue before
voters.

Elsewhere

Push to limit courts still on

JEFFERSON CITY - Leading House Republicans in Missouri vowed Thursday to forge
ahead with a proposal limiting the courts' ability to rule on tax and spending
issues - even though a court decision this week in a school funding case may
have diminished some of their momentum.

The proposed constitutional amendment would bar state courts from ordering tax
increases or the spending of state revenue, all of which fall under the
Legislature's prerogative. The measure passed in the House this year but did not
come to a vote in the Senate. It is expected to be reintroduced next year.

Although supporters of the amendment don't cite examples of that happening in
Missouri, some lawmakers had feared that a lawsuit by about half the state's
school districts could lead a judge to order additional spending - and
implicitly higher taxes - for schools. Experts for the schools had claimed the
state was shortchanging schools by as much as $1 billion annually.

But Cole County Circuit Judge Richard Callahan on Wednesday upheld the
constitutionality of the state's school funding method, rejecting most arguments
that Missouri's money for schools was inadequate or unfairly distributed.

Teen dies from tick-borne disease

CENTRALIA, MO. - A 15-year-old central Missouri girl has died from a rare but
treatable tick-borne disease, officials said Thursday.

The Boone County medical examiner's office identified the victim as Emily
Powell, a Centralia High School freshman. The cause of death was ehrlichiosis, a
bacterial illness. She died Wednesday, two days after being admitted to
University Hospital in Columbia, Mo.

Symptoms of ehrlichiosis include fever, headache, fatigue and muscle aches,
according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Other signs
and symptoms can include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, cough, joint pains,
confusion and rashes.

ILLINOIS

Metro East

2 area teachers nominated for award

Two Metro East teachers are among the eight nominated for Illinois Teacher of
the Year.

Jan Wiggs, a second-grade teacher at Freeburg Primary Center, and Deborah
Keeven, a third-grade teacher at New Douglas Mid-Elementary in the Highland
School District, were selected from 170 nominations.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Wife of man who died heroically now faces deportation She is among more than 80
foreign-born widows in U.S. awaiting similar fate.

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa and William McCall THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Jacqueline Coats' husband drowned after he dove into a fierce Pacific Ocean
riptide to rescue two boys. Now the immigrant from Kenya might be forced to
leave the United States because he died before filing her residency application.

She is among more than 80 foreign-born widows across the nation who face
possible deportation because their husbands died before immigration paperwork
was approved. Some attorneys want to challenge the government's policy of
rejecting green card requests if an immigrant's American spouse dies before the
application is processed. At least one lawyer plans to file a class-action
lawsuit.

"This is a wrong that definitely has to be righted," said immigration attorney
Ralph Pineda of Orlando, Fla.

A group of California state lawmakers filed a bill in January asking the
Legislature to grant Coats legal status, but similar measures for other
immigrants have seldom passed.

"It is an outrage and an injustice to the memory of this courageous hero that
his wife should suffer the loss of family and livelihood once again," said
Democratic Assembly member Mary Hayashi.

The government has also generally denied applications for permanent residence -
so-called "green cards" - for surviving spouses of U.S. citizens if the death
occurs during the first two years of marriage.

Coats came to the U.S. in 2001 to attend San Jose State University. During her
stay, she met Marlin Coats. Her husband's large family - he had seven siblings,
some of them married with children - became like her own.

But while she was a student, she lost her legal immigration status. She had come
on a student visa, which requires a full-time schedule. When time conflicts
between classes left her three units short, immigration officials were notified.

Deportation proceedings began 11 days before her wedding, she said.

After the wedding, attorneys advised Marlin Coats to enter a petition for
residency in his wife's name. Although her immigration status had lapsed, she
had entered legally, so nothing prevented her from staying.

The papers were signed and ready to go last year when Marlin Coats and his
siblings took their mother to San Francisco's Ocean Beach for Mother's Day.

Marlin Coats was on the sand when he heard two children screaming from the
chilly water. He dove in to save them. A rescue crew saved the two boys, but the
fierce currents were too much for Coats. After his death, he was awarded one of
the Coast Guard's highest honors, the Gold Lifesaving Medal.

Attorneys for some of the estimated 85 widows affected nationally say the
government has interpreted federal law too harshly.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
the case was unusual because the Coatses had not submitted an application before
Marlin Coats' death.

If a couple have been married for less than two years, and the application has
been approved, the foreign-born spouse can seek a review that is considered on a
case-by-case basis, according to immigration officials.

But if an application is pending at the time of death, "then it's not
considered," a spokeswoman said. Exceptions include widows of active military
personnel.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

'San Luis' is home away from home for landscape workers Part 2 of 2 o Lawn care
firms rely on workers from Mexico, can't find folks here to do the work.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1240 words


On a Monday morning last month, Henry López stooped over a 2-foot shrub with his
hedge trimmer, its whine drowning out the steady whir of tires on blacktop
behind him.

Slice. Slice. Slice. A little off the top. And he stepped over to the next one.

Again and again, dozens of times along the perimeter of the Dierbergs parking
lot out in Chesterfield, López bent the shrubs into shape. Then he moved on to
the squat trees and the islands of grass tucked in amid the asphalt.

"Everything you see that's green, we've got to take care of it," said López's
co-worker, Juan Alonzo.

This is why López and Alonzo traveled 1,600 miles from a village in the
mountains of northeastern Mexico: to work here in the August heat, trimming
endless shrubs and mowing scores of lawns, doing a job that their employers say
few Americans will take.

Yes, if immigrants are being pushed out of Mexico by lack of opportunity,
they're also being pulled here by an ever-growing demand for the jobs they'll
do: in this case hot, dirty work that pays $8 or $10 or $12 an hour.

López and Alonzo came here legally, with a 10-month visa and a job in hand,
labor imported through the H-2B temporary worker program. It's been often
overlooked in the two-year national tumult over immigration, but it's become
increasingly essential to the handful of industries that rely on it. So the
businesses have been closely watching the twists and turns of immigration
reform, knowing their worker pipeline could dry up at any time.

In St. Louis, no industry relies more on H-2B than landscaping. The program
supplies low-level workers to most of the region's big landscape companies:
Those companies received over 2,700 visas last year alone, according to the
Labor Department.

"There's just nobody here in this area willing to do this work," said Ted
Bergman, president of Symmetry Landscaping in Hazelwood. "There are not
physically the bodies there to do it."

And the work keeps growing. The landscaping industry has thrived in recent
years, jumping from $28.9 billion in 2002 to an estimated $41.6 billion in 2004,
according to the trade group PLANET.

St. Louis is no different. Every shiny shopping plaza, every new office park,
every high-end subdivision that's unfurled across St. Louis, St. Charles and
Jefferson counties in recent years must be mowed. Most turn to commercial
landscapers.

And that's good news for people like Maurice Dowell.

Dowell and his wife run Dowco Enterprises, a midsize landscaper in Chesterfield.
They started mowing almost three decades ago, around sales jobs at Sears, and
when they launched their company in 1986, they scrounged to pay employees from
their own salaries. Today they employ 38 people, and they drive BMWs.

Dowell used to hire immigrants and trust that the papers they showed him were
legitimate. Then, about 10 years ago, he got a scare. A letter from the Social
Security Administration said that the numbers on tax forms he was submitting
didn't match anything in the agency's database.

"I just knew a white truck would pull up one day, and that would be it," he
said.

So he found an immigration lawyer, learned about H-2B, and arranged to bring his
workers here legally. He has been using it ever since, and this year brought in
22, including Henry López and Juan Alonzo.

While Dowco does some commercial landscaping, most of its work is high-end
residential. Dowco specializes in tending to the acre-plus, $750,000 homes that
have sprouted up across Chesterfield and Wildwood in recent years, and takes a
"high touch" approach, with full-service design, irrigation and frequent upkeep
- 32 mows a year is standard.

That upkeep is what generates the profit, and most of it is done by his H-2B
workers.

"They're the breadwinners," said Dowell, who keeps language tapes and a copy of
"Spanish Phrases for Landscape Professionals" on his office bookshelf alongside
business books and paperback thrillers.

Like other landscapers, Dowell says he has tried to hire Americans. Right now,
he has five on his work crews. But when he advertises his openings - as he must
to qualify for H-2B - he gets little interest. The last two years, he got none.

Part of the problem, he says, is the program's timing. To get H-2B workers for
spring, Dowco needs to apply for the visas in December. So it needs to advertise
in October for an $8 an hour job that won't start for four months and only lasts
nine. And every local company advertises at once.

"The odds are, you're not going to get a lot of individuals who are going to
knock your door down," Dowell said. "The system has some flaws."

But he and other landscapers say even when Americans do take jobs, they rarely
stick.

Bergman has tried hiring from felony release programs, talking with temp
agencies, paying all kinds of salaries.

"People literally show up one day, take a look, and say 'I'm not doing this,' "
he said.

So he turns to Mexico.

And if H-2B gets wiped out, both Dowell and Bergman say, the jobs of the
Americans they employ - landscape architects, account managers, office staff -
probably will too.

"We would not be in business without it," Dowell said.

Yes, the livelihoods of American workers are increasingly tied to that of
imported workers, like Juan Alonzo.

The first time Alonzo came north, it was 12 years ago. He walked across the
desert. No papers. He had a brother in St. Louis, so he made his way here and
got a job. He was working at Dowco when that letter from Social Security arrived
10 years ago, and ever since then he has been on H-2B, legal.

Now he is a supervisor and patrols Dowco's West County turf in a white company
pickup, checking in on work crews and meeting with clients. He speaks English.
He makes $17 an hour. He works odds jobs on the weekends for extra cash.

He rents an apartment in Chesterfield, but most of the money goes home, to
Palmillas, to his wife and three daughters, ages 7, 5 and 3. And while he does
go home each winter and gets an occasional vacation, he has missed a lot of
their growing up.

"It's hard," Alonzo said, fingering the ring on his thick left hand. "But if you
want a better life, you need to stay here."

He is not sure what will happen if he can't come back next year. He doesn't want
to walk across the desert again. But back home he can't make enough to support
his girls. Would he come back?

"I don't know," he said. "Maybe I try one more time."

But even if he stays home, a lot of people are already here.

Things have changed in San Luis since he first arrived, Alonzo said. Used to be,
there were just a couple of Mexican stores. Now they're all over. So are
immigrants. Alonzo alone has eight brothers here; one is a naturalized citizen.
They come for the jobs, in landscaping, painting, hotels.

"St. Louis has a lot of opportunity for work," he said. "Look everywhere. You
see Mexicans working."

---

This is Part 2 of a two-part series about St. Louis within a global labor
market.

Top local users of H-2B visas

Topcare Lawn Services Inc. Fenton 310

Proline Management Corp. St. Charles 202

Loyet Landscape Maintenance St. Charles 150

Munie Greencare Professionals Caseyville 135

Symmetry Landscape Inc. Hazelwood 115

Ideal Landscape South St. Louis County 100

Anchor Building Services St. Ann 75

Brake Landscape and Lawncare St. Louis 58

Baxter Gardens Chesterfield 55

These companies were approved for the most H-2B visas in the

St. Louis area last year. Only Anchor, a building maintenance firm, is not a
landscaping business.

Source: Labor Department

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Henry López, a legal guest worker here for Dowco Enterprises
of Chesterfield, helps keep the Dierbergs at Baxter and Clarkson roads in shape.
Photo by Kevin Manning | Post-Dispatch    PHOTO - Juan Alonzo (left) has been
with Dowco for more than 10 years and is now a supervisor for the company. At
right is Maurice Dowell, Dowco Enterprises' owner. Photo by Kevin Manning |
Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 8, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Official's immigration views may cost KC convention trade

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


A woman whose presence on the city's park board has two national groups
threatening to pull their conventions from Kansas City unless she steps down.
Frances Semler says she doesn't intend to resign.

Mayor Mark Funkhouser's June appointment of Semler, an anti-illegal immigration
activist and member of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, has caused a stir in
the local Hispanic community. It also has led officers of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the National Council of La
Raza to threaten cancellation of national conventions in Kansas City.

Not hosting those events in 2009 and 2010 could cost the city thousands of
visitors and millions of dollars.

Semler said Thursday that she felt the pressure from the two national groups and
was shaken by a local group that showed up at her doorstep Wednesday.

But, she said, "I don't intend to resign."

In June, Funkhouser turned down Semler's offer to resign after the initial
uproar over her appointment. But on Thursday he said, because of recent events,
he wouldn't require her to stay on the park board.

"If she feels like it's more than she wants to deal with, I'm not going to force
her to do it," Funkhouser said.

Semler called the attention from the national civil rights groups "the most
ridiculous thing I've ever heard" and said her views on immigration should not
affect her service on the board. She is a member of the Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps, which opposes illegal immigration and has set up patrols along the border
with Mexico.

Funkhouser said he continues to support Semler, even if it means losing the two
conventions or any other events.

The dispute comes amid efforts to boost downtown and has left many in the Kansas
City tourism industry concerned.

More than $1 billion has been invested in visitor amenities and attractions now
under construction in a reinvented entertainment district near the city's Bartle
Hall convention center.

"This has turned into a political dogfight that hurts our employees, and that is
sad," said Tom Holden, executive director of the Hotel and Lodging Association
of Greater Kansas City.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

UMSL class lifts veil on Bosnians Affton project: Americans learn about culture,
language of immigrants among them.

BYLINE: By Kavita Kumar ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 946 words


Jennifer Wagner cringes when she talks to Bosnian parents on the phone and can't
pronounce their names correctly.

"You feel bad asking for Mr. or Mrs. ... whatever," said Wagner, an
administrative assistant in the Bayless School District's superintendent's
office who often talks to parents about transportation issues or school
paperwork.

She also knows that many Bosnian-American students are in the midst of Ramadan,
but she wishes she had a better grasp of what the holy month observed by Muslims
is all about.

So she decided to enroll in a fairly new continuing education class about
Bosnian language and culture offered in Affton through the University of
Missouri-St. Louis. The course geared toward non-Bosnian residents is one of
several initiatives of the Affton Community Partnership.

The partnership came out of a $200,000 two-year grant, which expires in
November, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. UMSL professors
focused on Affton because it is an inner ring suburb that is doing well but is
also facing various challenges, said Terry Jones, one of the UMSL leaders of the
project.

Affton has an aging population and housing stock as well as a large influx of
immigrants and refugees, many of them from Bosnia, he said.

In the last two years, UMSL graduate students and professors have been working
with Affton leaders and St. Louis County departments to strengthen the Affton
Community Betterment Association, a community voice for the unincorporated area.
The group now has a strategic plan and has held several community forums.

The partnership has also created brochures and resource sheets to inform
residents about home modification programs and services to help them maintain
their homes, many of which were built just before and after World War II.

Finally, the group formed a "New Americans Task Force," which is working to
encourage a multicultural business corridor in Affton, similar to the Bosnian
shops along Gravois Avenue in the southern part of the city. One Bosnian
restaurant has already opened, and other businesses are in development.

The Bosnian culture and language class is also an outgrowth of the task force.
About 27 percent of students in the Bayless schools are Bosnian-American,
according to the partnership.

"We heard some anecdotes about tension" between Bosnians and other residents,
said Kay Gasen, another leader of the project from UMSL. "But I think more than
tension, there was a real desire for increased communication and understanding."

class topics

The class has filled up quickly to its maximum of 24 students each time it has
been offered.

In the first class session, students learn the basics of the Bosnian language,
including the alphabet, numbers, and a few phrases like hello (zdravo) and thank
you (hvala). They eat burek (meat pastries) and sirnica (cheese pies) as well as
hurmasice (a dessert like pound cake). They listen to bits of Bosnian music and
learn some steps to Bosnian dances.

The second class is more serious, said Daniela Sales, the course instructor.
It's about Bosnian history, the war and genocide. It's also when Sales tries to
combat some of the stereotypes about Bosnians.

One common myth is that Bosnians don't want to learn English, she said. Sales
explains to the class that the transition to American life and culture can be
quite difficult and hectic. Another misconception she often hears is that most
of them are illegal immigrants, and so don't pay taxes.

The third class in the series was held one night last week at Novella Books on
South Kingshighway in St. Louis. In her one-room, warmly lit shop, owner Dijana
Groth told the class that the business she opened in April 2006 is the only
bookstore in the country that sells Bosnian and Croatian literature.

She introduced the class to books translated into English like Mesa Selimovic's
"Death and the Dervish," which she said is a staple of Bosnian literature. She
showed them Bosnian children's books, short stories, poetry and greeting cards.

Also on her shelves are books by popular American writers - Danielle Steele,
Agatha Christie, Ernest Hemingway - that are translated into Bosnian and
Croatian. She also has the "Da Vinci Code" in Croatian, or "Da Vincijec Kod."

The students peppered Groth with other questions: Is it Bosnia - or
Bosnia-Herzegovina? (It's the latter, but people often say just Bosnia out of
habit and because it's shorter, Groth said.)

Are there still many Bosnian immigrants coming to St. Louis? (It's slowed down
quite a bit, in part because of changes to immigration laws. There's a longer
waiting list now, too, to bring immediate family members over, Groth said.)

Groth told them that one of the biggest complaints she hears from her
non-Bosnian friends is the perception that Bosnians are a bit standoffish.

It's really just that sometimes they can be insecure about fitting in, she said.

"Americans may misinterpret it as being snobby," she said.

That made sense to Eileen Heath, the secretary of the Bayless School Board and a
respiratory therapist with a growing Bosnian clientele. She felt all eyes on her
when she walked into a Bosnian bakery once. But now she realizes that perhaps
people were just being shy and not sure how to act around her.

Heath has also been trying to get Bosnian parents more involved in the schools,
but it's been difficult, she acknowledges. She makes a point of introducing
herself at sporting events where she often sees them. She hopes this class will
give her more insight and enable her to make better inroads.

"When I'm sitting there making decisions about them, I need to know a little bit
more about them," she said. "I want to know what drum they beat from."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Soraya Rivadeneira, of O'Fallon, Mo. (right), talks with Dijana Groth
(not pictured), owner of Novella Book Store, as Joseph Wagner of Pevely, and his
mother, Jennifer Wagner of Lemay, look at books about Bosnian culture during a
class about Bosnia offered by the University of Missouri-St. Louis.  Sarah
Conard | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

UMSL class lifts veil on Bosnians affton project: Americans learn about culture,
language of immigrants among them.

BYLINE: By Kavita Kumar ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 946 words


Jennifer Wagner cringes when she talks to Bosnian parents on the phone and can't
pronounce their names correctly.

"You feel bad asking for Mr. or Mrs. ... whatever," said Wagner, an
administrative assistant in the Bayless School District's superintendent's
office who often talks to parents about transportation issues or school
paperwork.

She also knows that many Bosnian-American students are in the midst of Ramadan,
but she wishes she had a better grasp of what the holy month observed by Muslims
is all about.

So she decided to enroll in a fairly new continuing education class about
Bosnian language and culture offered in Affton through the University of
Missouri-St. Louis. The course geared toward non-Bosnian residents is one of
several initiatives of the Affton Community Partnership.

The partnership came out of a $200,000 two-year grant, which expires in
November, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. UMSL professors
focused on Affton because it is an inner ring suburb that is doing well but is
also facing various challenges, said Terry Jones, one of the UMSL leaders of the
project.

Affton has an aging population and housing stock as well as a large influx of
immigrants and refugees, many of them from Bosnia, he said.

In the last two years, UMSL graduate students and professors have been working
with Affton leaders and St. Louis County departments to strengthen the Affton
Community Betterment Association, a community voice for the unincorporated area.
The group now has a strategic plan and has held several community forums.

The partnership has also created brochures and resource sheets to inform
residents about home modification programs and services to help them maintain
their homes, many of which were built just before and after World War II.

Finally, the group formed a "New Americans Task Force," which is working to
encourage a multicultural business corridor in Affton, similar to the Bosnian
shops along Gravois Avenue in the southern part of the city. One Bosnian
restaurant has already opened, and other businesses are in development.

The Bosnian culture and language class is also an outgrowth of the task force.
About 27 percent of students in the Bayless schools are Bosnian-American,
according to the partnership.

"We heard some anecdotes about tension" between Bosnians and other residents,
said Kay Gasen, another leader of the project from UMSL. "But I think more than
tension, there was a real desire for increased communication and understanding."

class topics

The class has filled up quickly to its maximum of 24 students each time it has
been offered.

In the first class session, students learn the basics of the Bosnian language,
including the alphabet, numbers, and a few phrases like hello (zdravo) and thank
you (hvala). They eat burek (meat pastries) and sirnica (cheese pies) as well as
hurmasice (a dessert like pound cake). They listen to bits of Bosnian music and
learn some steps to Bosnian dances.

The second class is more serious, said Daniela Sales, the course instructor.
It's about Bosnian history, the war and genocide. It's also when Sales tries to
combat some of the stereotypes about Bosnians.

One common myth is that Bosnians don't want to learn English, she said. Sales
explains to the class that the transition to American life and culture can be
quite difficult and hectic. Another misconception she often hears is that most
of them are illegal immigrants, and so don't pay taxes.

The third class in the series was held one night last week at Novella Books on
South Kingshighway in St. Louis. In her one-room, warmly lit shop, owner Dijana
Groth told the class that the business she opened in April 2006 is the only
bookstore in the country that sells Bosnian and Croatian literature.

She introduced the class to books translated into English like Mesa Selimovic's
"Death and the Dervish," which she said is a staple of Bosnian literature. She
showed them Bosnian children's books, short stories, poetry and greeting cards.

Also on her shelves are books by popular American writers - Danielle Steele,
Agatha Christie, Ernest Hemingway - that are translated into Bosnian and
Croatian. She also has the "Da Vinci Code" in Croatian, or "Da Vincijec Kod."

The students peppered Groth with other questions: Is it Bosnia - or
Bosnia-Herzegovina? (It's the latter, but people often say just Bosnia out of
habit and because it's shorter, Groth said.)

Are there still many Bosnian immigrants coming to St. Louis? (It's slowed down
quite a bit, in part because of changes to immigration laws. There's a longer
waiting list now, too, to bring immediate family members over, Groth said.)

Groth told them that one of the biggest complaints she hears from her
non-Bosnian friends is the perception that Bosnians are a bit standoffish.

It's really just that sometimes they can be insecure about fitting in, she said.

"Americans may misinterpret it as being snobby," she said.

That made sense to Eileen Heath, the secretary of the Bayless School Board and a
respiratory therapist with a growing Bosnian clientele. She felt all eyes on her
when she walked into a Bosnian bakery once. But now she realizes that perhaps
people were just being shy and not sure how to act around her.

Heath has also been trying to get Bosnian parents more involved in the schools,
but it's been difficult, she acknowledges. She makes a point of introducing
herself at sporting events where she often sees them. She hopes this class will
give her more insight and enable her to make better inroads.

"When I'm sitting there making decisions about them, I need to know a little bit
more about them," she said. "I want to know what drum they beat from."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Soraya Rivadeneira, of O'Fallon, Mo. (right), talks with
Dijana Groth (not pictured), owner of Novella Book Store, as Joseph Wagner of
Pevely, and his mother, Jennifer Wagner of Lemay, look at books about Bosnian
culture during a class about Bosnia offered by the University of Missouri-St.
Louis. Sarah Conard | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

How many Americans could pass this test? New citizenship exam tests basic civic
concepts rather than memorization.

BYLINE: By Eunice Moscoso Cox News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Do you know the name of the current speaker of the House? Or why the United
States flag has 13 stripes? Or the role of the president's Cabinet?

If you want to become a U.S. citizen, you must learn the answers to these and 97
other questions in a new citizenship test unveiled Thursday by the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Emilio Gonzalez, director of the agency, said the new questions are designed to
be more profound and test knowledge of basic civic concepts essential to being
an American.

"The questions are more about meaning and understanding than rote memorization,"
he said.

In a pilot program in 10 cities, 142 questions were tested by volunteer
immigrant applicants. The questions that showed higher failure rates and did not
include basic historical and civic concepts were either changed to make the
language clearer or tossed out, agency officials said.

Several questions ask for more meaningful answers than the current exam. For
example, the old test asks, "What country did we fight during the Revolutionary
War?" The new test changes the question to, "Why did the colonists fight the
British?"

However, a few questions on the new test appear to be simpler. For example, in
the current exam, immigrants are asked to name the two U.S. senators from their
state and in the new test, only one.

Alfonso Aguilar, chief of the Office of Citizenship, said the test is designed
to have a high success rate and includes fundamental knowledge of U.S.
government and history.

Immigrants have to study the 100 questions for the test. When they take it,
however, they will be asked only 10 questions and have to answer six correctly
to pass. They also have to read a sentence in English and write a sentence given
to them.

In the pilot program, 92.4 percent of immigrants passed the citizenship test on
the first try. Currently, the average is 84 percent.

Gonzalez said that the higher success rate resulted from immigrants having to
study harder to answer the more meaningful questions.

Fred Tsao, policy director at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights and an expert on naturalization tests, said he was disappointed with the
new questions because they included more complex concepts that are difficult to
teach.

He said the new test - and the recent fee increase for citizenship applications
- constitute "a significant obstacle" to many immigrants obtaining U.S.
citizenship. Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said that many of the topics covered by
the new test are the same as in the current exam.

But, he added, the new test includes new areas, including questions about U.S.
geography and Cabinet-level positions in the federal government.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
think tank that supports stronger immigration controls, said the new test is "a
good thing" and a step in the right direction to make sure legal immigrants
assimilate into American culture.

"This definitely seems to be a sensible move. They're getting their act
together, at least in this regard," he said.

The new test will be put into effect in one year, to give immigrant advocate
groups, English as a Second Language schools and other adult education centers
time to develop new materials to prepare immigrants for the test.

The government spent $6.5 million over seven years to redevelop the citizenship
test.

---

1. Under our Constitution, some powers belong to the states. What is one power
of the states?

2. Why does the flag have 13 stripes? 3. Who was president during World War I?
4. Who was president during the Great Depression and World War II?

ANSWERS INSIDE | A12

---

ANSWERS FROM PAGE A1

1. o Provide schooling and education o Provide protection (police) o Provide
safety (fire departments) o Give a drivers license o Approve zoning and land use

2. o Because there are 13 original colonies o Because the stripes represent the
original colonies

3. Woodrow Wilson 4. Franklin Roosevelt

---

Take the test online

STLtoday.com/links o How do you think you'd do on the citizenship test? Try your
hand at 10 questions in our online interactive graphic. Or, download a .pdf with
all 100 questions - and their answers.

Talk

STLtoday.com/talk How would you do in the citizenship test? Be honest, but talk
about it in the Talk of the Day blog.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

OASIS IN BLOOM FROM THE SUBCONTINENT TO THE SUBURBS LOCAL JUMP o NUMBER OF
PEOPLE FROM INDIA, OTHER NATIONS GROWS FAST

BYLINE: By Aisha Sultan o ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1105 words

DATELINE: BALLWIN


When Imtiaz Ahmad moved his family from a nearby apartment into a crisp new
subdivision in this west St. Louis County suburb, his reasons were pretty
typical. He was looking for good schools and a new house.

Then, he started to meet the neighbors: Zia Sulaiman, Sameena Ahmed, Gohar Khan.

"Oh, my God," he thought. "Everyone is Indian and Pakistani."

And nearly everyone is.

Spring Trails is an enclave of 57 homes, and more than 90 percent of the
homeowners are "desi," meaning from the Asian subcontinent. The word "desi,"
derived from Hindi, has come to mean all things South Asian.

Ahmad, who emigrated from India more than a decade ago, didn't expect to give
his children an Indian upbringing in Missouri. And while his family lives in a
predominantly Asian neighborhood, their experience has been uniquely American -
a commingling of diverse cultures and religions within their shared ethnicity.

Traditional hubs for South Asian immigrants have long been established in New
York, California, Chicago and Houston, but a more recent wave of desi
immigration has spread across the Midwest. In metro St. Louis, a region largely
defined as black or white, there is an emerging shade of brown amid the larger
Hispanic and Bosnian immigrant populations.

The most recent U.S. Census figures showed about 13,800 foreign-born Asian
Indians in the St. Louis area last year, a 67 percent increase since 2000. The
population of smaller South Asian communities, such as Pakistani, Bangladeshi,
Sri Lankan and Nepalese, are more difficult to estimate, though local
associations say their memberships have spiked in recent years.

Ghazala Hayat, executive director of the Pakistani American Association of St.
Louis, says the group's membership has nearly doubled in the past decade, to
about 500 families.

"It's just ballooned," she said.

She remembers having to mail-order certain spices in the 1980s to cook Pakistani
dishes. Now, she can shop at four different stores within a three-mile stretch
of Manchester Road.

CULTURAL OASIS

Sameena Ahmed was raised in India, a place steeped in culture that exalts family
relationships. She longed for that sense of belonging when she immigrated to the
area nine years ago. The Spring Trails subdivision connected with her - the
Asian languages, the shared foods, common holidays and importance of being
neighborly.

"It's very hard to find the same culture, people from your background," she
said.

There were adjustments when Ahmed first came to America - the isolation from her
family and others' unfamiliarity with her culture and religion. In Spring
Trails, however, Ahmed's neighbors know she cannot join them for lunch during
the month of Ramadan. They understand when she mixes Urdu phrases in
conversation. Here, the bright and colorful ethnic clothes she wears are
ordinary, not exotic.

"It's like finding an oasis in a desert," Ahmed said.

The first wave of South Asians arrived in St. Louis about 30 years ago. They
were primarily doctors and engineers who settled mostly in West County, said Ann
Rynearson, director of culture and community at the International Institute.

In the late 1990s and early 2000s, a much larger wave of information technology
professionals landed jobs here or came to study or do research at local
universities.

"It was the dot.com boom that really turned the tables," she said.

The growing prominence of South Asians was underscored by two recent mentions:
one of KSDK's newest television reporters, Jasmine Huda, was declared the city's
most eligible bachelorette by Forbes.com; and MEMC Electronics chief executive
Nabeel Gareeb, originally from Pakistan, was named one of the area's highest
paid executives last year, pulling in $54 million with stock options.

Huda, who grew up in Ladue and whose parents emigrated from West Bengal, is the
area's only South Asian television reporter.

"It says something about changing times here," she said.

TRUST AND COMFORT

Imtiaz Ahmad has a doctorate in biochemistry and works for a bioscience company.
When his niece died in India last year, he took three weeks off so his family
could go stay with relatives.

His neighbor, Ahmed Elmesky, immediately came over and said he would take care
of the house. Not only did Elmesky check the mail, cut the grass and pick up
papers, but he also paid bills. Ahmad later repaid him.

"There's a level of trust," said Ahmad, who doesn't think twice about giving a
neighbor the code to open his garage.

These sorts of South Asian enclaves are scattered around Maryland Heights,
Ballwin, Eureka, Town and Country and St. Charles County. But they also are much
more integrated, with Christians, Muslims and Hindus, than the typical
neighborhoods in India and Pakistan. Increasingly, Arab, Bosnian and East Asian
families are moving into the same areas.

In Spring Trails, women in saris push strollers in the street, visiting
neighbors wearing hijab, the Islamic head covering. They chat in Urdu, Telegu or
one of a dozen or so languages spoken here.

When Malena Valdeabella, 28, a white resident, sees a gathering on the street,
she smiles, waves and says, "Hello."

The response, she feels, isn't always as welcoming. Valdeabella was raised in
Iowa and is one of the handful of non-Asians in the neighborhood.

"I want to feel like I belong," she said. "I don't necessarily feel that vibe
yet."

Vikas Sethi, who is Hindu and originally from India, knows that feeling. When
his family lived in another, predominantly white neighborhood, he would think
twice about what to say at the block parties.

"I felt like an outsider, in a way," he said.

Now, as part of the majority in Spring Trails, he straddles the mini-divisions
within the South Asian world. Even among south Asians, there can be awkward
moments.

For Hindus who observe strict vegetarianism, a subdivision barbecue, like one
hosted by several Muslim families this summer, can be off-putting, Sethi said.

"There are people who don't like to interact," he said. "It's an unspoken
thing."

On one side of Sethi's house, his neighbor is an Indian Muslim. On the other,
it's a Pakistani Muslim. Some Indian Hindus would be uncomfortable, he says,
given the stereotypes and hostility between the two countries.

But Sethi grew up among Muslims back home in India and made friends quickly. His
wife asks her neighbors when Ramadan is ending because she looks forward to the
sweets they share in the celebration following the month of fasting.

The latest headlines from India and Pakistan report about shrines being bombed
and religious strife. The uniqueness of Spring Trails' shared celebrations is
not lost on Sethi.

"Back home," he said, "it would be very different."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; MAP
 PHOTO - Kanakamma Jolepalem gets the mail with her 2-year-old
great-granddaughter, Nithya Bollineni, this month in Ballwin. The bright and
colorful ethnic clothes of South Asia are ordinary, not exotic, in the Spring
Trails subdivision. "It's like finding an oasis in a desert," a resident says.
Christian Gooden | Post-Dispatch  MAP - SOUTH ASIA

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ANALYSIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Senate will take up Dream Act; opponents call it sleeper amnesty

BYLINE: By Deirdre Shesgreen and Megan Boehnke Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate is scheduled to begin debate on a controversial immigration bill
today that could stave off the looming deportation of a Missouri college student
and open avenues to citizenship for her and thousands of others.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., is the chief sponsor of the Dream Act, a bill that
would provide an opportunity to win legal status for students who grew up in the
U.S. and graduated from high school here, among other criteria.

The bill would apply to kids who came here before turning 16, are under 30 and
have lived in the U.S. for at least five years. If they have graduated from high
school, served two years in the military or spent two years in college, they
could apply for permanent residence, under the bill.

The Senate action takes place just months after a broader immigration reform
bill collapsed amid a fierce nationwide debate on the role of illegal residents
in the American economy and society.

Durbin's bill sparked a similarly emotional clash Tuesday.

Critics derided the measure as sleeper amnesty that would open the floodgates to
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. But Durbin said it would help a
small number of accomplished young people who came here as babies or toddlers
with their families, who know no other home, and who have overcome poverty and
other obstacles to better themselves.

Exhibit A in Durbin's case for the bill is Marie Gonzalez, 21, of Jefferson
City. She is a junior at Westminster College in Fulton.

Her parents brought her here from Costa Rica when she was five years old, but
they have since been deported. Gonzalez was allowed to stay under a temporary
reprieve from the Department of Homeland Security but she faces deportation in
June 30. She would be 18 credit hours short of graduation.

Gonzalez said the bill would give "me a chance to give back to the country, so I
don't see how that's such a major problem."

Durbin's proposal faces a steep climb against opponents who say it is a trojan
horse that would reward illegal behavior and is open to abuse.

In a statement, Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., said: "Part of the American
dream is that if you play by the rules and work hard you can get ahead, but the
Dream Act rewards people who broke the rules and puts them ahead in the
citizenship line of those who respected our laws."

Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said she is "torn" over the measure.

Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., supports the bill.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Gonzalez

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Crackdown feasts on motorists

BYLINE: By Virginia Young POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1292 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


IMMIGRATION CHECKS o Many held by patrol were stopped for traffic violations;
more than half were passengers.

RACIAL PROFILING FEARS o Critics charge that the patrol's strategy could lead to
discrimination against Hispanics

---

The state's crackdown on illegal immigrants has led to 52 arrests in the first
six weeks, with most caught in routine traffic stops.

More than half of those detained were passengers. One had a flat tire. Others
were pulled over for speeding or failure to use a turn signal properly.

While many have hailed Gov. Matt Blunt's get-tough policy, critics say the
Missouri Highway Patrol's even more aggressive strategy of checking residency
during traffic stops could result in racial profiling.

"If you're being told from on high that we're going to stop illegal immigration,
law enforcement is going to look twice at someone who looks Hispanic," said
Jorge Riopedre, secretary of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan
St. Louis. "It's only human nature."

Tony Rothert, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Eastern
Missouri, said the Highway Patrol doesn't seem to have a "coherent policy" for
deciding whom to arrest.

"I've never heard of anyone who is not Hispanic being taken in for failing to
use the turn signal," he said.

In launching the stepped-up enforcement on Aug. 27, Blunt pointed to an illegal
immigrant from Peru who has been accused of committing a triple murder in New
Jersey while free on bail on a rape charge. Blunt said an earlier immigration
check could have prevented those murders. He directed the Highway Patrol to run
residency checks on everyone troopers lock up.

The patrol is going further. It encourages officers to run computerized
immigration checks on motorists who lack sufficient IDs - primarily Missouri
drivers licenses issued after 2005. But exceptions can be made if the officer
personally knows the driver.

"Our people are trying to do everything they can to make sure people can legally
operate vehicles," patrol Maj. Brent Johnson said. "If something bad were to
happen, the question would be, 'Why didn't you check their status?'"

That question came up last month, after an illegal immigrant ran his SUV into
diners at a Clayton restaurant. The driver, Sergio Lopez, 23, had been cited for
several traffic offenses in a previous crash in St. Louis, but his residency
apparently had not been checked.

The Post-Dispatch filed a public records request to obtain information about
those detained since Aug. 27. The results showed that relatively few were
charged with crimes other than immigration violations.

More than half - 31 out of 52 - were passengers in vehicles stopped by the
patrol. One was gambling at a casino.

A few of the detainees were charged with serious crimes, including two arrested
on suspicion of driving while intoxicated. Records show that six people were
arrested in a stealing case and two were picked up as part of a salvage yard
investigation, though the records don't offer details. The patrol also declined
to provide details.

Blunt's anti-illegal immigration stance has angered Hispanic leaders across the
state, but he continues to defend the move. He even took another step on
Wednesday, sending a letter to county prosecutors saying he supports efforts to
enforce a state law against illegal immigration.

The law says employers found employing illegal immigrants can be ruled
ineligible for state tax credits, tax abatements or loans.

"I am confident that you have the power to use this law at your discretion,"
Blunt wrote.

'VOLUNTARY RETURN'

Tracking the arrests of illegal immigrants the last several weeks is complicated
by the secrecy that surrounds immigration enforcement. The patrol usually leaves
detainees at a county jail that doubles as a federal holding center.

The detainees at times are not held long. Those who are from Mexico and have no
criminal records often are given the option of a quick "voluntary return" with
no charges, said Carl Rusnok, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Immigration has become a hot political topic in many states, with Republicans
and Democrats aligning behind initiatives such as penalties for hiring
undocumented workers.

Some have pushed for agreements that allow state officers to make immigration
arrests and handle deportation paperwork, under federal supervision. Blunt has
applied to be the seventh state with such authority, joining Alabama, Arizona,
Colorado, Florida, Georgia and Massachusetts.

If Blunt's request is granted, the state will send 25 officers to five weeks of
training, probably in Georgia.

Even without such authority, supporters say, Missouri is on solid legal ground
in policing residency.

A 2005 U.S. Supreme Court decision gave law enforcement broad authority to check
immigration status, said Kris W. Kobach, who teaches law at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City.

"This is basic information, like asking a person his name," said Kobach, who
served as chief adviser on immigration to former Attorney General John Ashcroft.
"As long as it's uniform policy that applies in all situations - like a person
being arrested or all people being stopped for a traffic violation - then the
possibility of any kind of profiling is very low."

In the six weeks after Blunt issued his directive, state and local law
enforcement officers ran 1,136 immigration checks, according to the Missouri
Information Analysis Center, which is part of the Missouri Department of Public
Safety.

One officer, Patrol Corp. R.A. Seaton of Troop C arrested nearly half of the
detainees - 25 out of 52 - in two traffic stops on Interstate 70 in Warren
County.

In the first case, Omar Gomez-Ibarra, 24, was stopped for improper use of a turn
signal. The 1997 Chevy Astro van also had a broken luggage shell on top, and
items were falling out, said a spokesman for Troop C, which covers St. Louis and
surrounding counties.

The driver had an ID card that appeared to be fraudulent, and the other
occupants - seven men and four juveniles - had no identification, said the
spokesman, Sgt. Al Nothum. The 12 were taken to the Montgomery County Jail,
according to the patrol.

Rusnok, the ICE spokesman, said four of the men were deported, three were held
as material witnesses, and the driver was turned over to U.S. marshals for
prosecution. The juveniles were transferred to another facility.

Seaton declined to comment. Nothum defended the officer's decision to pull over
the van, saying, "We can't have people going down the highway with stuff falling
out of their vehicle."

In Seaton's second case, Miriam Castillo, 22, was pulled over for what patrol
reports describe only as a "traffic violation." Seaton called immigration
officials, who told him to detain Castillo and her 12 passengers, the patrol
said.

Johnson, the patrol major, said detainees could have dangerous drug dealing,
human smuggling or "sex ring" records that aren't apparent, because the state
doesn't track that information once federal agents take charge of a case.

In some cases, bad luck seems to be the main reason people are caught. Consider
the two men who were arrested on Highway 65 in Taney County when patrol Cpl.
Gary Riggs stopped to help them with a flat tire.

Riggs said the men, who worked at an area restaurant, admitted they were in the
country illegally. Both men were taken to the Taney County Jail. One of the men
was the vehicle's owner, Jose L. Martinez-Pimentel, 20, who was charged with
failing to transfer ownership of his vehicle.

The charge was the result of his neglecting to sign the back of his title.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/talk - Is Blunt's residency program working, or missing the mark?
Give your view in Talk of the Day.

Get more

STLtoday.com/links View a list of immigration arrests and the cause.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2007



CORRECTION: Due to an editing error, a front page story Thursday gave an
incorrect first name for Missouri Highway Patrol Maj. Bret Johnson.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Helping Marie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C12

LENGTH: 628 words


One day last week, Marie Gonzalez of Jefferson City found herself sitting in the
gallery of the U.S. Senate and staring down to the Senate floor at her own
picture.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., stood in front of it, begging his fellow senators to
help Ms. Gonzalez and other young people innocently caught up in America's mess
of an immigration system.

"He was talking about my case," Ms. Gonzalez told us afterward. "I got all
choked up."

Sen. Durbin was arguing - in vain, it turned out - for his American Dream Act.
The bill would have allowed undocumented immigrants who were brought here as
children to stay in America. They would have to have arrived before age 16,
remained for five years, graduated from high school, be of "good moral
character" and have no criminal record.

"Don't take your anger on illegal immigration out on children who have nothing
to say about this," Mr. Durbin pleaded with his colleagues. "They were brought
to this country. . . . They've beaten the odds. We need them."

He got only 52 of the 60 votes he needed to shut off debate on the bill; among
those voting against it were Missouri's two senators, Republican Christopher S.
"Kit" Bond and Democrat Claire McCaskill. Mr. Bond's vote was predictable; his
party is pandering to anti-immigration hardliners. Ms. McCaskill's vote was a
disappointment. Thoughtful politicians, including Mr. Durbin and his Illinois
colleague, Democrat Sen. Barack Obama, can tell the difference between adults
who flout the law and kids who had no choice in the matter.

Ms. Gonzalez was 5 years old when her parents came to Jefferson City from Costa
Rica on a visitor's visa. They stayed on illegally after the visa expired, but,
of course, little Marie had no say in that.

Her father ran a restaurant in the state capital and later got a state job as a
courier. Marie went to school, pledged allegiance to the flag every morning and
grew up as an American. She ran track at Helias High School, and fellow students
elected her to the Homecoming Court.

Then in 2002, when Marie still was in high school, someone snitched on Marie's
father. He was fired, and what was then the Immigration and Naturalization
Service began deportation proceedings.

The people of Jefferson City rallied around the Gonzalez family. About 1,800
people signed a petition asking that the Gonzalezes be allowed to stay, but
Marie's parents were sent back to Costa Rica. Marie was allowed to stay
temporarily, thanks to the intervention of Sen. Bond, former Republican Sen. Jim
Talent and Rep. Ike Skelton, D-Lexington. Marie Gonzalez is now a scholarship
student at Westminster College in Fulton. Her latest temporary extension expires
next June.

Marie is an American kid every way but legally. She speaks perfect English with
a flat Midwest accent. Her Spanish is weaker. And the thought of deportation
scares her.

Last May, she told a Senate committee considering Sen. Durbin's bill, "No matter
what, I will always consider the United States of America my home. I love this
country. Only in America would a person like me have the opportunity to tell my
story to people like you."

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the Dream bill would have applied
to fewer than 100,000 immigrants. Many, including Marie Gonzalez, can barely
remember their native lands. To deport them would be cruel.

Opponents labeled the bill "amnesty" for illegal immigrants. Nonsense. A
5-year-old accompanying her family hasn't committed a crime willfully. This bill
wasn't giving these young people amnesty; it was giving them a break.

There are 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, and we're in
an increasingly rancorous debate over what to do about them. In the meantime,
there's no reason to punish innocents such as Marie Gonzalez.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our View  |  Immigration OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1550 words


Fix immigration system, but don't hurt the children

Regarding the editorial "Helping Marie" (Oct. 29): The pursuit of happiness is
one of the inalienable rights given in our Declaration of Independence. The
Statue of Liberty used to stand as a testament to our belief in that right.
Today, that right has been obfuscated by a broken immigration system that would
have us deport our brothers and sisters such as Marie Gonzalez or, at best,
leave Ms. Gonzalez in constant fear of deportation from the only place she has
ever called home, the United States.

As an American, I am ashamed of the flaws in our immigration system, and even
more ashamed that we have chosen to take the moral low road in denying people
who have lived in the United States since childhood access to the same basic
rights and freedoms that we as citizens take for granted every day. As a
Missourian, I am disappointed in our senators for failing to provide leadership
in finding a solution to fix our broken system.

Jason Kennedy | University City

American ingenuity

Regarding "Free meds? Battle heats up here" (Oct. 28): There is no question that
offering low-cost prescription drugs has helped Wal-Mart increase sales in other
areas. I appreciate the savings very much, and my buying has increased at
Wal-Mart significantly since the program was announced.

Will it work for Schnucks? You bet!

Isn't it great that the high cost of many prescriptions has been coming down
because of good-old American ingenuity and not anything the government did?

Dale Jones | Manchester

Unlawful redistribution

In the editorial "Dubious achievement" (Oct. 3), the Post-Dispatch missed the
point of the agriculture bill. All the paper wants is more of the taxpayers'
money redistributed, either in farm subsidies or food stamps, or some other
cause the writers deem worthy. I've read the Constitution again to be sure I
didn't miss something. Nowhere does it say that the federal government can take
the taxpayers' money and redistribute it to buy votes and campaign
contributions. But that's what happens every year.

Now we have U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel, D-N.Y., talking about the largest tax
increase in history and presidential candidate Sen. Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y.,
bound and determined to pass out money to everybody in $1,000 or $5,000 chunks.
None of these people is talking about cutting what amounts to unconstitutional
spending. The only people ignored in this mess are the American taxpayers.

Bob Pugh | Kirkwood

Help families buy food

The editorial "Dubious achievement" (Oct. 30), about the need for additional
government funding for food stamps and emergency food in the farm bill on the
floor of the Senate, was compelling. Sadly, the recommendations that came out of
the Senate Agriculture Committee don't go far enough to solve the skyrocketing
needs of food pantries. The farm bill should add another $1 million - for a
total of $5 million - to help food pantries, with the money made available by a
limit of $250,000 on commodity subsidies to farmers. That would improve the
plight of the poor and hungry.

In Missouri, the top 10 percent of the 66,339 wealthy landowners and big-scale
farmers receive an average annual payment of $49,640. The average annual food
stamp benefit is $960. Obviously, that major inequity needs to be remedied.

A step in that direction would be for Missouri Senators Christopher "Kit" Bond
and Claire McCaskill to offer and support amendments. The food needs of the poor
are best resolved through adjustments in the government payments that help the
poor buy food for their families, not by increasing the amount of funds scraped
together in local communities by food banks.

I plead with our senators and all their colleagues to not give all the gravy to
the already-rich while the poor don't even get a full portion of potatoes.

Paul H. Strege | Affton

Devastating subsidies

The editorial "Dubious achievement" (Oct. 30) was an eye-opener. I was amazed to
learn the huge amount - $16 billion a year - paid in subsidies, chiefly to
farmers who don't need it. There is no way to justify this. We must trust that
Sens. Christopher S. Bond and Claire McCaskill will do what is desperately
needed: curb farm commodity payments to the largest and wealthiest farmers. At
the very least, the Senate should vote to limit payments to farmers at a
generous $250,000.

In the Senate Agriculture Committee, an amendment would have added $1.6 billion
to the food stamp program by making a small cut in direct payments to farmers.
Out of 21 committee members, only four senators voted in favor of it.

If our senators think reducing hunger is a priority, they must support
amendments on the full Senate floor that will boost vital nutrition programs and
curb farm commodity payments to the largest and wealthiest farmers and absentee
landlords. Our subsidy program is devastating to the rural communities, the
hungry in our own country and the farmers in developing countries.

Gayle Lyles | St. Peters

Benefit of doubt is doomed

I disagree with the editorial "Eschew obfuscation" (Nov. 2). I could not believe
my eyes when I read the last line: "Whatever his tortured language, he deserves
the benefit of the doubt."

Hah! Give any of those people nominated by the Bush regime an inch, and they
take a mile. Not one of the Bush administration's choices for any office should
be given the benefit of doubt. Time has proven over and over again that taking
that course of action is our doom.

Any person who is nominated for attorney general by this corrupt and inept
administration is someone the administration trusts to keep all the evil secrets
intact. So that person must not be given any benefit of doubt. A nominee should
be as transparent as plastic wrap when being interviewed for the top job in the
Justice Department.

Judge Michael Mukasey must speak the truth and tell America how he defines
torture. It is our right to know before he is in a position of power. Not
afterward, when torture has been inflicted.

If Mr. Mukasey does not speak with truth about torture and other important
matters, then he is not the person who will stand up and do what is right for
America.

Rusti Levin | University City

Tibbets' successful mission

My father, Ed Rose, sent this letter on Oct. 24, 1945, to his church: "Our camp
is located about 35 miles north of San Fernando North right on the beach. Of
course the first two weeks were occupied in camp construction but then we
settled down to some very intensive and important training. It seems our outfit
was part of the task force which was going to invade Japan. In fact the Combat
Team which we were part of was scheduled to go in on some desolate stretch of
coast on D-3 just as a feint. However the war ended and so did our extensive
training."

In my father's other letters, there is no mention of where he was, for obvious
reasons. However, because of the bravery of Brig. Gen. Paul Tibbets, my dad came
home. Because of Mr. Tibbets, children were born to returning veterans who got
jobs, married, worked, had children, served their church communities and the
communities around them.

They told their children some of what they saw, but not all. One returning
veteran, while making an oral history of his time on Iwo Jima, asked his wife to
leave the house and visit with neighbors while he talked to the historian. After
50 years, he still did not want her to hear about what he had experienced.

After the death of Mr. Tibbets, I thought I'd remind readers of the "rest of the
story" about the successful mission of the Enola Gay before they excoriate the
man and his mission.

Sharon Rose Niethe | St. Louis

Disregarding dissent

With the invasion of Iraq, the media (including the Post-Dispatch) embraced the
embedding of reporters in the military with rules and limits imposed by the
Pentagon. Day after day, stories ran. Now that most Americans disapprove of the
war in Iraq, the media (including the Post-Dispatch) are silent.

On Oct. 28, tens of thousands of Americans marched in 11 American cities against
the war. On Oct. 29, the Post-Dispatch relegated coverage of this to one picture
on page A2.

I don't expect the Post-Dispatch to embed a reporter in the peace movement
(although that would be fascinating). But I was disappointed that it was not
important enough for the Post-Dispatch to use a wire service story and put it on
the front page. Of course, it might have knocked off the front page the story
about Lindenwood University recruiting beauty pageant queens. I could have lived
with that.

Newspapers play a vital role in preserving our democracy by educating the public
and challenging the status quo. Now, if the Post-Dispatch and other newspapers
can't be bothered to report on this building public outrage to the war, I fear
for our democracy.

Ben Senturia | University City

Stop the hate

Regarding "Jury wallops church that pickets soldiers' funerals" (Nov. 1): It is
about time that federal and state legislation is beginning to ban hate groups
such as Fred Phelps and his Westboro Baptist Church from demonstrating at
funerals. It is unfortunate that the legislation did not begin until funerals
for heterosexual soldiers were being picketed. Funerals for homosexuals have
been picketed for years by the "Rev." Phelps and his clan with no laws to stop
the hate.

Phil Kuhlman | St. Peters

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Suburbs attract Hispanics Like immigrants before them, many from Mexico seek
quiet areas with good schools.

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Matthew Fernandes and Mark
Learman of the Post-Dispatch News Research Department contributed to this
report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES COUNTY


Just a few miles from some of the county's newest and most expensive homes, the
alphabet lessons begin promptly at 7 p.m. in a fluorescent-lit classroom inside
First Baptist Church of O'Fallon.

"We are going to go over our ABCs here," says O'Fallon resident Irma Ordonez to
her class of seven Hispanic students. Most are adults, but some are as young as
10 and toting stuffed animals.

To Ordonez, a retired kindergarten teacher and a seventh-generation American,
teaching English to Hispanic immigrants is all about taking "baby steps."

"A. Aaaah. Apple," she begins.

The challenges of integrating America's growing Hispanic immigrant population
isn't playing out just in the cities anymore. Mirroring a national trend, St.
Charles County is one of hundreds of suburban areas in the country that's
becoming home to Hispanic immigrants who must struggle to learn English in a
place with few bilingual services.

"When I came here seven years ago, there were very few Hispanic people, but now
you see Hispanic people most everywhere," Ordonez said.

The suburbs are now providing a steady stream of food service, cleaning,
construction and landscaping jobs to immigrants, many of whom come from rural,
central Mexico. Others are also moving from cities as far away as New York and
Los Angeles because they want what many others want out of the Midwest: a quiet,
safer life.

"What's happening is not much different than what happened in Missouri 100 years
ago," said Domingo Martinez, coordinator of the Cambio Center at the University
of Missouri-Columbia, a think tank looking at immigration trends and their
impact in the state. "They were German and they came for cheap land and looking
for a good place to raise their kids."

Instead of near Cherokee Street in south St. Louis, Hispanic immigrants are now
more likely to be settling in smaller, more spread-out pockets in the St. Louis
region. These include areas such as St. Ann and Hazelwood in north St. Louis
County.

But many are also going farther out to places such as St. Charles, O'Fallon and
Wentzville, said Joel Jennings, an adjunct professor at St. Louis University who
is mapping the immigrant Hispanic population in the region. Some are going even
farther into Lincoln and Warren counties to work farming and landscaping jobs,
he said.

Recent U.S. Census Bureau statistics put the growth rate of Hispanics in St.
Charles County from 2000 to 2006 at about 68 percent, for a total of just over
7,000 people. Statistically, that amounts to about 2 percent of St. Charles'
nearly 339,000 people.

Jennings said that the number of Hispanics in the county is probably double the
census estimate, and that most of those additional residents who aren't being
counted are working-class Mexican immigrants, many of them illegal.

The state's estimated 161,000 Hispanics still make up only 2 percent of
Missouri's population. However, every county in Missouri - rural, urban or
suburban - now has a Hispanic population, Martinez said.

According to census figures, the most marked increases in the St. Louis region
are in the suburbs in places that until a few years ago were nearly all white.
In St. Charles County there are now two Hispanics per every 100 people - up from
about 1.5 people per 100 in 2000.

In that same time period the Hispanic population in Lincoln County grew by about
91 percent to almost 850. In Warren County, the number more than doubled, to 650
people. Jefferson County also had a 31 percent increase, to 2,630 people. The
Metro East saw marked increases, with a 24 percent growth rate in St. Clair
County. That county has the largest estimated Hispanic population, nearly 7,000,
or about 2.7 percent of the nearly 261,000 people there. Madison County also
grew by 1,214 Hispanics, an increase of about 31 percent. In Monroe County, with
450 Hispanics, the population also more than doubled.

St. Louis County, which has seen a steady flow of immigrants into northern areas
such as Hazelwood over the past several years, had a nearly 33 percent growth in
its Hispanic population, to more than 19,300.

Although the Hispanic population also increased in the city of St. Louis to
nearly 9,000, the number of Hispanics relative to its population stayed nearly
the same at 2.5 Hispanics per 100 people.

This new suburban population puts new demands on localities that lack most
simple bilingual services. Many Hispanic immigrants have difficulty in everyday
places such as banks, license bureaus, police departments and even doctors'
offices.

Much of the slack is being taken up by area churches. Currently about 20
churches in the region are offering religious services in Spanish, and several
are developing programs to teach English as a second language. The programs are
run mainly by volunteers who not only teach, but drive students to and from
classes, said Patrick Regalado, a pastor with First Baptist Church of O'Fallon
and head of the Hispanic Pastors and Leaders of the Greater St. Louis Area.

"I see the county is not ready," said Regalado, who was born in Ecuador. "They
don't have the equipment and resources to face these situations."

Even getting the word out about programs is tricky, because the region's
Spanish-language radio station starts to falter at the eastern edge of St.
Charles County.

Lupe Plaza, a Head Start caseworker at the St. Charles branch of the children's
service agency Youth In Need, works with many Hispanic families. Her agency
recently hired a third bilingual caseworker based in Wentzville to handle the
demand for Spanish-speaking home visitors.

Plaza said she dealt with a tightly knit, insulated and hardworking community
that's committed to making life better for their children.

"They have such a strong work ethic. It doesn't matter what you ask them to do,
they'll do it," Plaza said, noting that many of her families juggle three and
sometimes more jobs to make ends meet.

Plaza and other members of a growing Mexican middle class in St. Charles County
have different views on immigration, but all of them agree that people have a
tendency to assume that because someone is poor and Hispanic, he or she is in
the country illegally. They are asking for tolerance and fairness - especially
on work sites.

"The reason we're all here is we want a better opportunity. We want a better
life for our kids and our families," said Gloria Garcia as she tended the cash
register at her family's grocery, Tienda Mexicana El Caporal, off First Capitol
Drive in St. Charles. Garcia's family store offers everything from an
increasingly popular lunch counter with Mexican favorites, to colorful votive
candles, piñatas, cowboy boots, CDs of Hispanic pop stars and ballooning bags of
chili peppers. The store is a slice of home for many, she said.

"You have to have the chilies," she said of the store. "We have to have the
spice."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - NEW NEIGHBORS, NEW NEEDS Head Start home visitor Lupe Plaza (left) of
St. Charles helps Melissa Garcia, 4, with her reading last month as Melissa's
mother, Cristina Garcia, listens. Plaza works at the St. Charles branch of the
children's service agency Youth In Need, which recently hired a third
Spanish-speaking caseworker. Garcia, a native of Mexico who has lived in St.
Charles for nine years, says she and her husband chose St. Charles for
quality-of-life issues. "It is beautiful out here," said Garcia, who says she
feels safe and likes the quality of education for her children.  Laurie Skrivan
| Post-Dispatch  GRAPHIC - THE GROWING HISPANIC POPULATION IN THE ST. LOUIS
REGION Compiled by Mark Learman | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hispanics seek the good life in suburbs Like immigrants before them, families
from Mexico seek quiet areas with good schools. Services can't always keep pace.

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Matthew Fernandes and Mark
Learman of the Post-Dispatch News Research Department contributed to this
report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES COUNTY


Just a few miles from some of the county's newest and most expensive homes, the
alphabet lessons begin promptly at 7 p.m. in a fluorescent-lit classroom inside
First Baptist Church of O'Fallon.

"We are going to go over our ABCs here," says O'Fallon resident Irma Ordonez to
her class of seven Hispanic students. Most are adults, but some are as young as
10 and toting stuffed animals.

To Ordonez, a retired kindergarten teacher and a seventh-generation American,
teaching English and its correct pronunciation to Hispanic immigrants is all
about taking "baby steps."

"A. Aaaah. Apple," she begins.

The challenges of integrating America's growing Hispanic immigrant population
isn't playing out just in the cities anymore. Mirroring a national trend, St.
Charles County is one of hundreds of suburban areas in the country that's
becoming home to Hispanic immigrants who must struggle to learn English in a
place with few bilingual services.

"When I came here seven years ago, there were very few Hispanic people, but now
you see Hispanic people most everywhere," Ordonez said.

The suburbs are now providing a steady stream of food service, cleaning,
construction and landscaping jobs to immigrants, many of whom come from rural,
central Mexico. Others are also moving from cities as far away as New York and
Los Angeles because they want what many others want out of the Midwest: a quiet,
safer life.

"What's happening is not much different than what happened in Missouri 100 years
ago," said Domingo Martinez, coordinator of the Cambio Center of the University
of Missouri, a think-tank looking at immigration trends and their impact in the
state. "They were German and they came for cheap land and looking for a good
place to raise their kids."

Instead of near Cherokee Street in south St. Louis, Hispanic immigrants are now
more likely to be settling in smaller, more spread-out pockets in the St. Louis
region. These include areas such as St. Ann and Hazelwood in north St. Louis
County.

But many are also going farther out to places such as St. Charles, O'Fallon and
Wentzville, said Joel Jennings, an adjunct professor at St. Louis University who
is mapping the immigrant Hispanic population in the region. Some are going even
farther into Lincoln and Warren counties to work farming and landscaping jobs
familiar to them, he said.

Recent U.S. Census statistics put the growth rate of Hispanics in St. Charles
County from 2000 to 2006 at about 68 percent, for a total of just over 7,000
people. Statistically, that amounts to about 2 percent of St. Charles' nearly
339,000 people.

Jennings said that the number of Hispanics in the county is probably double the
census estimate, and that most of those additional residents who aren't being
counted are working-class Mexican immigrants, many of them illegal.

The state's estimated 161,000 Hispanics still make up only 2 percent of
Missouri's population. However, every county in Missouri - rural, urban or
suburban - now has a Hispanic population, Martinez said.

According to Census figures, the most marked increases in the St. Louis region
are in the suburbs in places that until a few years ago were nearly all white.
In St. Charles County there are now two Hispanics per every 100 people - up from
about 1.5 people per 100 in 2000.

In that same time period the Hispanic population in Lincoln County grew by about
91 percent to almost 850. In Warren County, the number more than doubled, to 650
people. Jefferson County also had a 31 percent increase, to 2,630 people. The
Metro East saw marked increases, with a 24 percent growth rate in St. Clair
County. That county has the largest estimated Hispanic population, nearly 7,000,
or about 2.7 percent of the nearly 261,000 people there. Madison County also
grew by 1,214 Hispanics, an increase of about 31 percent. In Monroe County, with
450 Hispanics, the population also more than doubled.

St. Louis County, which has seen a steady flow of immigrants into northern areas
such as Hazelwood over the past several years, had a nearly 33 percent growth in
its Hispanic population, to more than 19,300.

Although the Hispanic population also increased in the city of St. Louis to
nearly 9,000, the number of Hispanics relative to its population stayed nearly
the same at 2.5 Hispanics per 100 people.

This new suburban population puts new demands on counties not fully equipped
with bilingual services.

Much of the slack is being taken up by area churches. Currently about 20
churches in the region are offering religious services in Spanish, and several
are developing programs to teach English as a second language. The programs are
run mainly by volunteers who not only teach, but drive students to and from
classes, said Patrick Regalado, a pastor with First Baptist Church of O'Fallon
and head of the Hispanic Pastors and Leaders of the Greater St. Louis Area.

"I see the county is not ready," said Regalado, who was born in Eduador. "They
don't have the equipment and resources to face these situations."

As the community spreads out into the farther suburbs, it is difficult to
deliver services to those who need them, he said. Even getting the word out
about programs is tricky, because the region's Spanish-language radio station
starts to falter at the eastern edge of St. Charles County.

Lupe Plaza, a Head Start caseworker at the St. Charles branch of the children's
service agency Youth In Need, works with many Hispanic families. Her agency
recently hired a third bilingual caseworker based in Wentzville to handle the
demand for Spanish-speaking home visitors.

Plaza said she dealt with a tightly knit, insulated and hardworking community
that's committed to making life better for their children.

"They have such a strong work ethic. It doesn't matter what you ask them to do,
they'll do it," Plaza said, noting that many of her families juggle three and
sometimes more jobs to make ends meet.

Plaza and other members of a growing Mexican middle class in St. Charles County
have different views on immigration, but all of them agree that people have a
tendency to assume that because someone is poor and Hispanic, he or she is in
the country illegally. They are asking for tolerance and fairness - especially
on work sites.

"The reason we're all here is we want a better opportunity. We want a better
life for our kids and our families," said Gloria Garcia as she tended the cash
register at her family's grocery, Tienda Mexicana El Caporal, off First Capitol
Drive in St. Charles. Garcia's family store offers everything from an
increasingly popular lunch counter with Mexican favorites, to colorful votive
candles, piñatas, cowboy boots, CDs of Hispanic pop stars and ballooning bags of
chili peppers. The store is a slice of home for many, she said.

"You have to have the chilies," she said of the store. "We have to have the
spice."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - NEW NEIGHBORS, NEW NEEDS Head Start home visitor Lupe Plaza (left) of
St. Charles helps Melissa Garcia, 4, with her reading last month as Melissa's
mother, Cristina Garcia, listens. Plaza works at the St. Charles branch of the
children's service agency Youth In Need, which recently hired a third
Spanish-speaking caseworker. Garcia, a native of Mexico who has lived in St.
Charles for nine years, says she and her husband chose St. Charles for
quality-of-life issues. "It is beautiful out here," said Garcia, who says she
feels safe and likes the quality of education for her children.  Laurie Skrivan
| Post-Dispatch  GRAPHIC - THE GROWING HISPANIC POPULATION IN THE ST. LOUIS
REGION Compiled by Mark Learman | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Working outside our comfort zone increases quality of life

BYLINE: By Terrence Freeman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 693 words


St. Louis is a diverse community that sometimes fractures along city-county,
north-south, east-west and white-black-immigrant fault lines. The mere mention
of "diversity" generates reactions ranging from unwavering support to outright
dismissal.

Disagreements often stem from suspicions of hidden agendas or ulterior motives.
Some see "diversity" as a code word for "affirmative action." Others regard it
as a kind of political correctness that encroaches on freedom. Indeed, advocates
of diversity sometimes devote too much energy to compiling lists of terms and
behaviors that should be forbidden so that no person or group ever is offended
by them. Such a definitive list is, of course, non-existent.

Although we should not pretend that words cannot hurt, demean or marginalize
others, what truly matters in a rapidly changing, demographically diverse
environment is how we build and sustain cooperative and productive communities
and organizations.

Demographic studies continue to chart the societal shifts: Millions of
immigrants have come to the United States in recent decades, and many thousands
have settled in St. Louis. There is no typical profile. Along with undereducated
immigrants, there also has been a net "brain gain." Writers, artists and the
world's scientific elite are contributing to making the United States a
technological and cultural capital of the world.

America's non-immigrant profile is likewise diverse:

Nonwhites now make up 30 percent of the U.S. population; projections by the U.S.
Census indicate that the percentage will increase to 50 percent by 2050. Race
relations will continue to be a major challenge throughout the 21st century, and
issues of class will add to the complexity.

The fastest growing age segment of the population is the one 85 years old and
up; only 25 percent of that group is healthy enough to live alone without
difficulty. By 2030, one-third of the U.S. population will be older than 65.

The "sandwich generation" is being forced to choose between nursing home fees
for parents and college tuition for children. The proportion of two-income
families has doubled since 1960. More women have entered the work force, many of
them mothers. Increasing family-work conflicts result in lower productivity -
along with higher employee turnover, stress and distraction. And approximately
half of all children in single-parent families live in poverty.

In the midst of all this change, we are challenged collectively to better
communicate and cooperate across the demographic barriers. All too often, we
view each other through culturally tinted lenses and see caricature and
stereotype, instead of unique blends of culture, personality and experience.

No group is monolithic. Because our cross-cultural vision often is impaired, we
end up discriminating personally and systematically, sometimes even without
conscious animosity. This makes us even more uncomfortable when our actions or
omissions are challenged.

Developing a multicultural perspective requires us to critically examine
patterns of behavior and biases we've learned and internalized. As we meet and
interact with people from many cultural backgrounds, we will have to acknowledge
and respect our different perspectives and practices in order to achieve our
common goals.

The truth is, many cultural differences just push us outside our respective
comfort zones. Finding common ground on which to stand and from which to work
will increase the quality of our lives dramatically.

It's not just a matter of age, gender, race, ethnicity or sexual orientation;
it's the untapped reserves of creativity, innovation and accomplishment to be
found in all segments of society. The strength of our country and our region
ultimately rests on how well we can respect each other's varied backgrounds as
we go about the task of forging our separate pasts into a unified future.

---

Terrence Freeman of Spanish Lake is an engineering professor at St. Louis
Community College. A national program director for 100 Black Men of America,
Freeman has served as a consultant and volunteer for churches, community
organizations, schools, industry and law enforcement agencies.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our local contributors OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - Terrence Freeman  GRAPHIC - (Black and White Hands ready for a
handshake) Dean Rohrer | Newsart

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

McCaskill puts hold on immigration nominee

BYLINE: By Deirdre Shesgreen Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Claire McCaskill moved Tuesday to block a confirmation vote on Julie Myers,
the nominee of the administration of President George W. Bush for the top
immigration enforcer.

McCaskill, D-Mo., said she was acting because of questions raised about Myers'
role in a Halloween contest in which an agency employee wore a racially
offensive costume.

Myers heads the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency as a recess
appointee of Bush and is awaiting Senate confirmation.

She was a judge at last week's contest in which the employee was recognized for
having the "most original" costume: a prisoner with a black-and-white striped
outfit, dreadlocks, and bronze makeup on his face, according to Kelly Nantel, an
agency spokeswoman.

McCaskill said she was putting a "hold" on the nomination until she gets answers
to several questions, including why a photograph of Myers with the costumed
employee was destroyed.

"The minute she saw the costume, she should have asked him to leave, not posed
for a picture with him," said McCaskill, who sent a letter to Myers Tuesday
asking for a full explanation of the incident.

Nantel said Myers and others didn't realize the white employee had
skin-darkening makeup on his face until after the contest was over, when other
employees complained that his costume was offensive. Once Myers realized that
the costume had "rightly offended" some employees, Nantel said, agency officials
decided to delete the photos because "they were inappropriate as well."

Nantel said Myers had apologized and put the employee on paid administrative
leave Tuesday morning, pending the inquiry.

McCaskill was a sharp critic of Myers well before the Halloween incident. She
says the administration is not aggressive enough in prosecuting employers who
hire illegal workers, a charge Myers disputes.

McCaskill said the Halloween incident confirmed her belief that Myers should not
run the immigration agency.

"This is about judgment and how you handle your responsibility as the leader of
a very large organization," she said.

In the letter, McCaskill said the agency must show "zero tolerance for racial
insensitivity" and said "this sorry episode does exactly the opposite."

Myers won committee approval in September with McCaskill the lone no vote.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Myers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Phone card companies under fire Customers complain of confusing terms, getting
shorted on minutes.

BYLINE: By Laura Wides-Munoz the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


They can be seen hanging behind the counter at the mini-mart, those brightly
colored phone cards for calling Latin America, Africa and Asia. Often, they are
the only reliable way for immigrants to stay in touch with their families.

But many buyers of these cards are being ripped off to the tune of millions of
dollars per year.

Some cards fail to deliver the promised minutes. Others tack on confusing fees
that may not be listed in the microscopic print on the back of the card. Still
others round up each call to the nearest three-minute mark.

"Sometimes they give you all the minutes. Sometimes they don't. Then you have to
switch to a new card," said Augusto Revolorio, a Miami Beach grocery stocker. He
buys the $2 or $5 cards regularly to call his mother and four brothers in
Guatemala. "It costs me more to complain on the phone and be late for work, so I
just rip up the card and buy a new one."

A 2004 study led by University of Georgia economics professor emeritus Julia
Marlowe found that the cost-per-minute rates for prepaid calling cards were on
average 87 percent higher than those advertised.

But because many immigrants like Revolorio don't have time or are afraid to go
to authorities to complain - and the money they lose per card is small - little
has been done to crack down.

"Every time I check, the telecommunications industry is a highly regulated
industry. This one they don't want to regulate," said Gus West, head of the
nonprofit, Washington-based Hispanic Institute.

That's beginning to change. In the past year, attorneys general in Florida,
California and several other states have begun to take a closer look at the
phone card industry, as has the Federal Trade Commission. In October, Rep. Eliot
Engel, D-N.Y., introduced legislation to regulate the business.

The push comes in part from an unlikely source - communications giant IDT Corp.
The Newark, N.J., company settled its own decade-long class action lawsuit in
January over allegations it failed to adequately disclose its charges. Now, it
is leading the call for regulation at the state and federal level.

"What we'd like to see is an honest industry, where everyone is held to the same
standard that we hold for ourselves," IDT head Jim Courter said.

The most popular cards among immigrants - and the ones least likely to deliver
promised minutes - are those offering super cheap rates to countries such as
Mexico, Guatemala, Haiti and India.

Norbert Dominguez of Miami said he buys about six $10 cards a month to stay in
touch with his mother and 4-year-old daughter in Cuba. Each card promises 18
minutes but usually delivers closer to 12, he said. That's an actual cost of
about 83 cents per minute, versus the promised 55 cents. Still, it is cheaper
than the typical long-distance telephone rate of $1.15 a minute.

Dominguez said he has complained with little success. "They give you a customer
service rep, but it's never someone with authority," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Augusto Revolorio, an immigrant from Guatemala, eats at a cafe this
week in Miami Beach. Revolorio is among those who buys $2 or $5 brightly colored
phone cards, in his case to call his family in Jutiapa, Guatemala. Some state
attorneys general are looking into reported phone card company abuses, and a
bill has been introduced in Congress.   The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Digest

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 604 words


MEXICO CITY

Calderon objects to talk of migrants in U.S. politics

Mexican President Felipe Calderon took the unusual step Wednesday of injecting
himself into U.S. presidential politics, calling Mexican migrants "thematic
hostages" of the race and urging candidates not to use them as a talking point.

Speaking at a conference here, Calderon criticized what he called "the growing
harassment" of Mexicans in the United States and said his administration will
finance a media campaign to underline immigrant success stories.

Calderon made his remarks one day before his environment minister, Rafael Elvira
Quesada, is scheduled to release a report concluding that the U.S.-Mexico border
wall is damaging the environment.

Calderon has frequently criticized U.S. immigration policy, as do many Mexicans.
But it is unusual for a Mexican president to make such a direct comment about
U.S. presidential campaign strategies.

BEIJING

Sewage in Yangtze River reaches record level

The amount of sewage dumped into China's Yangtze River rose 3 percent last year
to a record level, state media said Wednesday.

Some 30.5 billion tons of domestic and industrial sewage were dumped into the
river in 2006, according to water authorities, Xinhua News Agency said.

The 3,900-mile Yangtze is the world's third-largest river, flowing across the
breadth of China to the East China Sea.

WARSAW, POLAND

7 Polish soldiers charged in Afghanistan killings

Prosecutors charged six Polish soldiers Wednesday with murder and violating
international law in the deaths of several civilians in an allegedly unprovoked
attack in Afghanistan.

A seventh soldier involved in the Aug. 16 attack on the Nangarkhel village faces
lesser charges, said Karol Frankowski, a military prosecutor in the western city
of Poznan.

The group is accused of firing mortars and machine guns on the village in the
eastern Afghan province of Paktika without "any simultaneous, direct threat," in
violation of The Hague and Geneva conventions protecting civilians in areas of
armed conflict, Frankowski said.

STRASBOURG, FRANCE

Investigator suggests CIA used Ukrainian airstrip

A European Union investigator said Wednesday that he has evidence to suggest
that a Ukrainian airstrip was used by CIA-operated planes involved in the U.S.
extraordinary rendition program.

Giovanni Fava said he was also looking into possible CIA use of a military
facility at a Ukrainian base. Fava, an Italian member of the European
Parliament, drafted a report last year identifying more than 1,000 secret CIA
flights with stopovers on European territory since 2001. He identified several
of them as being used to transfer terrorism suspects.

Ukrainian Defense Minister Anatoly Gritsenko, in a telephone interview with The
Associated Press, dismissed Fava's statements as "nonsense." He declined to
comment further.

LONDON

Britain plans tougher anti-terrorism measures

Travelers face new delays and disruption on trips to Britain under government
plans unveiled Wednesday to tighten defenses against terrorism at airports, rail
stations and major public spaces.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown said airports and 250 of the busiest train terminals
will get new blast barriers. The recommendations include new baggage checks at
major rail terminals, strict limits on cars dropping travelers off near
departure gates, and - at times of heightened threat - frisking customers before
they enter shopping malls.

Brown said Internet and technology companies will be asked to help stop online
terrorist propaganda, and he announced that a meeting would be convened with
leading British Internet service providers to find ways of doing that.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants receive shots to ward off the flu Providing clients with the free
immunizations is a first for International Institute.

BYLINE: By Doug Moore ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS -


Yae Naung rolled up his sleeve and smiled, showing the bandage that covered his
fresh flu shot.

It didn't hurt, Naung, of Myanmar, said Wednesday through an interpreter. Winter
is coming, and Naung said he wanted his family healthy.

His wife and two of their children also got the shots at the International
Institute of St. Louis, an agency that helps refugees and immigrants learn
English, find jobs and connect with other services to get acclimated to a
foreign land that is now their home.

Providing the free flu shots is a first for the agency. Officials thought it was
important to provide the shots along with other basic needs. Bosnians,
Ethiopians, Somalis, Afghans, Congolese and Iranians were among those filling
out forms and reading brochures on the flu with the help of interpreters. About
200 shots had been given by noon.

"Many of our clients don't have the money for or accessibility to flu shots,"
said Anna Crosslin, executive director of the International Institute. "When
they're in refugee camps, they're worried about getting food."

As a result, they are more susceptible to illness, Crosslin said.

The institute is following recommendations by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention to get as many people immunized as possible, said Ariel Burgess,
director of social services.

While the institute is concerned that new immigrants get their flu shots,
Crosslin said there was little need to worry about what the refugees might have
brought with them into the country.

"There is a health screening, and if they have a communicable disease, they're
not allowed in," Crosslin said. "This is about them getting something that they
haven't been exposed to before."

The institute is joining other agencies that serve those who are often uninsured
and do not seek regular health care.

"We go to schools, churches, wherever the need is to try to make it easily
accessible for the people," said Rosalyn Fulton, community outreach coordinator
for People's Heath Centers, which serves the uninsured.

Refugees and others who don't get vaccinated because of lack of access to health
care can continue to spread the virus, and "we could have an epidemic running
rampant," Fulton said.

Burgess said the institute tried to keep the flu under control among its
clients. The institute provides tips on how to avoid the virus, including
covering your mouth when coughing and washing hands regularly.

On Wednesday, Naung's family was among the first to receive flu shots at the
institute.

His youngest daughter, Ma Ngwe Aye, 5, put on a brave face - until she saw the
needle headed for her arm. The tiny girl let out a mighty wail as she sat on her
dad's lap.

But as quickly as a nurse had a colorful bandage on the girl's arm, she had gone
back to working on a red lollipop, her reward for fighting off the flu.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Saddiqa Abdul Ghafoor, who has lived in St. Louis for four years since
leaving Afghanistan, gets a flu shot Wednesday at the International Institute.
The institute is joining other agencies that serve those who are often uninsured
and do not seek regular health care.  Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Los Lobos' cultural roots run deep

BYLINE: By Barry Gilbert ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: GET OUT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words


The music of Los Lobos has always been graced by sonic splendor, danceable
rhythms and vision, but it has also exuded a strong sense of brotherhood and
community.

Thanks to the cinematic songwriting skills of guitarist David Hidalgo and
drummer Louie Perez, Los Lobos' chief lyricist, this sense of community extends
far beyond the 34-year-old band to the Mexican-American culture that nurtures it
in East Los Angeles.

On Los Lobos' most recent CD, "The Town and the City," Perez again writes about
the Mexican-American experience, but in the context of one of America's most
contentious issues: immigration.

"I didn't set out to write a record about immigration," Perez, whose parents
came to America from Mexico, said recently from his home in Los Angeles. "That
was something that kind of communicated itself. But I can't remember when I
haven't written about things that you associate with the immigrant experience.

"If you go back to our first full-length LP, 'How Will the Wolf Survive,' (the
song) 'A Matter of Time' was written about a person crossing the border and
leaving his family behind. So it's hard for me to detach myself from that,
especially now, with what's going on in contemporary politics."

On the new CD, "The Valley" begins the journey, telling the romantic story of a
new beginning. By the time the album reaches its ambiguous conclusion, the
protagonist has cycled through life's joys and disappointments, through "The
City" to "The Town."

" 'The Town' for me was looking back at where I grew up," Perez says. "And
rather than paint this pastoral picture, I had to look at what my town was. And
I had to include the happy times, with all the wrinkles that go with it. You
have the shot going off in the night - and you know there was a lot of verses.
There was helicopters and kids playing in the yard, there was the smell of fresh
tortillas kind of wafting in the air from the tortilla factory that was two
doors down from my house. A lot of stuff. And we just kind of settled on these
here, this little bit of a description of the town where we came from."

Perez, 54 - "I'm two months from being able to order off the seniors menu" -
maintains that his band is nonpolitical. The truth is that Los Lobos' music is
so powerful because it is rooted in the experiences of real people, not in
soapbox oratory.

"One journalist I spoke to some years ago said, man, if you listen to all your
records, you sound like a depressed guy," Perez laughs. "I said no, no, I'm just
a storyteller. And I write either what's in front of me or what I remember ...
and things that move me. It might be something I hear on the news, or it could
be a photograph or a picture in a magazine that moves me to tell a story."

And Perez has been telling his stories for 34 years in the same band, which
started playing in Spanish for neighborhood parties and events. The only lineup
change has been the addition of ex-Blaster Steve Berlin - "the new guy," Perez
laughs - on sax and keys, 22 years ago.

How has Los Lobos kept it together?

"Well, I'd like to say it's because our roots run so deep, culturally and
geographically, of course," Perez says. "We all grew up in the same
neighborhood. We were friends before we ever played music together. We didn't
put out a classified ad for bass players, let's put it that way. I would like to
think that's what keeps us together.

"And also, the sense of discovery ... and the drive to reinvent. Every record's
always different, and the songs are always changing. All those things, all
together."

---

Los Lobos, opening for John Mellencamp When: 7:30 tonight Where: The Concert
Club at Scottrade Center, 1401 Clark Avenue How much: $42.50 to $72.50 More
info: 314-622-5435 or ticketmaster.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MUSIC

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Los Lobos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Naturalization is months behind A sudden burst overwhelms the citizenship
process.

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Millions of people who applied for naturalization and other immigration benefits
to beat a midsummer fee increase are caught in a paperwork pileup that threatens
the chance for some to become U.S. citizens in time to vote in next year's
presidential election.

The application backlog is so large that Citizenship and Immigration Services, a
division of the Department of Homeland Security, is months behind schedule in
returning receipts for checks written to cover fees - an early step in the
process.

"Were we caught off guard by the volume? Let's just say it was anticipated it
would increase. It was not anticipated it would increase by that much," said
Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The immigration agency would not say how many applications it has received. The
American Immigration Lawyers Association, a private legal advocacy group, said
it was told by agency officials that 3.5 million applications had come in over a
two-month period. The agency projected a workload of 3.2 million applications
for fiscal years 2008 and 2009.

Gonzalez ordered his staff to give priority to naturalizations, but some
applicants will miss voting in primaries, which begin in January.

"I really want to target the elections," Gonzalez said. "I really want to get as
many people out there to vote as possible."

The onslaught of applications has led to some files being sent back with errors
or mistakenly rejected, while others seem lost in the system, applicants and
attorneys say. Service centers in Nebraska and Texas have the longest delays.
The Texas Service Center is working on applications dating from July 26,
according to the agency's latest Web posting.

Boston janitor Betsy Camacho, 44, applied for U.S. citizenship on July 27. On
Nov. 9, she got a receipt acknowledging the check she wrote for her fees had
been deposited and her information was logged in the agency's computer.

Normally such receipts are returned to applicants within a week to 10 days,
immigration attorneys said.

"I would like to vote, to participate, to travel with a passport, have freedom
of expression," Camacho said.

A native of El Salvador, she has lived in the United States for nearly 25 years.

Some groups that have been waging national campaign to help 1 million legal
residents become citizens and vote in 2008 fear the pileup will hurt their
efforts.

"Everybody keeps saying immigrants don't want to be part of this country, they
don't want to assimilate and here people are coming in droves to show how much
they want to be part of this country and here are these barriers. I think it's
unconscionable," said Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of Service
Employees International Union.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - HIGHER FEES, STRAIN FOR IMMIGRANTS | AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Netherlands is wrestling with its multiculturalism

BYLINE: By Mike Corder THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Netherlands


One was a Somali refugee, the other an Argentine investment banker. Both are now
high-profile Dutch women challenging this country to rethink its national
identity.

Princess Maxima, the Argentine-born wife of Crown Prince Willem Alexander,
triggered a round of national soul-searching with a speech last month about what
exactly it means to be Dutch in an age of mass migration.

"The Netherlands is too complex to sum up in one cliche," she said. "A typical
Dutch person doesn't exist."

Her comments have tapped into an unsettled feeling among many Dutch who fear
traditional values have been eroded in a country roiled by a rise in Muslim
extremism. It's a view espoused by Somali-born Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who has turned
her back on her Islamic roots.

Conservatives in this nation of 16 million say the long Dutch tradition of
welcoming immigrants and putting little or no pressure on them to integrate
undermines Western values.

"What is really at stake, due to frivolous immigration policies and decades of
multicultural indifference, is the identity of the Dutch nation, Dutch history
and culture as a part of the history of Western civilization," said Bart Jan
Spruyt, founder of the Edmund Burke Foundation, a conservative think tank.

Han van der Horst, author of a popular book on Dutch culture and history,
defends the nation's live-and-let-live traditions. He points to an old Dutch
saying that translates as "everybody is entitled to his own views."

Hirsi Ali, the former Somali refugee, is one of the success stories of Dutch
immigration policy, but also a critic.

She condemns the Dutch tradition of multiculturalism, saying tolerance for the
intolerant has provided a dangerous breeding ground for Islamic radicalism.

Fear of such radicalism crystallized after the 2004 murder of filmmaker Theo van
Gogh, Hirsi Ali's collaborator on the controversial movie "Submission" - a
fictional study of abused Muslim women.

Since the Van Gogh slaying, the conservative government has reversed course on
multiculturalism, passing a raft of laws that emphasize integration over
cultural tolerance - most notably forcing foreigners to take citizenship courses
and learn Dutch.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  World

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Ali "We have become ... like the United States."  PHOTO - Maxima "A
typical Dutch person doesn't exist."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Sensors help stem the tide from Mexico Boeing's 'virtual fence' spurs hope and
concern in the Arizona desert.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1386 words

DATELINE: The Altar Valley, Ariz.


It used to be, you didn't have to lock your doors around here. Now people encase
their windows in wrought iron and their yards in razor wire.

In the quiet night, people say, you can sometimes hear the AK-47s of drug
smugglers battling over loads of marijuana.

And every year now, there are hundreds of bodies found in the desert, Mexicans
who died walking north for a better life.

This is the front line of our national dilemma over immigration. And it's the
place where Boeing is launching a project that just might be part of the
solution.

Here in Arizona's Altar Valley, a sea of mesquite and dusty creek beds
stretching southwest from Tucson, Boeing's St. Louis-based defense unit is
testing something called SBInet. It's a network of ground sensors, radar and
high-powered cameras that will scan the desert constantly and could help the
Border Patrol "gain operational control" of this vast and wild land.

It's the technological piece of a dramatic hardening of the border that's begun
in the last few years, a supplement to fencing, vehicle barriers and thousands
of new Border Patrol agents. That hardening, in turn, is key to the broader
efforts at immigration reform in Congress: Secure the border, the theory goes,
and allow more people to enter the country legally.

But so far, SBInet has been a disappointment.

Only a year old, the 28-mile pilot phase called "Project 28" is already five
months behind schedule, bogged down by the difficulties in making cameras and
radars work together properly. Critics in Washington say Boeing oversold what it
could do. And federal officials are holding back payment until they're satisfied
that Project 28 works as intended.

But testing is scheduled to wrap up soon, perhaps as early as this week. And the
Border Patrol still has high hopes for this "virtual fence," planning to build
it out from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas, over the next few years, and
eventually over the northern border, too.

"If it works here, we can be pretty sure it'll work nationally," said Osborne
Wilder, a Border Patrol agent who's helping oversee Project 28.

"Here" is a dusty, desolate land of 115-degree summer days and vast open
stretches with little shade or water. It's also the busiest piece of the busiest
sector of the 2,000 mile-long border with Mexico. In the last three years, more
than 1.2 million illegal immigrants have been caught trying to cross in eastern
and central Arizona, most of them in isolated stretches of desert. No one knows
how many made it through.

They've come out here, Border Patrol agents and humanitarian groups say, because
it's gotten so much harder to cross in the cities. Places such as Nogales, a
border city south of Tucson, have come to resemble armed camps, with 15-foot
fences, surveillance cameras and National Guardsmen and smugglers eyeing each
other from the hilltops.

In the desert, the only thing separating the two countries is waist-high cattle
fence, and the rugged terrain and long distances make patrols more difficult. So
the smugglers, known as "coyotes," bring the migrants out here.

"It's kind of like a current flowing," Wilder said. "They'll take the path of
least resistance."

That has changed the tenor of life in little border towns such as Arivaca, say
the people who live here.

There's more violence now, as the smuggling of drugs and the smuggling of
migrants have become increasingly intertwined. There are green and white Border
Patrol Chevy Tahoes cruising everywhere. There are 44-seat buses parked on
standby, waiting to ship captured border-crossers back to Mexico.

And there's a big tower overlooking Arivaca.

"Until all hell broke loose five years ago, this was a pretty mellow little
frontier town," said Mary Scott as she drove one through this isolated hamlet of
roughly 1,700 people.

Like many who live here, Scott came from somewhere else - Manhattan, in her case
- lured by the quiet and the natural beauty. Now she finds herself in the midst
of a national firestorm over immigration.

In her time in Arivaca, Scott has had some run-ins. Her home has been broken
into, food and jewelry stolen, and she awoke one night to banging and Spanish
voices at her door.

"The only thing I could understand was '300 U.S. dollars,'" she said. "They
wanted a ride."

But Scott doesn't have much use for the towers, especially the one just outside
town.

It's not going to solve the bigger problems of global economics that force
people to cross the desert for a better job, Scott says, and she worries that it
seems to have a better view of Arivaca than it does of the main creek beds that
smugglers travel. Like many here, she considers it a massive invasion of
privacy, and she predicts that other communities in SBInet's path will feel the
same way.

"People came out here because they wanted to live without this kind of stuff,"
she said. "Now it's staring down our nostrils."

But to others, the towers have already been a blessing, even if they don't quite
work yet.

Tom Kay lives on a rutted gravel road south of town, and his ranch includes four
and a half miles of the border. The last few years, he figures, "1,000, maybe
1,500" people have passed through his land every week, sometimes right through
his backyard.

He's constantly mending holes in his fences and water pipes, and he's had cows
die from eating the clothing the migrants leave behind. He sees spotters on the
hilltops with binoculars, watching for the Border Patrol. He carries a .44
Magnum, his wife a .38.

"We enjoy living here. We don't enjoy all the migrants, all the drug smuggling,"
Kay said. "It's hazardous. It's scary."

But since three SBInet towers went up nearby, he says, the traffic through his
ranch has plunged. The 1,500 became more like 300, he guesses, and there's a lot
less trash. Even if it's not fully operational, Kay says, SBInet is a deterrent,
and the coyotes and drug smugglers find another way.

Yet that's why the whole thing is futile, says Kat Rodriguez, coordinator for
Coalicion de Derechos Humanos, an immigrant rights group in Tucson. It's just
another piece of the "militarization of the border," she says. And it won't
solve anything.

So long as there are jobs here, immigrants will keep coming north. Drug
smugglers, too. They'll just try it in more and more remote areas. And more of
them will die in the process, Rodriguez says.

Deaths in the desert have climbed almost every year since the government began
hardening the border, Rodriguez notes. In the 12 months ending Oct. 1, 237
bodies were recovered in southern Arizona, up from 205 the year before.

"I'm not going to be tracking any fewer deaths next year," she said.

The answer, Rodriguez and other humanitarian activists argue, is a stronger
guest worker program: one that gives immigrant workers their rights and the
chance to cross legally, instead of forcing them to pay a coyote fees that start
at $1,200 - a year's wages for many in rural southern Mexico - to risk their
lives crossing the desert.

"It reminds me of Prohibition," Rodriguez said. "We've created this huge,
unregulated reality."

But it's the reality we have right now, the Border Patrol says. They blame the
coyotes who take migrants, many from distant states such as Chiapas and Oaxaca,
out into the unfamiliar desert, then take advantage of them. And they point a
finger at the businesses all over the country who hire undocumented workers.

"You're not going to stop the immigration until you enforce the laws," said Sean
King, a Border Patrol spokesman in Tucson. "Until they do something about the
companies hiring all these people, they're not going to stop coming."

Until then, however, the plan is to keep hardening the border, with more fences
and more patrol agents and more of Boeing's 98-foot-tall towers scanning the
desert day and night.

And even if many of those who live here don't think that'll solve the situation,
they're not really sure what else to do, either.

"It's ugly," said Mary Scott back in Arivaca. "There are no easy answers here."

---

Part 1 of 2

This is the first of two articles examining Boeing's high-tech bid to bolster
the U.S.-Mexico border.

Coming Monday

We take a look at what the project could mean for Boeing's St. Louis-based
defense unit.

---

Watch

STLtoday.com/multimedia Watch a video about how the Border Patrol tries to stop
illegal immigration in the border city of Nogales, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Boeing and the border

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; GRAPHIC
 PHOTO - Boeing's 'virtual fence' spurs hope and concern in the Arizona desert.
GRAPHIC - BOEING'S SBINET SYSTEM FOR PATROLLING THE MEXICAN BORDER Tom Borgman |
Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

African refugees flock to Midwest

BYLINE: By Nate Jenkins THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Neb.


Home is a shabby apartment building on the outskirts of town. Work is the late
shift at a meatpacking plant.

This is Degmo Ali's life. And it seems to have been misplaced in this rural
town: Dressed in ornate African garb, the graceful 24-year-old is hard to
picture on a Nebraska slaughterhouse floor.

"I want to go back," she says, referring to her native Somalia.

While Ali dreams of returning to the country she fled as a refugee after her
father was killed in the political violence that has wracked Somalia for nearly
two decades, she's comforted by the fact she is not alone in this town of 10,250
- far from it.

For years, Hispanic immigrants have moved to small and mid-sized meatpacking
towns like Lexington that dot the rural heartland, taking slaughterhouse jobs
considered to be some of the most dangerous in the country. Now Africans are
coming, drawn by a combination of factors - from a six-state federal raid that
cleared illegal Hispanic immigrants from packing houses, to word-of-mouth
advertising of meatpacking jobs by African refugees who want to flee big U.S.
cities.

The change has been a sometimes jarring one, coming at a time when towns such as
Lexington are still struggling to adapt to the large influx of Hispanics. In a
poll last year of rural residents by the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, just 14
percent of respondents said Latin American immigration had been good for rural
Nebraska. And immigration from Africa?

"When we first moved here, they used to look at us funny, but it's all right
now," said Somali refugee Omar Abib, who works at the Tyson Foods meatpacking
plant. The articulate, serious Abib, who has some college education, originally
settled in Texas and slaughtered chickens.

He heard about Lexington, like many others, from a friend. He was attracted to
the job, cheap living in a quiet town, and the chance to be surrounded by other
Somalis.

Just how many African refugees have moved to Lexington and other meatpacking
towns across the Midwest is unclear. But refugee resettlement officials and
local immigration specialists say there has been a sharp increase.

The rapid change in towns like Lexington has been a shock to the system of
services immigrants rely on, such as health care. Christine Kutschkau, the state
coordinator for refugee resettlement, said there has been a shortage of medicine
for an influx of refugees who needed to be treated for tuberculosis.

Because of trauma from experiences that drove them from their home countries,
many also need mental health services, she said.

U.S. immigration raids at Swift & Co. meatpacking plants last year encouraged
many refugees to come to the state.

Some aren't happy. Asha Mohamed, a fresh-faced, charismatic young woman who
moved to Lexington from Minneapolis, dreams of going to California, maybe New
York.

"It's too hard," she said of her life now.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Asha Mohamed, a refugee from Somalia, walks to her apartment on the
outskirts of Lexington, Neb. Mohamed is one of a growing number of African
refugees who are moving to rural Nebraska to work in meatpacking plants. The
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Jitters come with the job, firm finds Surveillance program struggles to solve
technical problems in midst of heated immigration debate.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1096 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, ARIZ.


In a dark control room at Border Patrol headquarters here, a Boeing Co.
technician and a Border Patrol agent watch a radar map of a swath of desert 50
miles to the south.

If something catches their eye - a dot moving fast off the road, say, or a
cluster at walking pace - they can zoom in with a high-powered camera and take a
look: Is it a rancher in his pickup? Or a van full of illegal immigrants? Drug
smugglers? Or cows?

If they think it's suspicious, they can call the nearest field agent, beam the
video to a computer in his or her SUV, and tell the agent to go check it out.

This is how SBInet, a Boeing-led network of towers with radars and cameras, is
supposed to work - providing a technological edge in securing the vast U.S.
border with Mexico. But more than a year in, it's not quite there yet, and
Boeing is getting battered as a result.

BIG JOB, BIG RISKS

Building this network of cameras and radars across wide stretches of desert and
mountains could be a huge job for Boeing's St. Louis-based defense unit -
estimates of its cost range from $8 billion to $30 billion over the next few
years. But it carries big risks, too, placing Boeing in the thick of one of the
thorniest issues in domestic politics even as the company tries to perfect the
complex technology that SBInet requires.

Boeing has been working on it since September 2006, when it won a $70 million
contract, in part on its promise to build the surveillance towers using
affordable, off-the-shelf commercial technology. The job includes development
work, managing subcontractors and some physical fencing along the Arizona
border. But most attention has focused on a 28-mile, $20 million network of nine
towers scanning remote stretches of desert, known as Project 28.

It was supposed to be up and running in June, but problems integrating the
radars and cameras on the towers kept it off line. Shrubbery blowing across the
desert, or a raindrop on a camera lens, could trigger the system, leading Border
Patrol agents on a wild goose chase.

"A lot of things that work in theory don't work on the ground," said Osborne
Wilder, an agent who is helping oversee SBInet. "When you go out there on the
ground, you can see where things don't come together."

All summer, Boeing worked on fixing those problems, but delays continued. By
September, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff was answering tough
questions about the project on Capitol Hill and meeting about it personally with
top Boeing executives. He announced that the company wouldn't receive full
payment until Homeland Security was satisfied with the results.

"I am not going to buy something with U.S. government money unless I'm satisfied
it works in the real world," Chertoff said at the time. "And if it can't be made
to work, I'm prepared to go and find something that will be made to work,
although I'll obviously be disappointed."

The delays shouldn't be surprising, said Jim Lewis, director of the technology
and public policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington. Making all these systems work together smoothly is complicated
stuff, he said. Similar military projects typically take years, while Boeing is
trying to launch SBInet in a few months.

HIGH-PROFILE PLAN

But the ferocity of the immigration debate that has roiled the country for the
last few years makes SBInet a high-profile job, he said, and there's little
patience for delay.

"It's so heated," Lewis said. "If they were doing this on the North Pole to look
for polar bears, no one would care. But because this is about immigration, it
attracts a lot of the lightning there."

And the thunder continues. Last month, with testing about to start again, Boeing
executives were called before a congressional hearing titled "Can SBInet work?"
where lawmakers took turns whacking them.

"I am extremely dismayed, to put it mildly," said Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss.,
chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security.

"I'm afraid this is just another example of a contractor pitching the American
public the end-all, be-all solution, wasting taxpayers' money and delivering
little or nothing for it," said Rep. Chris Carney, D-Pa. "We've got to do better
than this."

Roger Krone, president of Boeing's network and space systems division, was one
of its representatives that day. In an interview last week, he encouraged a long
view. The company knows how to weather a political storm and how to deliver on a
complex job.

"That's why they picked Boeing," Krone said. "It's a hard problem, and they
needed a contractor who's going to be there for the long haul. That's part of
what we bring."

Boeing has made significant changes to Project 28, said Dan Korte, who took over
management of the project in August. The company has added features to make the
programs easier for agents to use. Boeing has upgraded technology and hardware
in the system. And it has spent more than twice the $20 million it is contracted
to receive for the job.

COMPANY CONFIDENT

Testing is expected to wrap up by the end of this month, and company officials
said they were confident that, this time, the project would meet the Border
Patrol's specifications.

"For a demonstration project, we're pretty happy with where it is right now,"
Korte said.

But the final say is up to the Border Patrol, which isn't letting on just yet
what it thinks. If it accepts the system, the agency plans to build it along 286
miles of the Arizona border by the end of next year, as part of a broader plan
to "gain operational control of the border."

It's an ambitious goal, Wilder acknowledges.

There's no guarantee that Boeing will get that work or other long-term jobs on
SBInet. Right now, it is under contract for development and is choosing sites
for the next round of towers. That gives it a leg up, said Gregory Giddens, head
of SBInet for the Department of Homeland Security, but "there is no such thing
as a lock," he told Congress last month.

Nor is there a lock on funding for billions of dollars' worth of surveillance
towers stretched across the Southwestern border, especially with expectations
sky high and reality quite complicated.

"The main problem Boeing has is that this is so tagged to the immigration
debate," Lewis said. "Some people want SBInet to be the silver bullet. Some
people won't like it no matter what."

---

PART 2 of 2

This is the second of two articles examining Boeing's high-tech bid to bolster
the U.S.-Mexico border.

Watch

STLtoday.com/multimedia Watch a video about how the Border Patrol tries to stop
illegal immigration in the border city of Nogales, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Boeing and the border

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 360 words


NEW YORK

R.J. Reynolds to halt cigarette print ads

The R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. said Tuesday that it would not advertise its
cigarette brands in newspapers or consumer magazines next year.

The company had been criticized sharply for both its colorful and feminine Camel
No. 9 ads, which appeared in fashion magazines and were seen as aimed at young
women, and also for a recent Camel cigarette ad in Rolling Stone magazine that
was presented in a cartoon-like format. Anti-smoking advocates said it recalled
the old "Joe Camel" cartoons that were banned because they appeared aimed at
children.

WASHINGTON

Wildlife refuges found to be cost-effective

National wildlife refuges more than make up for their cost to taxpayers by
returning about $4 in economic activity for every $1 the government spends,
according to a federal study released Tuesday.

Overall, the refuges drew some 35 million hunters, anglers, birders and other
visitors in 2006, supporting about 27,000 jobs, the study found.

Advocates point to the study as evidence that budget cuts have been ill-advised.

COLUMBUS, OHIO

Immigrant convicted over aiding terrorist

A Somali immigrant was sentenced to 10 years in prison Tuesday for plotting to
blow up an Ohio shopping mall with a man later convicted of being an al-Qaida
terrorist.

Nuradin Abdi, a cell phone salesman before his arrest, pleaded guilty in July to
conspiring to provide material support for terrorists. He will be deported to
Somalia after serving the federal sentence.

MODESTO, CALIF.

New owners mum on buying Peterson house

Unidentified new owners of a home once owned by Scott and Laci Peterson aren't
talking about buying Modesto's most notorious abode.

Authorities say Scott Peterson strangled his pregnant wife in the house on or
just before Christmas Eve 2002. Peterson was convicted of double murder and
arrived on death row in March 2005, where he awaits appeals.

The 1,770-square-foot, three-bedroom, two-bath cottage-bungalow sold for
$280,000. That's $110,000 less than the parents of Scott and Laci Peterson
received when they sold it in July 2005 to a real estate agent who bought the
home and lived in it before declaring bankruptcy.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Giuliani, Romney get testy over immigration in debate GOP candidates encounter a
range of questions in innovative YouTube forum.

BYLINE: By Liz Sidoti The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.


Republican presidential rivals Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney scornfully debated
immigration Wednesday in a provocative CNN/YouTube debate just over a month
before the first votes are cast.

Giuliani, the front-runner in national polls, accused Romney of employing
illegal immigrants at his home and running a "sanctuary mansion." The testy
personal exchange came after Romney said Giuliani had retained New York's status
as a sanctuary city while he was mayor.

The confrontation came at the start of an innovative CNN/YouTube debate that
forced the candidates to confront immigration immediately, signaling the
volatility of the issue among Republican voters. The eight GOP candidates
encountered a range of questions, including abortion, gun control from a
gun-wielding NRA member, and farm subsidies from a man eating corn.

They were even asked whether they believed every word in the Bible by a man
holding the holy book, and a question on the vice president's powers from a
gun-toting cartoon version of Dick Cheney.

On the topic of immigration, Fred Thompson took the opportunity to distinguish
himself from both Romney and Giuliani, arguing that Romney had supported
President George W. Bush's plan to provide a path to citizenship for some
immigrants in the United States illegally now. He took Giuliani to task for
attacking Romney's employment of illegal immigrants.

Sen. John McCain defended his support for an unsuccessful immigration overhaul
that included a temporary worker program and a path to citizenship.

Mike Huckabee, who also has come under GOP criticism for some of his immigration
policies while governor of Arkansas, defended benefits he supported for children
of illegal immigrants, including allowing children to be eligible to apply for
college scholarships.

The most fierce exchanges were among the candidates with the most at stake with
only five weeks left before the first voting in the presidential race begins.
Giuliani leads in national polls but trails Romney in early-voting Iowa and New
Hampshire. Romney faces challenges from Huckabee in Iowa and from Giuliani and
McCain in New Hampshire.

In talk about the Iraq war, McCain engaged Ron Paul, a Texas congressman whose
libertarian views and opposition to the war have attracted thousands of donors,
millions of dollars and a devoted online following.

McCain said Paul is promoting isolationism in calling for the United States to
disengage from the war. "We allowed (Adolf) Hitler to come to power with that
attitude of isolation," he said.

Paul objected, saying McCain had miscast his support for nonintervention as
isolationism.

"I want to trade with people, talk with people, travel," Paul replied.

---

Talk

STLtoday.com/current Who impressed you in the debate? Who fell flat? Talk about
it in Current Affairs.

Get more

STLtoday.com/politics Get complete political coverage.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

English grows on Hispanic immigrants By their third generation in the U.S., 94
percent say they are fluent in English.

BYLINE: By Frank Greve McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Just like previous immigrant groups, Hispanic immigrants in the United States
speak little English in the first generation, but English dominates in the lives
of the second generation and Spanish fades in the third, according to a study
released Thursday.

The classic pattern, reported by the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington-based
nonprofit research group, partially counters concerns raised in immigration
debates that Hispanics in the United States will cluster in Spanish-speaking
enclaves rather than assimilate and learn English, as previous immigrant groups
have done.

The study found, however, that Hispanics of Mexican origin - who predominate in
the largest U.S. immigrant influx in a century - are the slowest to adopt
English in succeeding generations.

The study also offered no estimate of how long assimilation might take.

According to Pew senior writer D'Vera Cohn, a co-author of the analysis, picking
up English is key to assimilation "because it's how people get a better job,
talk to their neighbors, talk to their child's teacher and fit in generally."

Among the findings:

- Only 23 percent of first-generation Hispanic immigrants say they're fluent in
English. That rises to 88 percent in the second generation and 94 percent in the
third. Reading English with ease follows the same pattern, but the percentages
are slightly lower.

- Half of the adult children of Latino immigrants speak some Spanish at home.
That falls to a quarter or less in subsequent generations.

- Half of Mexican immigrants report that they speak only Spanish on their jobs,
the highest rate of any Hispanic group.

Mexican patterns are especially important to the big picture, said Rakesh
Kochhar, Pew's associate director for research, because Mexican immigrants make
up 64 percent of the U.S. Hispanic population.

Kochhar said he suspected that heavy reliance on Spanish among Mexican
immigrants reflected large numbers of recent arrivals and an education level
that, on average, was the lowest among U.S. Hispanics.

According to Cohn, it's impossible to know how quickly German, Eastern European,
Asian and other immigrant groups took up English in the 19th and 20th centuries
because no one kept the figures.

For that matter, Pew's findings measure only English fluency and literacy in
succeeding generations, not how long it took for individuals to adopt English.

The findings are based on 14,000 interviews of legal and illegal adult Hispanic
immigrants nationwide, conducted from 2002 to 2006.

Their margins of error varied from plus or minus 2.41 percentage points to plus
or minus 3.8 percentage points.

---

Get more STLtoday.com/links Read the study on Hispanics and English.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 245 words


WASHINGTON

New detention policy for asylum seekers

More people seeking asylum in the United States could be detained and then
jailed longer under a new Homeland Security Department policy for people wanting
safe harbor.

The new policy applies to people placed in so-called expedited removal, a broad
post-Sept. 11 category for immigrants who arrive in the U.S. seeking asylum or
whose immigration paperwork is incorrect, invalid or nonexistent.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of the Homeland Security
Department, said it issued the new policy Nov. 6 to make detention rules for
asylum seekers more consistent and clear.

Refugee advocates say it sets tougher standards for asylum seekers to win parole
from detention.

WASHINGTON

FIVE EARN HONORS FROM KENNEDY CENTER

From "Good Vibrations" to "GoodFellas," singer Brian Wilson and filmmaker Martin
Scorsese scored. Comedian Steve Martin strutted as one of the "wild and crazy
guys." Diana Ross sang to Motown stardom. Pianist Leon Fleisher surmounted a
debilitating injury - he lost the use of his right hand for much of his career.

Their contributions to American culture won them a visit Sunday to the White
House and recognition by President George W. Bush, followed by an evening of
celebration at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

For their career achievements, the five were named in September as members of
the 30th class of Kennedy Center honorees.

The two-hour event will air Dec. 26 on CBS.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 7, 2007 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Boeing waits for word on fence Government is deciding whether to accept first
phase of border device.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 352 words


A decision is "imminent" on whether to accept the first phase of Boeing Co.'s
"virtual fence" along the Mexican border, Homeland Security officials said
Thursday.

The $20 million pilot project, which is six months overdue, is a key piece of
government plans to secure the southern border against illegal immigration. And
if, as planned, it is rolled out across the entire border, it could be a huge
job for Boeing's St. Louis-based defense unit, which is the lead contractor.

Testing on the first phase, a 28-mile stretch of towers with radar and cameras
scanning the desert south of Tucson, known as Project 28, wrapped up last week.
Now the Border Patrol is deciding whether it meets specifications.

"There are no more steps in this process," said Michael Friel, a spokesman for
Customs and Border Protection. "We're at the point at which a decision is
pending."

No time line has been set, Friel said, but a decision is "imminent."

It shouldn't be, says the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee,
because it doesn't appear Project 28 yet works as intended.

In a letter sent Wednesday, Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., urged Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to delay acceptance until he was "certain
that Project 28 performs as it was originally billed," not as a test platform
but as a fully-functional tool for border security. He also asked for further
clarification on what has caused the delays, prompted by software woes and
problems synchronizing radar and cameras that agents can use to watch
border-crossers across vast distances.

The project has attracted a lot of attention in Washington, and the delays have
been a thorn in Boeing's side for months.

Homeland Security sent Project 28 back for more work after tests earlier this
year and has withheld the final $5 million Boeing is due to be paid. Chertoff
has threatened to give the job to someone else if Boeing can't fix the glitches.

A company spokeswoman declined comment Thursday, but in a recent interview, top
executives said they were confident they had fixed the software problems, though
the project had more than doubled in cost.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Compelling story chronicles family split by immigration

BYLINE: By Holly Silva Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: A&E; Pg. F14

LENGTH: 396 words


Edwidge Danticat has written a memoir of the highest order: substantive,
unsentimental, lucid and beautiful.

Danticat was born in 1969 in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Two years later, her father,
André, left for New York, hoping to create a safer and more prosperous home. His
wisdom in doing so becomes clear as "Brother, I'm Dying" recounts day-to-day
life in Haiti: filled with violence and hardship caused by turnstile government
and changing allies.

Two years after his departure, a visa for Edwidge's mother is granted. A
4-year-old Edwidge and her younger brother await their own visas and are left in
the care of their paternal uncle, Joseph, a Christian pastor, and his wife. They
will wait in Haiti for the next eight years.

Although this immigrant family will weather larger heartbreaks, some of the most
affecting passages are of Edwidge's dual devotion to a father she does remember
and an uncle who is not her father: her uncle smiles and nods "yes" to a bank
teller who asks whether Edwidge is his daughter; an older cousin tells Edwidge
over and over again the memory of André bringing home favorite cookies to
Edwidge when she was a toddler.

"Brother, I'm Dying" spans generations, but begins and ends in 2004, as the
intricate bonds among a daughter and her two "papas" come to a complicated end.
Edwidge, now 35, finds she is pregnant just hours after her father is diagnosed
with end-stage pulmonary fibrosis. The family rallies around André, but it is
his brother, Edwidge's Uncle Joseph, who will lose his life first.

In Haiti, the 81-year-old Joseph is caught between the dangerous gangs that have
taken over his town and overzealous United Nations forces meant to stop them.
Joseph's home and church are looted and destroyed. Joseph arrives luckily,
safely and legally at the Miami airport, but is snagged by Customs and Homeland
Security. He dies from inadequate medical care within a few days, under
suspicion, shackled and alone. As a final insult to a lifetime of beneficence,
he is buried in the United States.

When André dies shortly thereafter, he shares a tombstone with Joseph. "Brother
I'm Dying" bears witness to these two men, who lived opposite sides of the
immigration question and together raised a daughter in both worlds.

---

'Brother, I'm Dying' A memoir by Edwidge Danticat Published by Knopf, 272 pages,
$23.95

---

Holly Silva is a St Louis writer.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Review  o  Memoir Books

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (Book cover: 'Brother, I'm Dying' by Edwidge Danticat)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Programs work with uneducated immigrants Some of the students are unable to read
or write in their native languages.

BYLINE: By Heather Hollingsworth The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


Before Bob Jansen can teach English to the adult immigrants in his lowest level
class, he has to show about a quarter of them how to hold a pencil.

"It takes a lot of patience to teach this class," Jansen said before his
students recited the alphabet and practiced vowel sounds in a recent phonics
lesson at the Don Bosco Community Center.

Adult education teachers such as Jansen are finding themselves starting from
scratch as uneducated immigrants and refugees from conflict regions of Africa
and rural areas of Mexico and Central America flock to the United States.

Jansen's students are among an estimated 400,000 legal and 350,000 illegal
immigrants who are unable to read or write even in their native languages,
according to a July 2007 report from the Migration Policy Institute, an
independent Washington think tank.

In one recent session, Jansen drew male and female stick figures on the dry
erase board and taped pictures of different modes of transportation alongside
the sketches. Students crafted sentences such as, "He is on the orange
airplane."

A group of five Somali women clad in long head scarves talked as they worked.
The class also serves immigrants from other African counties as well as Latin
America, Asia and the Middle East.

One of the students, Rebeka Goup, had attended no school in her native Sudan
before immigrating to the United States in 2000.

"I need to learn English to talk to people," she said. Her English remains
broken after seven years in the United States, but she is one of the most fluent
students in the class. Asked in English where they are from, many of Goup's
classmates instead offer their names or addresses.

These immigrants, some of whom attended school for the first time in refugee
camps, tend to flounder in classes that include students who have attended
school in their native countries.

And service providers such as the Don Bosco Center complain that they are being
penalized for the slow progress these students make and discouraged from
offering separate classes for them. That's because more states are looking at
student performance as they decide how to distribute federal dollars to programs
that teach English to adult immigrants.

"One hand of the government is letting preliterate people come here as
refugees," said David Holsclaw, director of Don Bosco Community Center's English
as a Second Language Program, which serves about 2,500 students a year, "and
another hand of the government is making it hard to serve them because they want
to tie our funding to testing."

The reason these uneducated immigrants struggle is easy to understand, said
Barbara Van Horn, co-director of the Goodling Institute for Research in Family
Literacy at Pennsylvania State University.

"If someone is literate in one language, they will be aware of the concepts of
books, words, putting the words together into sentences, reading those sentences
and understanding so you find out what is being written," she said.

Not so with people who aren't literate in a first language.

"They haven't made the connection between their oral language and the fact that
what is printed, those letters represent sounds that are used to make up words.
They don't have that basic understanding of what literacy is about."

Cheryl Keenan, director of adult education and literacy with the U.S. Department
of Education, said the assertion that immigrants with little to no ability to
read or write in any language made slower progress than more educated students
was overstated. She noted that the completion rate for adult immigrants in the
lowest-level classes was greater than for the highest-level classes.

But she readily acknowledged that service providers were "quite challenged in
how to address the instructional needs of these beginning literacy students."

Service providers first began noticing large numbers of unschooled immigrants
after the Vietnam War when throngs of Laotian Hmong war refugees arrived with no
traditional written language.

But most programs were slow to respond to their needs, said Heide Spruck
Wrigley, a nonresident fellow with the Center for Immigrant Integration Policy,
based in Washington.

She said the latest immigration influx, which includes many immigrants with low
levels of schooling, had refocused attention on nonliterate immigrants.

According to the Migration Policy Institute, the number of foreign-born adults
with less than a fifth-grade education increased 25 percent, to 2.18 million in
2000 from 1.74 million immigrants in 1990, and then dipped 2 percent to 2.12
million immigrants in 2006.

Wrigley said programs seeking to serve the lowest-level students knew more about
what worked and what didn't than they did after the Vietnam War, thanks to new
research. But programs continue to struggle.

Service providers are under pressure to maintain large classes and often lack
enough nonliterate students for a separate class. Often, the nonliterate
students are lost as soon as the teacher writes a sentence on the board.

Wrigley said the result was that many of the immigrants most in need of
education dropped out, convinced they're not as smart because their classmates
find it so much easier to learn to read and write in English.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Juma Kennedy, from Tanzania, spells out a word in a recent class for
immigrants at the Don Bosco Community Center in Kansas City.  The Associated
Press (St. Charles First edition photo, D12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Senate confirms head of immigration agency

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Julie L. Myers as director of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, two years after President George W. Bush appointed her to
the position amid questions about her qualifications to lead the government's
second-largest law enforcement agency.

Myers was among more than 30 people whose appointments were approved by a voice
vote.

Bush had used a recess appointment in 2005 to put Myers, then 36, in charge of
ICE, the branch of the Homeland Security Department that enforces immigration
laws, when the Senate appeared unlikely to confirm her. Although she was a
former Treasury official and assistant U.S. attorney, lawmakers debated whether
she had enough experience.

Critics also noted her personal connections within the Bush administration. She
was engaged - and is now married - to John F. Wood, who was chief of staff to
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and is now the U.S. attorney in
Kansas City. Retired Air Force Gen. Richard B. Myers, former chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, is her uncle.

Her appointment ran into trouble again this fall when she gave the "most
original" costume award to a white employee who came to the agency's Halloween
party dressed as an escaped prisoner with dreadlocks and darkened skin. The
incident drew complaints of racial insensitivity and elicited an apology from
Myers.

Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., the Senate's most vocal opponent of Myers'
permanent appointment as head of ICE, placed a hold on her nomination after the
Halloween incident. The senator's spokeswoman, Adrianne Marsh, said McCaskill
"still believes Julie Myers isn't focused enough on employer enforcement and
she's not the right pick, but there simply were not enough votes to oppose her
nomination."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Demagoguery times two

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 639 words


In Missouri today, roughly 770,000 people lack health insurance. The state's 5.6
percent unemployment rate is painfully above the national average. Our young
people pay too much to attend second-rate state universities. Our motorists
bounce along highways that have been rated the third-worst in the nation. The
public schools cry out for funding.

Last year, 372 people were murdered in Missouri, 1,600 were forcibly raped and
7,600 robbed. Nearly 26,000 vehicles were stolen.

But what were our two leading candidates for governor talking about last week?
Were they proposing solutions for those problems?

Of course not. Republican Gov. Matt Blunt and Attorney General Jay Nixon, his
presumptive Democratic challenger, were in a dissing match over which man is
tougher on foreign-born dishwashers, farm hands and drywall hangers who live
peacefully here without green cards.

When will the candidates admit that illegal immigration is not a major problem
in Missouri? It is an emotional issue to be sure, but it has virtually no effect
on the lives of our citizens. The campaign for governor should be waged over
things that matter.

Mr. Blunt, his eye on the polls, began the immigrant-bashing this summer, and
he's been ratcheting it up ever since. Last week, he proposed forbidding cities
from declaring themselves "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants. No Missouri town
has such status, but why should that matter? He also wants to make it illegal
for undocumented aliens to obtain drivers licenses, which already is illegal.

Mr. Blunt also wants towns and school districts to check their employee rolls
for illegal immigrants, although current federal law requires proof of legal
residence to be hired. He wants to make it a state crime to transport immigrants
for nefarious purposes, although federal law forbids basically the same thing,
and he wants to toughen penalties on state contractors who hire illegal
immigrants. He's already training Highway Patrol officers to double as
immigration agents.

No sooner had the governor held his press conference than his nemesis piped up.
Mr. Nixon boasted about a fine of nearly $1 million extracted from a contractor
who hired undocumented workers on a construction project at the Lake of the
Ozarks.

Next, the candidates' spokesmen jumped into the fray, each accusing the
opposition of going easy on illegal immigrants. With all the ballyhoo, you'd
think Missouri was being overrun by Pancho Villa's army.

No one knows how many undocumented people live in Missouri, but the percentage
is tiny. The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which seeks to limit
immigration, estimates that there may be about 65,000 undocumented aliens in
Missouri, a little more than 1 percent of the state population of 5.8 million.
Statemaster.com, a Web-publishing group, puts the number at about a third of a
percent, or 20,000, citing a federal study from 2000. Other immigration groups
say the true number is too small to estimate. The Department of Homeland
Security says it simply doesn't know.

There is no evidence that illegal immigrants present a criminal threat. In fact,
studies indicate that young adult immigrants tend to commit fewer crimes than
the native-born. Mainly, they come here to work and send money back home to
their families.

Mr. Nixon and Mr. Blunt are engaging in demagoguery, and that's a disgrace. Both
men virtually ignored the issue until this year, when they discovered that
illegal immigrant-bashing plays well in the polls. By harping on a subject with
racial implications, they encourage profiling and spread discomfort among our
neighbors with foreign accents or brown skin.

Missouri faces some serious problems. Our citizens deserve to hear a debate on
ways to improve health care and education, lower crime and raise jobs. Instead
we're getting double-barrelled demagoguery.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our View  |  IMMIGRATION OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The immigrant

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 336 words


Jesus Mendoza works at an area welding company. He has insurance. He drives a
Honda minivan. He lives in a decent home along Morganford Road in St. Louis. He
goes to church regularly. He pays taxes.

His life seems typically American. And yet until very recently, Mendoza, 31, was
an illegal immigrant.

Mendoza came to the United States from Mexico in 1997. For $1,000, a broker made
all the arrangements.

He and others swam a river near Tijuana and then were smuggled through a series
of interchanges "like trafficking." Over several days he made his way to St.
Louis.

Here, Mendoza began piecing together a new life. He met his wife, a legal
resident, at St. Francis De Sales church. They now live with their two sons,
10-year-old Louie and 3-year-old Adrian. Mendoza has learned English from
co-workers and through classes.

He says he didn't come here to smuggle drugs, scam the system or any of the
other stereotypes that immigration advocates decry. "I had a dream," he says. "I
came here for a better life."

A few years ago, he sought a lawyer and applied for a visa. Eventually he was
told he would have to return to his hometown, Guadalajara, Mexico, for up to 10
years, as punishment of sorts.

But he applied for special "forgiveness," and because of his clean record and
regular work history only had to wait in Mexico for about a year. He returned
Jan. 12, visa in hand.

It was a poor existence that he left behind. There, he sometimes didn't even
have enough money for food. He says his motivations for coming to the United
States were not that different from those of European immigrants of generations
past.

And he has sympathy for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in
this country, most of them from Latin America. He was one not that long ago.

"I don't like when the U.S. government tries to put restrictions on us here -
you can't work, you can't get a drivers license, you can't go to the hospital.

"I think we are people just like other people, just our mistake was to come here
without papers."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ISSUES 2008 IMMIGRATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Jesus Mendoza gets his son Adrian, 3, suited up to head outside Monday
at their home in St. Louis.  Mendoza recently became a U.S. citizen after living
and working for almost 10 years as an illegal immigrant from Guadalajara,
Mexico.  John L. White | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

KC mayor: Minuteman board member spurred needed dialogue in city

BYLINE: By Maria Sudekum Fisher The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


The controversy spurred by the appointment to the parks board of a member of the
Minuteman Civil Defense Corps brought up an unexpected but necessary dialogue
about immigration in Kansas City, Mayor Mark Funkhouser said Wednesday.

"When I was running for election in Kansas City I thought (immigration) was a
national issue," Funkhouser said. "But, on the other hand, what I have learned
is that it is also a neighborhood issue. There are multiple sides to this
issue."

He said that immigration was not a top priority in his administration but that
"it matters to the city, and it matters in the neighborhoods."

Funkhouser, who spoke on a telephone conference call from Washington, said his
appointment of Frances Semler, 74, to the Kansas City Parks and Recreation Board
last July opened a dialogue about immigration that the city might not have had
otherwise.

"It might be a difficult conversation," he said. "But I think it's one we needed
to have."

Semler has been a member since December 2006 of the Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps, an Arizona-based organization that advocates patrolling of the Mexican
border and reports illegal immigrants to authorities.

She resigned from the parks board late Monday after months of protests from
minority advocacy groups, including the National Council of La Raza, which voted
in October to cancel plans to hold its 2009 convention in Kansas City because of
Semler's membership in the Minutemen.

Last week, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference said it also had decided
to move its convention from Kansas City to New Orleans and called on other
organizations to boycott Kansas City.

Funkhouser said he did not know who would replace Semler on the parks board. He
said that although he would accept applications from anyone, it was "extremely
unlikely" he would appoint another member of the Minuteman organization.

"I'm going to interview folks, and quite a few of us will be Googling the
person's name," Funkhouser said. "I won't do a litmus test, per se. ... But it's
extremely unlikely that I will appoint someone who is a member of the Minuteman.

"I'm not trying to deal with immigration through the parks."

In her letter, Semler said that she felt betrayed and that Funkhouser's support
of her had waned. Semler had offered her resignation to Funkhouser after the
controversy erupted several months ago. But Funkhouser then refused, saying he
supported Semler's right to free speech and association.

Funkhouser said Wednesday that he was surprised by Semler's resignation, which
she announced late Monday night.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 1, 2008 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 446 words


LAS VEGAS

Bush hints he may slow Iraq troop reductions

President George W. Bush said Thursday he will not jeopardize security gains in
Iraq by withdrawing U.S. forces too fast, another signal that troop reductions
could slow or stop altogether this summer.

The U.S. troop commitment is expected to be down to roughly 130,000 to 135,000
by July, the same number as before Bush sent in reinforcements a year ago.

Bush spoke about Iraq, Afghanistan and a need to extend the domestic wiretapping
law during a three-day swing through California, Nevada, Colorado and Missouri
to highlight themes of his State of the Union address and raise an estimated
$4.7 million for Republicans at the four stops combined.

WASHINGTON

Group denounces tone of immigration debate

A national Latino group said Thursday it is fighting back against what it
considers to be "hate speech" that has emerged from the debate over immigration.

National Council of La Raza President Janet Murguia announced plans to pressure
television network executives and candidates seeking their parties' presidential
nominations to clamp down on such remarks.

The group launched a website to counter the speech, www.wecanstopthehate.org,
with clips of what it considers offensive comments on television as well as a
tracking of hate crimes.

Some of the remarks the Hispanic group identified included referring to
immigrants as an "army of invaders" or an "invading force" and accusing
immigrants of bringing crime and diseases such as leprosy to the U.S.

ATMORE, ALA.

Supreme Court puts hold on execution

A murderer scheduled to die in what would have been the nation's first execution
in months won a last-minute reprieve Thursday from the U.S. Supreme Court,
prison officials said.

James Harvey Callahan had been set to die at 6 p.m. at Holman Prison. It would
have been the nation's first execution since Sept. 25, the day the U.S. Supreme
Court agreed to consider whether lethal injection is cruel and unusual
punishment.

OMAHA, NEB.

Boy in teacher-sex case may return from Mexico

A 14-year-old boy who fled to Mexico with his former teacher will be allowed to
return to the United States for a year, his lawyer said Thursday.

The Department of Homeland Security has granted the boy, an illegal immigrant,
humanitarian parole, according to a letter sent to his lawyer, Amy Peck.

"(The boy) is going home," Peck told reporters. "At the very least, he gets to
speak about what happened to him."

The boy's former teacher, Kelsey Peterson, 25, of Lexington, Neb., remains in
federal custody. She pleaded not guilty in November to federal charges of
crossing a border to have sex with a minor and faces 10 years to life in prison
if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Economy is top issue on voters' minds Other concerns of bistate Democrats,
Republicans were war, immigration, health care, exit polls show.

BYLINE: By Deirdre Shesgreen Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The sagging economy trumped the war, health care, immigration and other issues
in driving Missouri and Illinois voters to the polls on Tuesday, exit surveys
showed.

Democrats and Republicans alike cited pocketbook issues as their biggest concern
as they cast ballots in Tuesday's presidential primary contests.

About half of Democratic voters in Missouri and Illinois said the economy was
the most important issue facing the country; more than 40 percent of Republicans
in the two states gave that same answer.

That dynamic favored Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., in both states, and appeared to
boost Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton in Missouri and Sen. Barack Obama in Illinois.

The Iraq war ran a distant second for many voters, although health care ranked
second among Missouri Democrats.

The voter survey, sponsored by media outlets and conducted by Edison/Mitofsky,
was based on interviews with Missouri and Illinois voters as they left the
polls.

The survey had a relatively low response rate in Missouri, due to bad weather in
parts of the state. But the findings still shed light on one of the most closely
watched among the two dozen states voting on Tuesday.

Indeed, the results in both Illinois and Missouri reflected a dramatic
nationwide shift in voter attitudes. As conditions in Iraq have improved, the
once-dominant war has receded, while economic concerns have spiraled amid the
housing crisis and stock market turmoil.

"The trend we've seen all month, from state to state, is that the economy is
coming to the forefront," said David Redlawsk, a professor of political science
at the University of Iowa. "Often when it comes down to finally voting, people
think about their pocketbook and it's fed at the moment by objective measures."

In the Missouri Democratic contest, exit poll results showed that voters citing
the economy as a top concern favored Clinton, D-N.Y., slightly, 51 to 42
percent. Redlawsk said that margin is not surprising, given that the two
candidates did not clash as bitterly over the economy as they did over the war
and other issues.

Among those voters most concerned about the war, Obama, D-Ill., snagged a strong
majority. The two White House hopefuls were closely matched among Missouri
voters who cited health care as their top concern.

In Illinois, native son Obama won significant majorities among all those voting
segments.

Among Missouri Republicans, voters most worried about pocketbook issues split
almost evenly between McCain and ex-Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, with former
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee close behind. Those Republican voters favored McCain
strongly in Illinois.

Romney argued that his business background made him the right candidate to steer
a faltering economy. But McCain likely fared well among voters who said the
economy wasn't going well because he's seen as more of a "change agent" than
Romney, said Redlawsk, the Iowa political science professor. And Huckabee's
populist economic message also clearly struck a chord.

McCain won significant margins among voters who cited the war as a top concern,
an issue that almost sank the Arizona senator's campaign early on, when the
violence in Iraq was regularly making front-page news and voters were intensely
focused on the conflict.

Romney fared well among those Missourians most concerned with illegal
immigration, an issue he has been hammering on throughout the campaign.

Nearly one-fifth of Republicans in Missouri listed the war as their top concern,
just ahead of the number citing immigration. Twenty percent of Illinois
Republicans said the war was the top issue, while 19 percent cited immigration.

Huckabee trailed his two main GOP rivals on most issues in Illinois, but he was
more competitive in Missouri, where 65 percent of GOP voters described
themselves as conservatives.

PARTY DIFFERENCES

The exit poll results reflect dramatically different dynamics playing out in the
two parallel contests. Obama tried to frame the Democratic race as a choice
between change and the status quo, while Clinton tried to emphasize her
experience to lead in an uncertain time.

So it's no surprise that among Missouri Democrats surveyed, those who cited
change as a driving factor in their presidential pick chose Obama over Clinton
by 64 percent to 33 percent. Clinton won overwhelmingly - more than 90 percent -
among those who said having the "right experience" was most important. Those
results were mirrored in Illinois.

In Missouri, Clinton was edging Obama out among women in early exit poll
tallies; he won majorities of male and female voters in Illinois.

Obama also won among black voters by wide margins in both states, a constituency
that has slowly but markedly shifted to his camp as the race unfolded. Early
exit poll results showed Clinton held an edge among white voters in Missouri,
but not in Illinois.

Among Republicans, Romney and Huckabee have been vying for the mantle of true
conservative, playing off the deep suspicion McCain faces among voters in the
party's right flank.

That strategy worked in Missouri, but not necessarily to Romney's advantage.
Huckabee won 40 percent of voters who described themselves as evangelicals, to
Romney's 28 percent and McCain's 24 percent, the preliminary exit polls showed.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Super Tuesday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

The view from Global Foods: How immigrants see an American tragedy Kirkwood
shooting

BYLINE: By Georgina Gustin ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: KIRKWOOD


It looked like a normal Saturday here. Sort of.

People strolled the sidewalks, past the ice cream store and the coffee shop,
pushing strollers and walking their bulldogs and basset hounds.

At the train station in the center of town, passengers stepped off arriving
trains, carrying suitcases and glancing around for their rides. Kids played in a
small park named for a fallen police officer near the police station.

But on this sunny day in suburbia, things were a little different. Not even 48
hours ago, an enraged city resident had walked into a City Council meeting and
gunned down five people before being killed by police. By Friday afternoon, the
story had slipped from the national news. Already.

But in Kirkwood a pile of cellophane-wrapped flowers mounted on the steps of
City Hall amid tiny American flags and messages of sympathy. Flags flew at
half-staff. A church bell rang slowly. Groups of mourners gathered on the
sidewalks.

And just down the street from City Hall, in the heart of this all-American town,
people from around the world tried to make sense of an all-American tragedy.

Saturday is a big day at Global Foods. The aisles of the supermarket - not
labeled "soda" or "cereal," as in a typical supermarket, but "India" or
"Germany" or "Japan" - buzz with immigrants and expatriates who come from around
the region to buy a little bit of their culinary roots, from adobo to Zwieback,
from calaloo to lotus root.

In the aisle marked "Brazil," Eduardo Bzerra and his wife, Andrea, shopped for a
few little things that remind them of home.

"You try to connect to your country with food," he said, standing under the
Brazilian flag hanging above the aisle. "It could be a cake, or it could be a
drink." Like guarana, he said, pointing to cans of the juice in his cart.

The couple and their children just moved to Chesterfield this week, where they
learned immediately of a slaying there. Now this.

"I can tell you that some cities, like Rio de Janeiro, are much more violent
than St. Louis," he said in Brazilian-accented English. "But there are more
robberies. Not this kind of thing where people go crazy and shoot. These are
really scary."

Standing in the Thailand aisle next to the coconut milk, Merlyn Cooper and his
Thai wife, Jeanie, shook their heads.

"It seems like it happens every week in this country. It's tied to
accessibility. People can get guns," he said. "She doesn't understand it. In
Thailand, you can't get guns."

Thousands of miles away from Southeast Asia, in war-torn Lebanon, Tony Ziade was
struck by a sniper as he walked the streets of Beirut.

"Here it's guns," he said as he shopped Saturday. "There it's automatic rifles,
bombs. There it's religion, here it's race."

Ziade and his wife, Layla, stood under the Lebanese flag, next to bags of
bulghur and couscous. "This is our aisle," he said, proudly, as Layla put fava
beans and a can of tahini in their cart. "This is our flag."

The couple emigrated to the St. Louis area about four years ago, to get away
from war.

"That's why we came here. I don't want my kids to see that," Layla said. The
other day, when she heard the news of the Kirkwood shootings, she turned to her
husband. "Now we live scared, too," she said to him. "It follows us."

In the India aisle, Raghu and Lavanya Vangala, of Hyderabad, in south-central
India, shopped with their 3½-year old, Rewa.

"In India there are knife stabbings, but no guns," Raghu said, pushing the cart
down the aisle as a pregnant Lavanya walked beside him.

A few aisles away, Theresa Montgomery, a Pole who married an American, shopped
with her son, Luke. "This society's very cruel," she said, in a thick Polish
accent. "What I see here is aggression. We don't have shootings [in Poland]. We
don't carry guns. Just police." She pushed her cart toward the aisle marked
Poland. "I miss it when I see all this stuff," she sighed.

Dielita Joseph and Chillot Dalencour, of Haiti, walked into the store Saturday
to get some rice. "He's not speaking English," Joseph said, pointing to her
husband. "I explain it to him - what I saw on TV. All the time you hear about
this. It's crazy."

Outside Global Foods, people from around the region made their pilgrimage to
Kirkwood, a city now transformed and bearing the familiar signs of collective
grief.

On the steps of City Hall, a father nudged his young son forward, urging the boy
to leave behind a bouquet of flowers. A few steps away, a banana nut
bread-scented candle burned next to a teddy bear dressed in firefighter's gear.
Around the corner, at the police station, the city's young people wrote notes of
strength and love in loopy handwriting, drawing little hearts in red ink on
placards. One message quoted Mother Teresa, the Albanian nun who brought food to
impoverished children on streets of Calcutta.

"Love is a fruit in season," the message said. "Within reach of every hand."

Nearby, a few Kirkwood residents took photos of it all.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 17, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Contemporary Bosnian art has a fitting first exhibition

BYLINE: By David Bonetti POST-DISPATCH VISUAL ARTS CRITIC

SECTION: A&E; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1349 words


History and culture are marked by human migrations, both forced and by choice.
You don't have to go back to ancient history to look for diasporas, however.
They are happening now as well. Immigration is a hot topic this election year.

One of the most disheartening diasporas in recent years was the result of
so-called ethnic cleansing in Bosnia that took place from 1992 to 1995 during
that particularly violent episode of Yugoslavia's civil war. People were killed
because of their religion and ethnicity in an ostensibly modern European nation.
After 50 years of hearing the slogan "never again," it happened again. Genocide
occurred in Europe.

About 50,000 Bosnians, the largest population of displaced Bosnians in the
world, ended up in St. Louis. In the decade they have been here, they have
re-created communities and contributed to the larger metropolitan economy and
culture.

Jeffrey Hughes of the Webster University art department, with independent
curator Dana Turkovic, decided to use their presence as an opportunity to take a
look at contemporary Bosnian art.

The seven artists they chose suggest the Bosnian diaspora's geographic range:
Two live in St. Louis; one in New York City; one in London; one in Stockholm,
Sweden; and one in Dubai. Only one lives in Sarajevo, Bosnia's capital city.

In an introductory text, Hughes writes that "the majority of works in
"Odavde/Otuda" suggest a state of being caught in between times, cultures or
locales."

The displacement expressed in their art is mirrored in the exhibition's title,
which translates as "From here/From there," linguistic markers of belonging or
not belonging.

The Bosnians expelled from majority Serb areas were Muslim and call themselves
Bosniak. The only surviving historical Muslim population in Europe, they are a
legacy of the long-term domination of the Balkans by the Ottoman Empire.

Hughes writes: "The Bosnian experience is fraught with binary oppositions:
Muslim/Orthodox Christian; Serb/Bosniak; communist/capitalist;
Ottoman/Austro-Hungarian; tradition/modern; from here/from there."

The displacement-misplacement paradox is brilliantly captured in the exhibition
in Damir Niksic's video "If I Wasn't Muslim." Based on the song "If I Were a
Rich Man" from "Fiddler on the Roof," it presents an otherwise happy peasant who
laments his fate: to be a Muslim in Christian Europe.

He questions God about why he placed the Bosniaks in Europe, which is otherwise
thoroughly Christian. He pleads with him, "Don't let our children go through the
horrors we went through just because they call you Allah."

He ends with the plaint, "If I were Christian, I wouldn't have to prove I was
human, too!" All to Tevye's bouncy beat.

The work is infectious and amusing. It has been viewed about 160,000 times on
YouTube. Sometimes you can make your political point best with humor.

None of the other works is funny.

St. Louis-based artist Alen Basics has created a memorial to the 31 members of
his family killed during three horrible months in 1992. Their names are simply
noted on panels that project from the wall in the order in which they were
killed.

Turkovic compares the work to Chris Burden's "Other Vietnam Memorial" that lists
millions of names of Vietnamese killed during what they call the American War.
Christian Boltanski's less-specific memorial pieces are also a reference. But
the power of Basics' work, based on his history, is dependent on no aesthetic
precedent.

Sejla Kameric's photo "Bosnian Girl" comes from anger provoked by bigotry. The
text "No teeth ...? A mustache ...? Smel Like (expletive) ...? Bosnia Girl!"
written artlessly over a photographic self-portrait is appropriated from
graffiti on a military barracks occupied by Dutch United Nations forces.

When the breakup of a country goes as badly as it did in the former Yugoslavia,
you have to ask whether what came before was so bad. In "Symbols of YU," St.
Louis-based artist Zlatko Cosic does just that. Using pre-civil war imagery
exclusively, he creates a video collage of touristic landmarks, statues of great
men, commemorative bank notes and stamps that carries more than a touch of
nostalgia. In his vision, Catholic and Orthodox church towers and Muslim
minarets appear together as characteristics of a unified country.

Other works deal with the here and now of everyday diasporan life. I really
don't get what Isak Berbic is trying to say, but that seems to be his case.

There's no doubt that Nebojsa Seric is feeling sad. Whether he is naturally sad
or his sadness is caused by his exile in New York City, we can't tell from his
video here. In any case, the artist stands on the banks of the East River near
the Brooklyn end of the Brooklyn Bridge, the skyline of lower Manhattan beyond
him. It is a gloomy day. He sings "Passover," a Joy Division song, arranged with
melancholy Middle Eastern tones.

One artist looking ahead is Margareta Kern, who has produced a series of
photographs of girls graduating from high school. They all wear copies of
fashion worn by celebrities, made by her mother, a seamstress in Banja Luka, a
town devastated during the war.

The pictures encapsulate the exhibition title. The girls are "from here" - Banja
Luka. The fashion is "from there" - not the place of the ominous "other," but
the world of style and sophistication. Equally important is that a milestone in
personal life is being passed. Young girls are turning into women. It happens
everywhere - it happens to boys, too - and its acknowledgment is a sign that
life goes on, even in lands where genocide occurred not so long ago.

Considering St. Louis' prominent place in the Bosnian diaspora, it is surprising
that this is the first local exhibition devoted to contemporary Bosnian art.

It is also a surprise that it occurs at Webster, which has not been known for
its commitment to the visual arts. May it present more exhibitions of similar
ambition in the future.

'The Interview'

As the show of Bosnian artists at Webster shows, the art world is increasingly
international. Though the Bosnian diaspora was involuntary, the result of
violence, most artist peregrinations are by choice. There is no such thing as a
"local artist" anymore.

Although it is only a couple of years old, Boots Contemporary Arts Space has
been providing the community a service with its international artists residency
program. Georgia Kotretsos of Greece created an installation there in 2006, as
did Beate Engl of Germany last year. Now, Isil Egrikavuk of Turkey has made a
work, "The Interview," that deals in part with international travel.

When you walk into the gallery, its small front room has been set up like the
antechamber of an airport where international travelers are interrogated and
processed. Stanchions organize those waiting in line, and the standard questions
about why the traveler is attempting to enter a foreign country are on the wall.

A video from the opening shows local journalist Anne-Marie Berger interviewing
gallerygoers. She asks them if they have had recent contact with animals, avian
flu virus being her real subject of interest.

Through the door is another video, this one of an Iraqi doctor doing medical
research in St. Louis to find a cure for the disease. Although the video
replicates the standard television interview convincingly, it is for the most
part a fiction. Egrikavuk's real interest seems to be how readily we accept as
fact falsehoods if they are presented in a standard professional manner.

Immigration and bird flu are just pretexts for her to express her skepticism
about journalism.

---

'Odavde/Otuda: An International Exhibition of Contemporary Bosnian Artists'

Where: Cecille R. Hunt Gallery, Webster University, 8342 Big Bend Boulevard

When: Through March 14

Hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday; until 8 p.m. Tuesday and
Wednesday

More info: 314-968-7171

---

Isil Egrikavuk: 'The Interview'

Where: Boots Contemporary Art Space, 2307 Cherokee Street

When: Through March 20

Hours: 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday

More info: 314-772-2667 or www.bootsart.com

---

Watch STLtoday.com/visualarts See Damir Niksic's video "If I Wasn't Muslim."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  A PLACE FOR THE DISPLACED

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - ABOVE: Damir Niksic's video, "If I Wasn't Muslim." It has been viewed
about 160,000 times on YouTube.  LEFT: Isak Berbic's C-print of his uncle's
tooth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 17, 2008 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A throwback fighter with Middleweight contender John Duddy enhances popularity
with his Irish followers by supporting immigration reform.

BYLINE: By Dave Skretta The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


John Duddy broke into a wide grin, yanking the fluffy white beard off his chin.
Here was Ireland's own, back home in Derry in December, dressed in a ridiculous
Santa Claus outfit and smiling like a 3-year-old just woken up on Christmas
morning.

This is the promising fighter with the punishing punches and the unblemished
record? This is the guy who sells out Madison Square Garden whenever he steps
between the ropes, who's built a following in America's biggest city that
reminds old-timers of a bygone era?

Turns out there's more to this middleweight contender than meets the eye -
which, at the moment, would seem like quite a statement.

"He does so much for other people," said Adele McCourt, who works for the city
of Derry, recalling the Santa getup to benefit charity. "Everybody loves him,
very much so."

Similar sentiments are felt across the pond, where the adopted New Yorker has
created a massive following among the city's Irish immigrant population.

He's a reminder of boxing's "Golden Era," when big fights would draw tens of
thousands to Yankee Stadium and Chicago Stadium. When Sugar Ray Robinson waged
his epic battles against the likes of Kid Gavilan and Jake LaMotta. And perhaps
most important, when the city's melting pot would magically divide for a big
fight, with Italians, Portuguese and Germans each backing their own.

"It is like a throwback, when New York was really the center of the Earth," said
Duddy, who will fight unheralded Walid Smichet on the undercard of the Wladimir
Klitschko-Sultan Ibragimov heavyweight title fight next Saturday at Madison
Square Garden. "I think whenever I came along there was nothing there at all for
the Irish-American and the Irish man to support.

"The night before the soccer match (last year), when the Republic played at
Giants Stadium, New York was green for a week," he continued. "I came along at a
time when my people wanted to see one of our own. They have a good drink, a good
sing and a good laugh."

That unabashed love is one of the reasons Duddy has thrown his support to the
New York-based Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform, attending meetings and
wearing a T-shirt into the ring promoting the group's website,
legalizetheirish.org.

The group estimates there are 50,000 undocumented Irish workers in the United
States, lost in the shuffle of illegal immigrants from other parts of the globe
and the bureaucracy that comes with applying for green cards and citizenship.

In 2006, the Irish were granted 2,038 green cards, and 1,754 became U.S.
citizens, according to the most recent data available from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Those numbers are on par with countries like Armenia and
Belarus, and pale in comparison to the nearly 84,000 naturalized Mexicans and
47,500 from India.

"What we're seeing now is 20,000 immigrating to Australia each year that would
come to the U.S. if they could come legally," said Kelly Finchem, executive
director of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform. "Irish people come to the
U.S. almost reflexively."

The group has political support from both sides of the aisle, and appears
well-positioned for the November election. Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton have both expressed support for immigration reform, as has Republican
front-runner John McCain.

It was McCain who attended a rally in the Bronx a couple of years ago in support
of the McCain-Kennedy Immigration Bill, a comprehensive reform package that
included a temporary guest worker program and provisions that would have allowed
undocumented immigrants a chance to work toward citizenship. The bill made it
through the Senate but died in the House.

Duddy also attended that town hall meeting and was asked to pose a question to
McCain.

"The moderator said we have a question from John Duddy, a couple thousand stand
up and give him a standing ovation," Finchem said. "I'm sure Sen. McCain was
wondering what was going on."

Duddy downplays his role in the campaign. He readily admits he doesn't
understand politics in the States but figures if his people support him, the
least he can do is support them.

Besides, the dashing young Irishman has had his own problems with the
immigration service.

Realizing from a young age he wanted to be a professional boxer, Duddy moved to
New York about four years ago in search of better trainers and better
competition. When he went home for a visit, he learned he had overstayed his
visa. It took months of wrangling to trim the red tape that allowed him to
return to the U.S.

"People who come to work and are good citizens and didn't fill out the right
paperwork, I look at it as personal," Duddy said through a thick brogue. "But
again, I'm not a big influence on it. I wear a T-shirt and appear at some
events. I sort of look at myself as everybody else."

But he's unlike anybody else when he pulls on those green Everlast gloves.

Duddy's straightforward, no-messing-around style has ended 17 of his 23 fights
by knockout, and extended his cult status beyond just his Irish brethren.

When Duddy headlined the "Erin Go Brawl" card last March, busloads of fans
flooded the Theater at Madison Square Garden. Duddy battered and bloodied
Anthony Bonsante for nine of the scheduled 12 rounds in retaining the IBA
middleweight title and capturing the vacant WBC Continental Americas crown.

"I want to excite and I don't want to hang around. I want to see if he can take
what I have to offer," said Duddy, who enjoys an otherwise quiet life, playing
the guitar and reading literature. "In the ring, I don't see any point
dilly-dallying around."

Duddy might soon be taking a big step up in class, though, and many wonder how
that style will translate against more refined opponents.

Promoter Eddie McLoughlin of Irish Ropes said an agreement is nearly in place
for Duddy to fight WBC and WBO middleweight champion Kelly Pavlik in June, most
likely in New York, assuming that his star gets past Smichet and that Pavlik's
fight against Jermain Taylor doesn't derail the deal.

McLoughlin can't imagine anything getting in the way of his Irish hope.

"It's looking good right now. You know everybody wants it," McLoughlin said of
the deal. "After all, the way to the world championship is through America."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  BOXING

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Ireland's John Duddy lands a left hand on Anthony "The Bullet" Bonsante
in their middleweight bout at Erin Go Brawl at Madison Square Garden last year.
The Associated Press    PHOTO - Duddy celebrates his victory over Bonsante while
showing his support for immigration reform.  The Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration has become touchy issue for McCain Conservatives demand a tough
stance; Hispanics want help.

BYLINE: By Julie Hirschfeld Davis the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON -


John McCain faces a dilemma on immigration as he works to persuade conservatives
he's tough enough on the issue without erasing his historic appeal to Hispanic
voters.

Once a crusader for offering the nation's roughly 12 million undocumented
immigrants a way to get legal status, McCain now says his first priority is
fortifying U.S. borders.

The metamorphosis reflects McCain's intensifying effort to consolidate his
support among conservatives, who deride the Arizona senator's past proposals on
immigration as offering amnesty to lawbreakers, and bitterly resent his work
with Democrats, including Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, on the issue.

Coming off a primary season where his immigration stance was seen as a major
liability and GOP opponents called his approach overly permissive, McCain is
remaking his image with an eye toward the general election.

If he goes too far in the other direction, though, he could alienate the
Hispanic voters on whom he's counting to siphon support from a Democratic rival
in states such as Arizona, Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico, and to be
competitive in California.

"He's focusing on enforcement, and in this community, enforcement means
deportation, and that means separating more families, and more racial profiling
and more of the incredible hardship that is affecting not just immigrants, but
native-born Latinos," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza.

McCain infuriated the Republican base when he teamed with GOP moderates such as
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., and Democrats led by Kennedy in 2006 to push
legislation - with backing from President George W. Bush - that would have given
illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. The measure didn't make it far.

Listen to McCain's speeches or look on his campaign website now, and there's
little mention of the fight to give illegal immigrants a way to stay in the
United States lawfully. He instead emphasizes border security - the catch phrase
of conservatives who scorned his earlier proposals.

It's a difference of emphasis, not a change in stance, Republican strategists
say.

"He's in an excellent place with conservatives who are concerned about
immigration, because his position - that he'll secure the border first and have
that security certified by the border-state governors, and then we'll go back
and deal with the 12 million - seems to have satisfied most people," said
Charlie Black, a McCain adviser.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration chief to resign; calls move unrelated to fees

BYLINE: the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The leader of the immigration agency that grants citizenship is stepping down
after a tenure in which he drastically increased the cost of becoming an
American but failed to reduce the amount of time people must wait.

Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said Thursday
that he would leave the job April 18. He recommended that Jonathan Scharfen, the
agency's deputy director, replace him. The White House will name his successor,
who must get Senate approval.

"I am very proud of the many accomplishments achieved by USCIS over the past two
years," Gonzalez said in a message to employees announcing his plans.

President George W. Bush had pledged in his 2000 campaign that immigrants would
wait no more than six months to become citizens or to get other immigration
benefits such as legal residency.

Gonzalez took over the agency in January 2006, facing a backlog of applications
that had worsened after the Sept. 11 attacks, when background checks for pending
applications were ordered redone.

By 2007, Gonzalez had reduced the average wait time for citizenship nationally
to about seven months, although about 1 million cases were not counted as part
of the backlog.

That progress disappeared last year after Gonzalez approved a drastic increase
in immigration fees that he said were needed to keep the agency afloat.

Immigrants trying to beat the fee increase swamped the agency with about
one-half million citizenship applications filed in July 2007 alone. As a result,
the agency said it would take 16 months to process.

Gonzalez said his departure was unrelated to criticism of the fee increase and
the delays in processing citizenship applications in an election year.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Home sweet home? Old North St. Louis group seeks to rebuild Mullanphy Emigrant
Home.

BYLINE: MATTHEW HATHAWAY

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 1047 words


Checking it Out

If it weren't for the generosity of a childless, 19th-century St. Louis mayor,
there almost certainly would be fewer Irish families marching under their
broods' banners at today's Dogtown parade.

Now might be the time for St. Louisans to repay the debt.

The Mullanphy Emigrant Home, at 1609 North 14th Street, was built in 1867 to
provide short-term shelter to poor, immigrant families coming to St. Louis or
headed west. Although there are no complete rolls of who stayed there,
historians believe thousands of immigrants found help at the Emigrant Home. Its
reputation was well known, and it helped cast an image back east of St. Louis as
a city friendly to immigrants.

Funding for the Emigrant Home came from a bequest of Bryan Mullanphy, whom the
editors of the Missouri Republican newspaper posthumously called "the erratic,
but noble-minded Irishman."

Mullanphy's family fortune was built by his father, John, St. Louis' first Irish
millionaire and one of the richest men of the West. Many of those struggling
immigrants cared for at the Emigrant Home hailed from the old sod, too, although
Bryan Mullanphy's will - radical at the time - stipulated that it must welcome
people of all nationalities and faiths.

After immigration slowed here, the three-story, red-brick building became a
school, then a factory, then a warehouse. In April 2006, a storm toppled much of
the building's south wall. The Old North St. Louis Restoration Group bought the
building with the hope of stabilizing it and, eventually, finding a new use for
it.

Disaster struck again on March 31, 2007, when another storm blew down much of
the east and north walls. The neighborhood group pressed on in the effort to
save the 141-year-old building.

Sean Patrick Thomas, the group's executive director, said there had been some
big improvements in the last year. Masonry workers - many working on donated
time - have been rebuilding the south wall. Engineers who have examined the
building say it's surprisingly solid despite damage from the storms and years of
neglect.

More than 200 individual and groups have donated money to the cause. The
Restoration Group has raised about $63,000 - plus more than $100,000 in donated
skilled labor - but more is needed. The group is only about halfway there. It
thinks about $350,000 would be enough to preserve the building.

The committee that organizes the downtown St. Patrick's Day parade appreciated
the building's link to St. Louis' Irish past, and it contributed about $3,000
last year to the preservation effort.

"If the ones who go through Dogtown want to take up the charge, I'd love to
encourage some friendly competition," Thomas said.

If the thought of such an important building wasting away gets your Irish up,
and your checkbook open, visit www.savemullanphy.org or call the Old North St.
Louis Restoration Group at 314-241-5031.

Red tape blocks path to Lewis & Clark

If federal regulators had subjected Meriwether Lewis and William Clark to the
red tape that's tying up improvements to a downtown sculpture honoring the
explorers, St. Louis might still be the capital of the American frontier.

Last month I wrote about the mess surrounding "The Captains' Return," a
23-foot-tall sculpture honoring the Corps of Discovery, situated on the St.
Louis wharf just south of the Eads Bridge. If there's a silver lining, it's that
spring flooding will keep the scene underwater and largely out of view for much
of the next couple months.

The sculpture was installed with fanfare in September 2006. Private donors paid
for it and secured the rafts of local, state and federal approvals that the
project needed. Last year, the same private donors decided it would be good to
put a paved walkway over some cobblestones so people can safely get a closer
look at the statue.

The city gave its approval, the donors found the money, contractors started
work, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers responded with a cease-and-desist
order.

When the work stopped, nobody cleaned up the mess. There's a wide pit where
workers were digging up cobblestones, and those stones are piled in three big
heaps. It looks awful. Backers of the pathway say they're eager to get back to
work.

The corps maintains that the proposed pathway - as well as a bench and some
lighting that donors considered adding - would significantly alter the project's
original design and, therefore, require a new federal permit. The corps insisted
that it would need weeks, maybe months, to study the proposal and run it past
the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Park Service and state
historic-preservation authorities.

It beats me, and the sculpture's backers, what possible concerns any of the
agencies might have. Could the bench be a navigational hazard? If people gather
near the statue, might the presence of life on the St. Louis riverfront
irrevocably confound the endangered pallid sturgeon?

Nancy Hawes, an attorney representing the sculpture's backers, said she met with
federal officials shortly after I wrote about the problem. Everything seemed
like it was going to be OK, she said.

"They assured me they would do everything they could to expedite the process,"
Hawes said. "Since then, we've received the first set of comments from the
National Park Service, and it's not promising."

The parks people are concerned that the pathway, which is intended to make it
easier to get over the cobblestones, wouldn't comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act.

They're right: It wouldn't. But it'd be a good deal more compliant with the
spirit of ADA than is the existing situation, which requires visitors to walk
over uneven, slippery and sometimes mud-strew cobblestones. Building an
ADA-compliant path on the wharf's steep incline and in an area that floods
regularly would be a challenge - and one that the feds seem uninterested in
funding.

WHO'S RESPONSIBLE

Col. Lewis F. Setliff III, St. Louis district commander for the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers - 314-331-8010 - Lewis.F.Setliff.Col@mvs02.usace.army.mil

---

Got a complaint?

If you can't get something fixed in your neighborhood or think bureaucrats are
giving you the brush-off, call us at 314-657-3396 or 800-365-0820, ext. 3396.

You can e-mail onyourside@ post-dispatch.com

On Your Side forum is online at STLtoday.com/ forums.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ON YOUR SIDE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; MAP
 PHOTO - The Mullanphy Emigrant Home, 1609 North 14th Street, lost much of its
south wall in a storm in April 2006, and another storm in March 2007 damaged the
east and north walls.  Post Dispatch file photo    PHOTO - The building as it
looked in 1867.  Historians believe thousands of immigrants  found help at the
Emigrant Home.    MAP - Mullanphy Emigrant Home Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

From Kabul to Fulton Translator aided U.S. Army colonel in Afghanistan in '03.
Roles flip as now-Westminster College president opens home to immigrant and his
family.

BYLINE: By Kavita Kumar ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: FULTON, MO.


Returning home after an overnight business trip to Dallas and a long day in his
new job as president of Westminster College, George "Barney" Forsythe is greeted
by 4-year-old Lima and 3-year-old Bahir as soon as he pulls into the garage.

"How was maktab?" he asks them excitedly, using the Dari word for "school" on a
recent evening. They cling to his legs playfully as they smile and shrug shyly,
not yet able to respond in English.

To them, Forsythe has become "kaka" - or "uncle" - and his wife, Jane, is now
"khala" - or "aunt."

Lima, Bahir and their 1-year-old sister, Marwar, who is sleeping upstairs, moved
in with the Forsythes two months ago, along with their parents, Sardar and
Breshna Sherzad. Brought together by the perils of war, they have now become an
extended family of sorts.

In 2003, Sardar Sherzad served as Forsythe's chief translator in Afghanistan.
Forysthe, then a U.S. Army colonel who later retired as a general, went there
for six weeks to help set up a national military academy.

About a year ago, Sherzad applied for a special visa to come to the U.S. as it
became increasingly dangerous for Afghan translators working with American
forces. Sherzad said many translators have been killed, some even beheaded.

"Everybody loves his country," said Sherzad, 29. "I love my country. I miss
Kabul. I miss the ups and downs of the streets of Kabul. But sometimes you are
obliged to leave something."

The situation was getting worse every day, he said. So Sherzad and his family
packed up whatever belongings they could fit in two suitcases and arrived in
this faraway town in the middle of Missouri in January.

They came under a special visa program for Afghan and Iraqi translators who
worked with the U.S. military. Admitted as permanent residents, they can
eventually become citizens.

On this pleasant night that hints of the spring to come, Lima and Bahir rush to
the backyard, where they play with stones and sticks, building a stove similar
to the one they had back home in Kabul.

Forsythe hands his jacket, then his tie, to his wife, who jokes that she is a
coat rack. He runs around and plays catch with the children. Sherzad comes
outside to watch this tranquil scene of domesticity.

"Salaam," Forsythe says to him, a bit out of breath. "How are you?"

"Good. Getting prepared," Sherzad replies, pointing to the driver's manual
folded in his hand. Sherzad has been studying all day to take the writing test
to get his license.

Getting his drivers license and learning how to navigate the strange, American
streets is one of many hurdles that await him and his family. Most pressing on
his mind, though, is the daunting task of finding a job so he can support his
family, move into their own home, and not have to rely on the Forsythes.

Forsythe also wants Sherzad and his family to live out the American dream and
become self-sufficient.

"But we've also become grandparents again," said Forsythe, 59, who has two grown
children and two grandchildren of his own. "This has been a real blessing for
us. We're becoming a little family here."

DANGEROUS DUTY

For six weeks in 2003, Sherzad helped Forsythe understand the ins and outs of
Afghan culture and the country's school system. Forsythe was drawing up plans to
literally build the Afghan army from the ground up.

"Sardar was my best teacher," Forsythe said.

At the time, Sherzad was a fourth-year student at Kabul Medical College whose
studies had been interrupted by the war. In search of money to support his
family during meager times, he signed up to be a translator, one of the most
lucrative jobs in the country.

Often fearing for his life, he continued to translate at the academy for four
years, long after Forsythe returned home to the U.S. Only his family knew he was
a translator. He told everyone else he was working with a non-governmental
organization - and when he left, that he was going to study in India on a
scholarship.

Sherzad asked the Americans he worked with to help him resettle in the U.S. When
Forsythe got his e-mail, he immediately invited Sherzad and his family to move
in with him. "I felt responsible for him," Forsythe said.

Sherzad was not sure what to expect in Fulton. He was worried it would be
crowded and hectic like New York, which he had visited in 2005 as part of his
work.

He sighed when he saw the quiet town with nice houses and clean streets. "This
is exactly what I was looking for," he said.

Once in Fulton, his first mission was obtaining the proper immigration papers -
a confusing and often frustrating process that left him feeling helpless at
times. U.S. immigration officials had taken all of Sherzad's documents at the
airport.

They consulted lawyers, visited offices in Jefferson City and made many phone
calls. They were told Sherzad would get his Social Security and green cards in
the mail in several weeks. But waiting for them to show up seemed an eternity.

Without a Social Security number, Sherzad could not get a job. And he was
beginning to feel restless and isolated, almost like a "prisoner," not used to
spending so much time at home with little to do, he said.

GOODBYE TO BURQA

As they waited for their papers, the Sherzads began to get acclimated to
American life and its abundance of fancy appliances and spongy bread.

One of their first lessons was doing the laundry. Jane Forsythe fondly recalls
how the Sherzads grabbed her hands and sat fascinated as they watched clothes
spin and swirl in the washing machine and dryer for the first time.

They were not quite as happy when they tasted American bread. So they ate
tortillas for breakfast instead. Later, they found nan - a flatbread they are
accustomed to - in a grocery store in Fulton. More recently, Breshna, 23, has
improvised a way to make nan at home by using a baking stone.

Inside the Forsythes' kitchen, note cards are taped to nearly every appliance
and cabinet. On them, they have written the English and Dari words for "bowl,"
"oven," "boil" and "teapot." When they can't find the right words, they point
and mimic.

Breshna Sherzad no longer wears the head-to-toe burqa she has worn her whole
life. She left hers at the airport in Kabul. These days, she wears a simple
scarf to cover her hair. It wasn't that she didn't like wearing the burqa, she
says through her husband because she doesn't speak English, but just that it was
not the custom in her new life.

"When in Rome, do as the Romans do," Sardar Sherzad said.

One of the family's favorite outings is going to the spacious and all
encompassing "Fulton bazaar" - or Wal-Mart.

"You can breathe and you can find many things there - from vegetables to clothes
and pillows," Sherzad said.

Finally, about a week ago, Sherzad's immigration papers showed up in the
mailbox. They celebrated in a very American way: They went out for Mexican food.

"Now I have to work to start my life," Sherzad said.

Initially, he is looking for a desk job. But if he can't find one, he is willing
to do manual labor.

He has given up his dream of becoming a doctor because he says he can't afford
to spend so much time in school to finish his training. Besides, his medical
school education in Kabul was antiquated, he admits, and will not transfer to
the U.S. One day, though, he hopes to go back to school so he get a job in
medical administration.

In the meantime, the Sherzads are planning to go with the Forsythes when they
move into the Westminster College president's house next month.

The Forsythes' eyes light up when thinking about getting tricycles - or big
wheels - for the children to ride in their new house's large circular drive.

"It's been a long time since we've had big wheels around here," Jane Forsythe
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Westminster College President George "Barney" Forsythe helps Lima
Sherzad, 4,  write her name in English at his home in Fulton, Mo. Forsythe, a
retired general, invited his former translator and family to live there.
Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch   PHOTO - Flashcards written in Dari and English
decorate common household items in the Forsythes' home to better the vocabulary
of both the Forsythes and the Sherzads.   Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 390 words


WASHINGTON

Richardson touts Obama in presidential race

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson endorsed Democrat Barack Obama for president on
Friday, saying he was deeply moved by Obama's speech this week on race in
America and that he's confident the first-term Illinois senator is prepared on
foreign policy and national defense.

Joining Obama at a campaign rally in Oregon, Richardson, who dropped his own
presidential bid earlier this year, said he was "particularly touched" by
Obama's words about tension between blacks and whites because, as a Hispanic, he
worries about the demonization of another minority class: immigrants.

The "real culprit" is President George W. Bush's economic policies, Richardson
said, adding that Obama "understands that a house divided against itself cannot
stand."

WASHINGTON

Citizenship applications prompt weekend hours

The Bush administration has begun holding weekend and after-hours interviews for
immigrants wanting to be Americans, responding to a heavy workload caused by
last summer's flood of citizenship applications.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, a Homeland Security Department agency, has
begun holding the interviews - the final step before taking the citizenship oath
- on Saturdays and Sundays and after business hours on weekdays. The interviews
are done by appointment only.

The agency received 1.4 million naturalization applications in fiscal 2007,
which ended Sept. 30.

WASHINGTON

Money in, money out for Clinton campaign

Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton lived hand to mouth during the rush of presidential
primaries while Democratic rival Sen. Barack Obama outspent her and put money in
the bank.

Federal Election Commission reports show Obama raised nearly $2 million per day
in February, which left him with $30 million in the bank for March.

Clinton had her best fundraising month as well, at $34.5 million. But counting
her debts to vendors, she ended with a net $3 million. And that's not factoring
the $5 million she lent her campaign and has not paid back.

The current respite between primaries - the next one is April 22 in Pennsylvania
- may cut back on some of the spending. It also denies the two campaigns the
head-to-head contests that drive fundraising.

Sen. John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, reported $8 million cash
on hand - $3 million of which is for the general election.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

So far, the Legislature seems ... relaxed Immigration and health care are among
issues moving at a stately pace.

BYLINE: By Chris Blank The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


With many of the state's lawmakers facing elections this year and many of the
legislative leaders term-limited, lawmakers moved at a casual pace during the
first half of a legislative session that resumes Tuesday after a spring break.

"This has been a slow session. There's no doubt about that," said House Speaker
Rod Jetton, who is among those departing. "And I kind of like it that way."

Just five bills - all spending items that weren't covered by last year's budget
- have passed, and some extra spending still has not cleared the Senate. That
means the House, which has yet to hold an afternoon session, could begin
debating next year's budget as the Senate finishes with the last of this year's
spending plan. The new budget must be approved by May 9.

Legislative leaders this session planned to consider cracking down on illegal
immigrants, extending property tax relief and expanding health insurance
coverage. Although the Senate passed a property tax bill, the other two issues
have faced opposition.

The health insurance program is a priority for Gov. Matt Blunt, but the House
members had concerns about it even before Blunt announced he wouldn't seek
re-election.

Immigration measures, meanwhile, have faced opposition from business groups,
which are concerned that lawmakers will add requirements and penalties on
employers. They have persuaded some Republicans to look for ways to go after
illegal immigration without affecting businesses.

For the third straight year, the House approved a bill requiring public colleges
and universities to certify to lawmakers that they aren't knowingly enrolling
illegal immigrants. But no Senate immigration proposals have made it to floor
debate.

Senate Majority Leader Charlie Shields said he's not sure exactly what that
chamber is going to do on that issue. Shields, R-St. Joseph, said it might be
possible to reach agreement on criminalizing the transport of illegal immigrants
for work and banning those not legally in the U.S. from receiving some public
benefits.

"We haven't gotten very far into the immigration issue, so I think that will
take a while," he said.

But Shields' bill to repeal the state limits on campaign donations is moving.
The Senate has approved it, and Jetton, R-Marble Hill, said he supports it.
Lawmakers last year removed the caps, but they were reinstated after the state
Supreme Court tossed out a law that included a provision removing the limit on
donations.

Senate Democrats splintered over the issue, but House Minority Leader Paul
LeVota said his caucus wants the caps to remain.

Lawmakers also plan to focus on updating state laws against harassment and
stalking, increasing pay for teachers and changing how judges are selected. But
debates about changing the state plan for picking judges and Jetton's bill to
increase teacher pay have been confined to committees.

The measure that would broaden what constitutes harassment to include Internet
or text messages has cleared the Senate, but it still must work its way through
the House. The measure was prompted by the 2006 suicide of a St. Charles County
teen who was teased on a social networking website.

Meanwhile, a proposed constitutional amendment barring court-ordered tax
increases is likely to resurface after lawmakers return. The House was poised to
pass the measure, but a vote was never taken because too many Republicans left
early for their spring break, leaving supporters without the enough votes to
pass it.

Legislation that has cleared the House includes a measure from LeVota,
D-Independence, meant to prevent Kansas from raising taxes on Missourians who
work across the border. Lawmakers last year repealed a state law that allows
those who live in another state but work in Missouri to subtract what they pay
in property taxes in their home state from the income on which they are taxed in
Missouri. Lawmakers in Topeka have threatened to retaliate.

The Missouri bill, which hasn't been debated in the Senate, would apply only if
the other state allows Missourians to do the same.

The session ends May 16.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fight that killed 1 immigrant leads to 10 years for other

BYLINE: By Heather Ratcliffe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: St. Louis


A violent encounter outside a bar ended the dream for two fathers who immigrated
to the United States years ago in hopes to build a better life.

While one died a violent death the night of July 2, 2006, the other's plans
crumbled Friday as a St. Louis Circuit Court judge sentenced him to 10 years in
prison.

Bekir Ademovic, 31, was convicted of voluntary manslaughter in the death of a
Sejfudin Suljic, 42, who was found dead in a alley next to the Kemix Bar, at
4701 Morganford Road.

Defense attorney Ted Luby argued Friday that Ademovic's violent response during
a bar fight was instinctive for a man who spent years steeped in a war in Bosnia
and held in a prison camp.

"In spite of the struggles he had in his life, he has lived an honest life,"
Luby said of his client. "No one disputes that this is an awful tragedy. He's
already told the jury that he regrets what happened that night."

Investigators said the two men quarreled in the Kemix bar, where Suljic worked.
The victim chased Ademovic outside with a stun gun, and a fistfight ensued.

During the trial, witnesses testified that blood covered Ademovic's knuckles
when he went to another bar to talk to a friend after the beating. Suljic
suffered fractures to his facial bones, a damaged eye and displaced teeth.
Prosecutors said they found evidence that Suljic also may have been choked.

Ademovic, of the 4400 block of Morganford, who is married with two young sons,
testified that the beating was self-defense.

Before the sentencing, Suljic's two daughters, wife and sister each told the
judge how his death has impacted their lives.

"It's really hard," his wife, Hasnija Suljic, said through an interpreter. "I
don't know what to do with my life. There is no one to help me."

Judge Robert H. Dierker paused with emotion as he considered the story of the
two men. He said Ademovic's life struggles don't outweigh the need for justice.

"You and the victim came to this country for many of the same reasons that my
ancestors came here," Dierker said. "That flag behind me stands for something -
freedom - but also the rule of law."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 11, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 436 words


MISCELLANEOUS - Former Minnesota Vikings great Carl Eller was charged Thursday
with two felonies after a scuffle with police officers trying to arrest him for
possible drunken driving. Eller played in six Pro Bowls and was inducted into
the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2004. Hennepin County, Minn. prosecutors
charged Eller, 66, with fourth-degree assault and making terroristic threats. He
also was charged with driving while impaired and refusing to take a chemical
test for alcohol, both gross misdemeanors. Eller was let out of the Hennepin
County Jail after posting $50,000 bail. He had been in custody since his arrest
early Wednesday and is scheduled to appear in court today.

- A star player on Cuba's national volleyball team has left the squad and asked
Mexican immigration officials to let him stay in the country. Cuban player
Guillermo Roberto Cabrera and his father are staying at immigration offices
while their request for a 30-day transit permit is considered, said an
immigration agent who was not authorized to be quoted by name.

TENNIS - Top-seeded Maria Sharapova outlasted clay-court veteran Anabel Medina
Garrigues 7-6 (3), 5-7, 7-6 (1) to move into the quarterfinals at the Bausch &
Lomb Championships in Amelia Island, Fla. Amelie Mauresmo defeated
seventh-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska 3-6, 7-5, 7-6 (6).

- Top-ranked Justine Henin pulled out of next week's Family Circle Cup in
Charleston, S.C. because of a knee problem.

GOLF - Lorena Ochoa eagled two par-5s in a 7-under 66 and tied for the lead with
South Korea's Song-Hee Kim in the Corona Championship, in western Mexico.

NFL - The New York Jets signed safety Kerry Rhodes to a five-year extension for
$33.5 million, including $20 million guaranteed, according to various media
reports.

COLLEGE BASKETBALL - LSU introduced Stanford's Trent Johnson, who led the
Cardinal to the round of 16 in this year's NCAA Tournament, as its new coach.

COLLEGE FOOTBALL - A decision on a new contract for Penn State's Joe Paterno is
on hold until the end of this season, when the 81-year-old coach's current deal
expires. University president Graham Spanier told The Associated Press in an
e-mail that both the school and Paterno agree a new contract isn't necessary
right now.

NASCAR - Ryan Newman qualified for the pole position in Saturday's Subway Fresh
Fit 500 in Avondale, Ariz., with a fast lap on the mile Phoenix oval of 133.457
mph, just 0.045 faster than runner-up Elliott Sadler's 133.412.

CYCLING - Kim Kirchen of Luxembourg won the fourth stage of the Tour of Basque
Country race, while Tour de France champion Alberto Contador kept the overall
lead.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Short on workers Cut in visas hits landscapers, other industries 'Anything that
has the word immigration attached to it now is like a bad word.'

BYLINE: By Tim Logan ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1169 words


Spring is here.

The grass is coming.

But some of the thousands of people who cut it in St. Louis each year are not,
and that has some local landscape companies scrambling.

It's a situation that's also playing out in resort hotels in Branson and Lake of
the Ozarks, in crab processing plants in Maryland and anyplace where industries
have come to rely on the H-2B visa, a temporary guest worker program that has
been caught up in the congressional crossfire over immigration.

In St. Louis, that industry is landscaping. In recent years, dozens of companies
have been importing thousands of workers - mostly from Mexico - to do work they
say most Americans won't: mowing, trimming and hedging through the summer heat
for $8 or $10 an hour, then being laid off come winter.

Last year, more than 3,500 H-2B visas were approved for landscapers to work at
companies in the St. Louis area, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. In
all, about 130,000 temporary workers came to the U.S. under H-2B.

This year, the national number was cut in half, to 66,000, after Congress let
expire a measure that freed returning workers from the program's cap. There's no
reliable data on how many local companies didn't get the visas they had applied
for, but several said they came up short.

For Matt Voss, owner of Bluegrass Lawn Care in Bridgeton, that has meant a lot
of advertising, a lot of hiring, and a lot of training of new workers who may or
may not stick around.

"The problem with these low-paying jobs is it's hard to get guys to stay with
you in the heat," Voss said. "It gets to be 98 degrees, and they can go work at
Wal-Mart for $8 an hour, and it's air-conditioned there."

In past years, Bluegrass has used H-2B to bring in about a quarter of its
120-person work force. It brings back the same people each spring, and they're
well-trained, good workers, Voss said. When the season's done, they go home.

This year, in part because of the lousy economy, he has been able to find some
Americans to fill the jobs, but not enough.

"We're going to be OK, it's just disappointing," he said. "You lose 30 guys who
know your accounts, know what to do. It's going to be expensive to make up for."

Resorts feel pinch

The problem is more severe in some other industries, and other parts of the
country. Because the visas are issued seasonally - 33,000 in a batch starting
Oct. 1 and 33,000 starting April 1 - and the cap was reached quickly this year,
companies that needed their workers at a different time, such as in February or
June, often missed the cut.

So landscapers in the Northeast, where the growing season starts later, are
being harder hit than those in St. Louis. So are resort hotels in central and
southwest Missouri.

At the Lodge of Four Seasons in Lake Ozark, the approximately 100 Jamaicans -
one-sixth of the work force - who come each year for jobs as waiters,
housekeepers and landscapers are staying home. The resort couldn't get visas for
them, said Nancy Adams, director of human resources.

She'll try to fill the gap by hiring locals, if she can find them, and with
shorter-term student visas. But, likely, it will mean more work for the rest of
the staff.

It's frustrating, Adams said, because the resort has always played by the rules
of the highly regulated H-2B program, and now it is being withdrawn.

"It's very perplexing," she said. "Anything that has the word immigration
attached to it now is like a bad word."

Bill is stalled

In Congress, lawmakers are considering a bill that would restore the
returning-worker exemption to essentially double the number of available visas.
But so far it has been stalled by the broader debate over immigration reform.
The measure got an airing Wednesday at a hearing of a House subcommittee on
immigration.

At the hearing were companies being squeezed by the shortage, and also
opponents, who say H-2B may take jobs from American-born workers and drive down
wages in some industries.

In Missouri alone, there are about 200,000 people 35 and younger with a high
school diploma or less, but no job, said Steve Camarota, research director at
the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that supports
tighter immigration restrictions.

Those are the people most likely to take many jobs now filled with H-2B visas,
but often they don't even hear about them because employers have come to depend
on imported labor.

To qualify for the program, companies must advertise the jobs locally, but those
ads often run months before they are to be filled - October for a spring
landscaping job - and are unlikely to reach the right people, Camarota said.

"Employers at one time were in touch with clergy, youth leaders, etc., who they
used to help them find good seasonal workers. But immigration has curtailed
these practices," he said. "You're not going to find these workers by putting an
ad in the paper, or by listing a job with the unemployment office. It's not
going to happen."

But Fred Haskett, president of U.S. Lawns, in Defiance, said that even when he
has found American-born workers, they often don't last. Before he started using
H-2B, he had 300 percent turnover on his mowing crews. Last year, he said, it
was 5 percent.

As for wages, he might be able to pay more, but then he would have to charge
more.

"We're locked into a certain economic strata with our clients," Haskett said.
"Can you please explain to them why I'm going to immediately ask for a 30
percent price increase?"

A new approach?

Still, the situation has some landscapers considering a new approach, like
Maurice Dowell, who runs Dowco Enterprises in Chesterfield.

He has used H-2B for years and says it's a great program. This year he got his
visas but six weeks late. And while he was waiting, Dowell subcontracted out
more mowing work - typically done by H-2B workers - and tried "aggressively" to
hire more locals. For now, at least, it's working out. To work out long term, he
needs people who see landscaping as a career, and to get them he needs to offer
year-round jobs and professional advancement, not just $9 an hour and a layoff
each winter. That may mean less focus on seasonal grass cutting and more on
installation and brickwork. And more reaching out into schools to recruit and
train future landscapers.

But with his labor supply unstable at best, Dowell said, it may be time to start
thinking about life after H-2B.

"It's not something I can depend on," he said. "I can't hang my hat on it and
guarantee my customers I'll do what I say. Not with the current state of H-2B,
no way."

---

How H-2B works

- Employers must advertise jobs locally in newspapers and elsewhere before
applying for visas, and report how many applications they received from
native-born workers.

- Employers must prove that the jobs are seasonal or temporary in nature.

- Employers must pay the prevailing wage as set by the state, and pay overtime
and Social Security, unemployment and other taxes.

- Workers must be interviewed at a U.S. embassy or consulate in their home
country before entering the United States.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - U.S. Lawns employee Ivan Daniel Molina Ramirez, of Mexico, cuts grass
in Creve Coeur on Wednesday. Ramirez is in the U.S. on the H-2B visa program.
The visa is popular with businesses that hire seasonal workers.  David Carson |
Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Voter citizenship bill revives familiar battle

BYLINE: By Adam Jadhav ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 668 words


A bill quietly approved by a Missouri House committee earlier this month is
reigniting the same heated debate that accompanied a voter ID law struck down by
the state Supreme Court less than two years ago.

The bill would require anyone registering to vote to submit explicit proof of
citizenship to the local election authority, even when registering by mail. The
bill's chief sponsor, Rep. Cynthia Davis, R-O'Fallon, says the measure aims to
keep illegal immigrants out of the voting booth.

But critics suggest that requiring specific documents to prove citizenship - for
example, an updated passport or birth certificate - would disenfranchise legal
voters.

Those arguments mirror the ones surrounding the state's voter photo ID provision
enacted and subsequently struck down in 2006. Citizenship proof requirements are
the latest trend in a larger national debate over voter identification. While
Indiana's photo ID law, the strictest in the nation, is being challenged before
the U.S. Supreme Court, more than 10 other states are advancing citizenship
proof laws.

In Missouri, as in many states, no ID is necessary to register. Voters can send
a form through the mail - which includes a sworn statement that they are
citizens - and then at the polls show one of various kinds of state ID, not
necessarily something that proves citizenship.

For example, some foreigners on a visa are eligible for a drivers license, and
illegal immigrants have also been known to get them using forged documents.

Davis says her proposal would cover a loophole presently governed only by the
honor system. She chafes at the suggestion that her bill if passed would
disenfranchise voters.

"I don't understand why anybody wouldn't be in favor of protecting the integrity
of the voting process," Davis said. "That's what this comes down to - just
making sure that the people who are voting are indeed eligible. You don't hear
about how disenfranchised the honest voter is when a dishonest voter gets to
vote."

The legislation also orders the Missouri Department of Revenue to begin issuing
drivers licenses that clearly indicate whether the holder is a citizen. The new
citizen-labeled licenses would also qualify as proof for voter registration.

David Griffith, a spokesman for the Department of Revenue, said the bill was
being analyzed.

Critics such as the national voting rights group Project Vote call the
legislation an end-around of the Missouri high court's ruling against strict
photo ID at the polls in 2006. They note studies showing that lower-income,
minority or elderly people are less likely to drive or travel abroad and may not
have a passport or drivers license.

In a 2006 survey, the Brennan Center for Justice, a voting rights group at New
York University, found that at least 12 percent of those earning less than
$25,000 annually had no access to documents proving citizenship. The survey also
found that at least 32 percent of all women had no citizenship documents with an
accurate legal name.

Critics also say there are few documented cases of individual voter fraud at
polls, particularly among illegal immigrants, a group numbering between 35,000
and 65,000 in Missouri, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

"Citizenship requirements are just another variation of a strict photo ID law
for voters," said Michael Slater, deputy director of Project Vote. "It will fall
hardest on women, the elderly, people of color and poor folks, people who some
politicians simply don't want at the polls."

St. Louis County Republican elections director Joseph Goeke defended the
proposal as mostly innocuous. "They simply want you to prove you are who you say
you are," he said.

But St. Louis City Board of Elections Director Scott Leiendecker, also a
Republican, said he suspected tracking down - or paying fees to get - the
appropriate document would deter some voters.

"Registering to vote needs to be ... something that's simple for individuals to
do," Leiendecker said.

---

The bill is the House Committee Substitute for HB1317.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS YOUR VIEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 1367 words


Senate immigration bill creates more problems

Senate Bill 858, sponsored by state Sen. Scott Rupp, R-Wentzville, would create
more problems for immigrants and non-immigrants alike in our communities, most
notably with its provision requiring local law enforcement to check for
immigration documentation.

This bill would encourage more racial profiling, some of which already is
occurring in our Latino communities. With the passage of SB 858, all immigrants
would be forced to carry with them at all times proof of documentation (that
would be as dangerous as someone carrying a Social Security card or birth
certificate at all times) for fear they might have to show it in any number of
unforeseeable circumstances.

This bill assuredly would create additional time-consuming tasks for our police
officers, who already lack adequate resources, and would fill local jails with
immigrants who merely merged without blinkers.

Gang-related crimes, robberies, domestic violence and other crimes would go
unreported if those who wish to report the crimes are immigrants who fear that
their interaction and cooperation with local authorities may result in their
deportation.

Urge your representative to oppose this legislation, which already passed the
Senate and has been referred to the House. Mr. Rupp's bill creates more problems
for all immigrants, documented and undocumented, police officers and community
members.

Jill Kuhlberg | St. Louis

Absolute arrogance

Absolute arrogance is what I felt when I read about our governor's stance of
"absolute privilege" ("Absolute hogwash," April 17). Oh to be so much better
than those little people who put him in office!

Can his arrogance be in part responsible for the posture of his various heads of
our state agencies or departments, such as the Missouri Department of
Transportation, Metro, Public Service Commission and Department of Corrections?

Patrick Payne | High Ridge

Negative attack

In the weekly "Punch Line" cartoon contest, the Post-Dispatch takes a thoroughly
cheap shot at the Catholic Church on a serious subject. This is a one-sided
negative attack that is offensive to Catholics who love their faith. It does
nothing to help victims experience healing.

I respectfully request that the Post-Dispatch not run the result of this "Punch
Line" cartoon contest.

Robert O'Shaughnessy | Hazelwood

Making a difference

"More single men are adopting foster children" (April 17) told the story of an
unselfish man. Kory Alexander deserves to be "Foster Parent of the Year." He is
making a difference in many boys' lives. It is good to see an article that
points out the good in people, rather than what brings out the worst in them.

Mary Ann Sanders | St. Louis

Insensitive request

A recent letter encouraging the Missouri Department of Mental Health to remove
the words "mental retardation" from one of its divisions requires a prompt and
vigorous riposte. If DMH wants to change the name of one of its organizations to
avoid redundancy, that's fine. But to change it for the reasons the letter
suggests is insulting to the many people with mental retardation.

The letter writer implied that autism is a "superior" form of mental defect,
compared to, for instance, Down's syndrome. Mental retardation, as the letter
says, is one of many developmental disabilities. Why would anyone think mental
retardation is "offensive" or "repulsive" or lacks "dignity and respect"?
Through no fault of their own, people can be limited, held-back or "retarded" in
their capabilities because of developmental problems, including autism.

"Mentally retarded" does not demean a person or imply anything offensive,
repulsive or lacking in dignity or respect.

Leroy Madden | Ellisville

Rousing success

To consider airline deregulation anything but a rousing success, the person
offering the opinion must be in some way associated with a major airline no
longer guaranteed a 12 percent profit on sales of 55 percent of capacity and
forced into the real world of competition.

I flew one time before deregulation and paid $400 round-trip to Las Vegas as a
college graduation present to myself. That same flight 30 years later can be had
for about $250. Vintage pictures of passengers in their Sunday best enjoying
meals on fine china indicate a luxury reserved for society's elite. Stop by the
Lambert Airport's East terminal and you would see people from a wide range of
income levels and ages in line to board a Southwest flight. In 1978, it was the
uncommon person who flew. Today, it's the rare person who has never been on a
plane.

Deregulation (and Herb Kelleher) brought air travel to the masses. Southwest's
737s are today what a Greyhound bus was a generation ago. Some major airlines
didn't survive (Pan Am, Eastern, TWA), but I'll trade their demise for a $199
round-trip to Phoenix every time.

Gary Duff | Granite City

Commitment canceled

Regarding "Sheltered care home won't be replaced" (April 17): I am appalled that
the Madison County Board has abandoned the Madison County Sheltered Care Home. I
was present at the meeting and heard the spokeswomen talk about the numbers of
beds needed and the needs of the mentally ill for daily care, be it home health
care, activities or companionship. As evidenced by newspaper articles and TV
reports about neglect and abuse in for-profit care facilities, I do not
understand the present attitudes of our politicians. This was the old "poor
farm," a place established with a commitment to help "the least of these" and be
supported by the county.

I applaud the integrity and sincerity of the seven members who voted against the
wishes of Chairman Alan Dunstan. I agree with the United Congregations of
Metro-East spokesman who said, "Is the money and the levee situation more
important than people"

What has happened to the "morality" of our country's politicians?

Mary Trimmer | Mitchell

Litterbugs

"Cigarettes are top trash on shorelines" (April 16) told of the amount of trash
made from cigarettes and cigarette filters. That is ridiculous! I never can
figure out why people think it is OK to throw cigarettes on the ground. At my
house, I pick up at least one cigarette a day on my driveway. That seems crazy
to me.

Why don't the police give tickets to people for throwing this stuff on the
ground?

Matt Prange | Maryland Heights

Deal or no deal?

"Deal in place for aircraft maker" (April 17) may be a tip on what could be the
greatest scam or greatest investment in the history of our state. Our governor
has arranged financing that gives a foreign manufacturer close to $550 million
in tax incentives over 20 years for a plant that would cost only $375 million to
build. The plant would pay, on average, 1,000 workers $55,000 per year.

That members of the Blunt family have their fingers in the pie makes me
skeptical. As a native Missourian, the governor needs to "show me" that he is
not taking the taxpayers of this state to the cleaners. We are told that the
incentive would have to be repaid with interest. Still, questions remain: How
much of the "plan" is guaranteed? How long would Bombardier have to repay the
loan, and at what interest rate? What are the penalties for not meeting the
goals?

I have no confidence that the Legislature has the interests of the public in
mind. The tough question that has not been answered is the financial
uncertainty, the risk. The question each senator and representative should be
asking is: What is the net present value of an investment of $550 million over
an unspecified number of years at an unspecified rate of interest?

If the Legislature cannot answer that financial question, it does not know if
the public is being served.

Stuart Katz | Chesterfield

Horrible humor

OK. I've had it. One of my pet peeves is that the comics portray wife-on-husband
violence as humorous. But the April 18 "Hagar the Horrible" is beyond belief. It
portrays Hagar with two broken arms as Helga's punishment for eating with his
arms on the table and defying his wife's order to keep his elbows off the table.
This is not funny. This is criminal spouse abuse. No one would tolerate it with
the gender roles reversed. It's about time to stand up and say, "It is not funny
when women physically abuse men!"

Fred Domke | St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS  OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 28, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

THE OTHER RED MEAT? Goats find way to U.S. plates 'The No. 1 consumed meat in
the world' Herding of the animals is on the rise in Missouri, elsewhere as
demand is fueled by immigrants.

BYLINE: By Georgina Gustin ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: Hillsboro


In a land of swine and steak, Tom Mueller sees another meat on the horizon.

The 38-year-old farming entrepreneur stands at the edge of one of his fields,
looking out at a herd of goats as the animals graze on the spring-green grass
and their newly born kids cavort and tumble.

"You try to do something that's about the future," he said. "I love the cows.
Don't get me wrong, and the goats are tough. But they're more money."

These days they mean much more money.

Though goat isn't a traditional meat in most American communities, the country's
demand for it has shot up in the past decade, largely because of growing
immigrant communities where goat is a common protein.

"It's the No. 1 consumed meat in the world," said Scott Hollis, a goat
specialist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. "It's very popular - except
here."

But farmers around the country are starting to fill the growing niche demand and
could be broadening the market in the process.

Joining farmers across the country, Mueller has started raising goats for meat,
or "meat goats," helping push total goat numbers up nationwide to more than 3
million this year from about 2.5 million in 2002. About 80 percent of those are
meat goats. In Missouri alone, the meat goat industry grew by nearly 200 percent
between 2002 and 2007, and meat and dairy goats combined are the state's
fastest-growing livestock sector. The state now has the country's eighth-largest
goat herd with almost 95,000 goats. (Illinois has about 25,000.)

Goat is especially popular with Muslim, Hispanic and some Asian communities,
particularly around certain holidays, such as Greek Easter, which was Sunday,
Cinco de Mayo, and the end of Ramadan, which comes in the fall.

Until recently, though, it was difficult to find American goat meat. If shoppers
found goat in stores, it was likely to be imported frozen from New Zealand or
Australia, the world's largest exporter of goat meat.

That is starting to change as American farmers get into the meat goat biz -
which, as it turns out, doesn't require all that much.

Goats aren't expensive to buy and don't need nearly the land that larger
livestock does. That means more small-scale "hobby farmers" have gotten into the
business as word of new demand has spread.

"We just wanted something that wasn't so hard on us," said Bill Vassalli, who
retired to a farm in Marble Hill, Mo., and is now an officer with the Missouri
Meat Goat Producers Association. "If you have a bucket of feed, they'll come to
you."

getting educated

For these new American meat goat farmers, the learning curve has been steep. Not
only have they had to learn the idiosyncrasies of the animals, they've also had
to figure out how to market them.

Most American groceries have yet to catch on to goat meat - which producers tout
as tasty and lean - and for goat farmers, that has meant going door to door from
one small ethnic grocery or restaurant to the next, selling their product.

"There's still not a defined market," Hollis explained. "A lot of it has been an
educational process, and we're far from perfecting this."

But they're getting closer. On the American Meat Goat Association website, for
example, there's a guide for producers listing all the goat-consuming ethnic
groups, their goat-centric holidays and the size goat they prefer.

"A lot of people need to tailor their breeding practice around when these ethnic
groups want (the meat) and how big they want them," Hollis said, adding, "It
doesn't do you any good to raise goats if you're not giving (consumers) what
they want at the right time."

Mueller has taken his operation, called Dry Creek Ranch, one step further. Last
year, he partnered with Muhammad Qayyum of American Halal Meats and now sends
his goats to Qayyum's slaughtering facility in New Haven, where the animals are
killed according to Muslim practices. Now stores in St. Louis and Columbia, Mo.,
sell fresh, halal meat for the Muslim communities. (Halal refers to food
produced in accordance with Muslim law.)

"It's grown here, it's fresh from here, and you're getting it two days
slaughtered," Mueller said.

Mueller, not a farmer by trade or birth, moved to Hillsboro from the Atlanta
area, where he was a construction contractor and publisher, among other things.

Now he raises cattle, produce and chicken, and also sells eggs, but meat goats
are the bulk of his growing farm business. By his counting, he's the largest
meat goat producer in Missouri.

With 2,200 goats at peak capacity, Mueller is now down to about 400 goats, not
including about 60 new kids. Many he lost to illness or coyotes, but most of
them were sold - 300 in the last two weeks alone. He is now in the process of
replenishing his herd.

Raising goats is tough, he says. The animals require more maintenance than
cattle and are prone to disease.

But, he says, he doesn't regret his decision to get into the goat game.

"You have your ups and downs," he says. "You have to be in it for the long haul.
But I knew there was the demand."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Tom Mueller keeps a close eye on his goats Friday near Hillsboro after
feeding them. The goats don't mind butting their way past Mueller to get to
their meal  -  except when he carries an electric prod.  J.B. Forbes |
Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - A goat lifts its head at the trough while eating corn
only to lose its place at Tom Mueller's farm.  J.B. Forbes | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 749 words


SAN MARCOS, TEXAS

Young polygamist-sect member gives birth

One of the hundreds of young polygamist-sect members taken into state custody
gave birth Tuesday to a healthy boy while child welfare officials, state
troopers and fellow sect members stood watch outside the maternity ward.

Authorities say the mother is younger than 18; sect members say she is 18. She
will remain with her new son in a nearby foster-care facility until a formal
custody hearing will determine the pair's fate sometime before June 5.

CHICAGO

Immigration rallies planned for Thursday

Immigration activists and civil rights leaders will hold rallies and marches in
200 cities across the nation on Thursday, hoping to revive the stagnant
immigration debate in time for the presidential election.

More than 1 million people nationwide marched in the name of immigrant rights in
2006. There were far fewer last year.

In Chicago, up to 50,000 are expected at a downtown march and rally on Thursday,
but to reach that number the event will include unity among different races and
gay rights activists.

SACRAMENTO, CALIF.

Judges refuses to free Sarah Jane Olson

A California judge has refused to free a former 1970s radical who was sent back
to prison days after state corrections officials released her by mistake.

Lawyers for former Symbionese Liberation Army member Sarah Jane Olson contend
that corrections officials had no authority to rearrest her after she was
mistakenly paroled March 17 after six years in prison.

CHICAGO

Attacks on homeless increase by 13 percent

Attacks against the homeless across the U.S. rose 13 percent in 2007, a study
done by two advocacy groups reported Tuesday.

The latest increase continues a trend homeless advocates say has been ongoing
since the group started tracking those crimes almost a decade ago.

DALLAS

DNA leads to release after 27 years in prison

A Dallas man who spent more than 27 years in prison for a murder he didn't
commit was freed after being incarcerated longer than any other wrongfully
convicted U.S. inmate cleared by DNA testing

James Lee Woodard was cleared of the 1980 murder of his girlfriend and became
the 18th person in Dallas County to have his conviction cast aside.

Briefly

- Inspection: Army officials said they are inspecting every barracks building
worldwide to see whether plumbing and other problems revealed at Fort Bragg,
N.C., last week are widespread.

- Teacher of year: Michael Geisen, 35, of Prineville, Ore., will be honored as
National Teacher of the Year at a White House ceremony today.

- Snooping case: Lawanda Jackson, 49, a former administrative specialist at UCLA
Medical Center, has been indicted by a federal grand jury for snooping in the
medical records of celebrity patients and selling information to media.

- Franken taxes: Al Franken, a comedian running for the Senate in Minnesota,
said he will pay about $70,000 in income taxes in 17 states going back to 2003.

- FDA request: A federal appeals court said it wants to hear the Food and Drug
Administration's position on whether its rules permit cities to force
restaurants to display calorie counts for their menu items.

- Mukasey funding: Attorney General Michael Mukasey urged Congress to approve
more than $500 million to help fight crime in Mexico and Central America.

- Suspect behavior: Nathan Dickson, 19, who is accused of shooting his father,
stepmother, stepsister and brother on Saturday morning in Columbia S.C., spent
that afternoon riding four-wheelers with a friend and buying steaks for dinner,
the friend's grandmother said.

- Bomb blast: Authorities say a crude bomb containing fish hooks and BBs packed
inside a plastic bottle exploded this weekend at a junior high school in Chico,
Calif. No one was injured.

- Dog survives: A dog was found alive and in relatively good shape after
spending eight days trapped in the rubble of a building that had exploded in
Breckenridge, Colo.

- Polar bears: A federal judge in Anchorage, Alaska, has ordered the Interior
Department to decide within 16 days whether polar bears should be listed as a
threatened species because of global warming.

- Ricin plea: Thomas Tholen of Riverton, Utah, pleaded not guilty to a federal
charge that he knew his cousin, Roger Bergendorff, was producing ricin.
Bergendorff came down with ricin poisoning and was hospitalized for two months.

- The inside poop: Bonhams New York will auction a three-pound fossil that is
130 million years old. They expect to get $450, even though it is, well, a pile
of dinosaur dung.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Facts on immigrants and health care

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 155 words


Concerns about the impact of immigrants on the U.S. health care system spurred
the Kaiser Family Foundation to look at the issue. Though non-citizens - both
legal and undocumented immigrants - are more likely to lack insurance, they are
not the primary cause of the country's growing uninsured problem, according to
the foundation. Kaiser found that:

Non-citizens receive significantly less health care than U.S. citizens. Largely
due to their higher uninsured rate, non-citizens are less likely to receive
medical care. In 2005, average annual per capita health expenditure for
non-citizens was $1,797 versus $3,702 for citizens.

Non-citizens are far less likely to use the ER. Some 13 percent of adult
non-citizens report an emergency room visit in the last year versus 20 percent
for citizens. Also, communities with low rates of ER use tend to have much
higher concentrations of non-citizens than areas with high rates of ER use.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Health business

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (Person listening to a globe with a stethoscope)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 2, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Make English the official language? How about just learning to use it correctly?

BYLINE: By Michael A. Kahn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 769 words


Until this week, "exasperation" best described my reaction to those who propose
to make English the official language of the United States. That all changed,
thanks to the scribes at ACS Recovery Services.

But first my exasperation:

English already is the official language of the United States, and it has been
for centuries. Those afflicted with the Lou Dobbs strain of Anglophilia need to
remind themselves that we all came here from somewhere else - including "native"
Americans, who traversed a strip of land that once connected North America and
Siberia. Only a minority can trace our origins to England. The rest of our
families arrived speaking another language and tended to settle in neighborhoods
of similar immigrants who neither spoke nor read English.

And just as today, the "real" Americans back then complained that these vulgar
immigrants with their foreign tongues and customs would degrade our culture. But
guess what? The children of those immigrants learned to speak English as their
first language, joined our military, started businesses, earned advanced
degrees, won Nobel Prizes and helped build this country. And so it will be for
this generation of immigrants.

The constant infusion of newcomers is at the core of what makes our nation
great. Indeed, few things are more inspiring than watching the opening day
ceremonies at the Olympics as nation after homogenous nation of athletes parade
by until we reach Team USA, a veritable United Nations of homegrown athletes.

So to all those English-as-official-language proponents, I say, "Chill."

And by the way, has anyone asked the Brits about our claim over their language?
Calvin Trillin, food writer and fried chicken aficionado, once suggested that
the entire Commonwealth of Kentucky had a valid defamation claim against Colonel
Sanders. So, too, those jolly good chaps across the pond might have a few
quibbles with our bloody forsaking of dozens of corking English terms, including
lorry, pram, lift, nappy, loo and petrol.

But back to my epiphany:

Earlier this year, my mother-in-law was hospitalized after breaking her wrist in
a fall on her driveway. Her insurance covered most of her medical costs. Last
week, she received a letter from something called ACS Recovery Services. The
letter explained that it was reviewing my mother-in-law's claim to determine
whether another insurance company should have paid her health care costs. She
had trouble understanding the key sentence of the letter and gave it to my wife,
who was similarly confused and who handed it to me.

I received the letter with the confidence nurtured by years as a writer and
lawyer. Yet I stumbled over the same sentence, which was part of the
instructions: "If your medical condition was not caused by an accident, please
do not disregard this letter."

It was while wending my way through that daunting triple negative that I had my
epiphany: Maybe we don't need to formally crown English our official language.
Maybe, instead, we all need to take a refresher course in English as a first
language.

I am not being sarcastic. At least not entirely.

As a novelist, I am haunted by the limits of language. What writer can't
identify with Gustave Flaubert, who described the frustrations of trying to
express our deepest feelings in language: "Human speech is like a cracked pot on
which we beat out rhythms for bears to dance to when we are striving to make
music that will wring tears from the stars."

As a lawyer, I am haunted by the challenge of trying to help a jury of ordinary
people understand the baffling argot of a typical legal document. Why do lawyers
feel compelled to write "Said document, as more fully identified hereinabove, is
more fully addressed hereinafter" when they could say exactly the same thing
with five simple words: "This document is discussed below."

Of course, we expect writers to bemoan the limits of language, and we expect
lawyers to succumb to the lure of legalese. The least the rest of us can do is
to make an effort to state clearly what we want or believe.

It would be great if those who compose forms at ACS Recovery Systems were the
only ones in need of a refresher course in English as a first language. But each
of us encounters that sort of gibberish every day.

In short, if you cannot translate into simple English that instruction in the
letter from ACS Recovery Systems, please do not disregard this essay.

---

Michael Kahn is a partner in the law firm of Bryan Cave LLP and the author of
eight novels. He also is an adjunct professor of law at Washington University,
where he teaches a course on censorship and the First Amendment.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  SPEECH OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (LANGUAGE MAZE) PAUL LACHINE | NEWSART  PHOTO - Michael A. Kahn

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

33 sue over wait for citizenship

BYLINE: By Robert Patrick ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: St. Louis


From all appearances, one might think that Damir Mujcinovic embodies an American
success story, someone Uncle Sam would welcome with open arms.

In April 2000, Mujcinovic, a Bosnian Muslim refugee, and his wife arrived in New
York. He had $111 in his pocket, no place to stay and nothing to eat or drink.

Now, he lives in Affton with his wife and two sons, owns a trucking business and
talks about "six-figure money" and paying his taxes "like everybody else."

But Mujcinovic, 30, wants to become a citizen. He said he wants to be able to
sponsor some Bosnian relatives to come here, "because I have a really beautiful
life."

He also wants to live without fear of being kicked out of the country. And he
wants to vote, adding "especially now" in a clear nod to his frustration with a
government that has kept him in limbo for almost two years.

He applied in April 2006 and was interviewed five months later. He has yet to
get an answer.

Tired of that wait, Mujcinovic joined 32 other aspiring citizens in a lawsuit
filed Friday in federal court in St. Louis.

The suit - against immigration officials, the FBI, Homeland Security and others
- seeks to represent potentially tens of thousands of immigrants waiting for
citizenship. It says their applications have been unlawfully delayed by FBI
background checks that are not authorized by law.

Attorney Jim Hacking, who filed the suit, said that U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services officials didn't follow proper procedures in expanding the
background check requirement in 2002, and are ignoring the 120-day deadline to
decide after interviewing an applicant.

Hacking said all of his clients are legal permanent residents who had been in
the U.S. for years. One has waited more than five years for a decision.

Almost two-thirds of Hacking's clients are from Bosnia, with four from
Afghanistan, three from Pakistan, two from Somalia, two from Jordan and one from
Egypt. All are Muslim.

Hacking's suit follows similar ones in other parts of the country, and is the
latest effort to force the government to speed up the citizenship process.

Lawsuits nationwide, including one filed in St. Louis in 2006 on behalf of 50
Bosnians, have successfully forced action by citing the government's own
deadlines.

In April, the agency estimated that the citizenship process should take about
10.8 months for those who applied to the St. Louis office in the summer of 2007.

But the agency said it could take longer if there are problems, such as a delay
in the background check.

"Certainly there are people who have had to wait entirely too long ... so we
have put different practices into place ... to move these cases through in a
timely manner," spokeswoman Marilu Cabrera said this week.

Mujcinovic says he doesn't know any reason for the delay. "I'm not some guy from
the street. I'm a family man," he said. "Everything's clean like a whistle."

He said his wife, Aldijana, applied in August 2007 and had her passport in hand
in February.

Public records do not show any criminal record. In an e-mail responding to
questions about Mujcinovic's case, Cabrera wrote that she could not discuss
individual cases.

Hacking provided a copy of a Feb. 25, 2008, e-mail about the case he said was
received by a staffer of U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.

It reads: "Mr. Mujcinovic's application is currently under extended supervisory
review and will remain there for an uncertain period of time. Thanks and have a
great day."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

18 Cuban refugees turn up in Texas They were part of a group that was freed by
gunmen after being detained in Mexico.

BYLINE: By Julie Watson THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


A group of 18 Cubans crossed into Texas in good health more than a week after
heavily armed masked men seized them from immigration agents in southern Mexico,
the attorney general's office said Thursday.

The hijacking of a bus carrying the illegal migrants to a detention center shows
how violent criminal organizations are increasingly smuggling Cubans into the
United States through Mexico.

Cuba's ambassador to Mexico, Manuel Aguilera, blamed a Miami-based mafia for the
attack. Thomas Shannon, a top State Department official in Washington, also
expressed concern, saying this week that all Cubans sneaking out of the
communist-run island through Mexico are being managed by professional
traffickers.

Few details have been made public about how the 18 Cubans made it through
Mexico, or about the fate of 19 other migrants who were on the bus seized by six
gunmen in southern Chiapas state.

The assailants drove off with 33 Cubans and four Central Americans after forcing
seven unarmed immigration agents and two drivers off the bus, which was found
abandoned hours later along a jungle highway.

Nine Mexican immigration officials and the two bus drivers have been detained
for questioning, the attorney general's office said, and authorities are
searching across Mexico for the missing migrants, said Raul Vazquez, an official
with Mexico's Migration Institute in Chiapas.

The 18 Cubans walked across an international bridge in Hidalgo, Texas, and
surrendered to the U.S. Border Patrol. Under the U.S. government's "wet-foot,
dry-foot" policy, Cubans intercepted at sea are turned back to Cuba, but those
who reach U.S. soil are usually allowed to stay.

Questioned in Texas, some of the Cubans said the assailants took them to a house
in the Gulf of Mexico port of Veracruz where photographs were taken and glued to
apparently fake immigration documents, which helped them get past military
checkpoints, the attorney general's office said.

Then, the Cubans said they were split up, given money and put on public buses to
the border, where they were given more money before crossing into Texas.
Authorities didn't identify who helped the Cubans along the way.

U.S. Border Patrol officials said they had no information, and a U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement official, who was not authorized to be
named, confirmed that 18 Cubans had turned themselves in.

The migrants said they left Cuba on a makeshift boat and were picked up at sea
by two men in a yacht who offered to take them to the U.S. The yacht was
intercepted off Cancun by the Mexican navy, and the two men were detained on
allegations of people smuggling.

Both men, Nairobi Claro Ortega and Noriel Veloz, are Cubans who have been living
in Miami. They turned down an offer of bail, saying they feared for their lives,
the attorney general's office said. Friends of Ortega's in Miami said he came
from Cuba through Mexico himself two years ago, and called this week from jail
to say he's OK.

In recent years, several alleged people smugglers have turned up dead in the
Yucatan Peninsula, which is just 120 miles (190 kilometers) southwest of Cuba.
Mexican authorities say Cuban-American human trafficking rings operate in and
around Cancun.

For decades, Cubans quietly passed through Mexico to avoid being caught by U.S.
Coast Guard vessels. But the flow of human cargo has increased substantially -
more than 1,000 Cubans have been detained in Mexico so far this year compared to
1,359 for all of 2007.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

English speaks to immigrants' dedication

BYLINE: SUSAN WEICH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 734 words


When 36 people walked across a stage at St. Charles Community College last week,
they trod on some popular beliefs about immigrants.

The students were getting certificates for their dedication and progress in
learning English as a second language.

Several of them were honored for getting their citizenship.

They got the awards about 10 miles away from some apartments that became St.
Charles County's flash point for anti-immigration sentiment. In 2006, the
O'Fallon Lakes project was temporarily shut down when illegal workers were
discovered there.

Projects such as that one and a national movement to establish English as the
official language of the United States have contributed to the misconception
that all immigrants are illegal and illiterate.

Diane Schroeder, associate dean of extended learning at the college, describes a
much different picture of this county's immigrants.

"Many of them were doctors or other professionals before they came here," she
said.

The English as a Second Language program, which has been around for 21 years at
the community college, taught English to 675 people this past year. They
represented 59 different countries.

At the ceremony, Schroeder congratulated the students for taking on the
challenging task of learning English in addition to holding down jobs and taking
care of their families.

Many of those honored had spent at least 200 hours in a classroom in the past
year. Half of them had been studying the language for more than two years.

Hsianglan Eschenbrenner, 37, a student and speaker at the ceremony, charmed the
audience with her sense of humor.

She is originally from Taiwan, and she talked about meeting and marrying her
husband, a U.S. soldier. After moving to St. Peters, she postponed learning
English because she was raising three small children.

Eschenbrenner also shared an unfortunate attempt to use slang at home. Her
mother-in-law had suggested that she say "Bite me!" when her husband got on her
nerves, she said.

"Instead I made a mistake and said 'Beat me!' " Eschenbrenner said to laughter.

She talked about how she and other immigrants try hard to integrate into
American culture even when they are missing their families, friends and foods
from their homelands.

"They say, home is where the heart is, and because of my husband and my
children, America is my home now," she said.

Eschenbrenner is typical of the warm and caring students who go through the
program, Schroeder said.

Jenny Preston, one of 19 teachers in the program, said that in her class for
beginners, she teaches life skills and fits grammar and spelling into the
context. She said that surprisingly, even beginning students understand English
better than they can speak it.

"When Americans speak to immigrants, they are actually getting through to them
to some extent, but the immigrants can't always acknowledge that they
understand," she said. "Speaking is the hardest skill for them and the one we
practice in class constantly."

That was the case for Blanca De La Torre 36, of Wentzville, who came to this
country from Mexico 11 years ago. She said immigrants often feel fear and shame
when they can't respond in English.

Now she is able to help other Spanish-speaking people navigate events such as
doctor's visits and trips to the post office.

Beena Kushwah, 46, of O'Fallon said that learning to correctly pronounce English
words and increasing her vocabulary also had raised her confidence. She came
here from India two years ago and said she now could understand and be
understood over the phone, a big hurdle for her.

Ingrid Casillo, lead teacher of the English as a Second Language program, said
the classes, which are broken into three skill levels, teach the immigrants to
read, write, listen and understand the language.

"So if they are at the grocery store and want to buy milk, they can read the
sign that says milk, they can ask for the milk, and they can understand when
they hear someone else talking about milk," Casillo said.

Students learn about American culture and history as they are learning to speak
the language, she said.

Preston said the ceremony was not only rewarding for teachers, but was a truer
snapshot of the immigrant community than some painted.

"The students I work with are not hurting anyone; in fact, they work very hard
to earn their own way, and they enrich our society culturally," Preston said. "I
have the greatest respect for their efforts."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

(PHOTO ONLY) FOREST FIRE RAGES IN WASHINGTON STATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 44 words


- The Board of Immigration Appeals ordered the deportation of Flor Crisostomo, a
Mexican immigrant living in a Chicago church, who was the subject of an
Associated Press story in the Sunday news section. The story was unclear as to
who had ordered the deportation.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Smoke from the Cold Springs fi re hangs near Mount Adams in Washington
state on Tuesday as more than 8,000 acres of timber burn in the Gifford Pinchot
National Forest and on the Yakama Indian Reservation. Torsten Kjellstrand | The
Oregonian / The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants make up Larger Share of Nation's Uninsured

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 169 words


While the uninsured population in the United States is still dominated by
native-born Americans, it is becoming increasingly made up of immigrants. People
who were not born in the United States account for about 55 percent of the
increase in the U.S. uninsured population over a 12-year period ending in 2006,
according to a study released this week by the Employee Benefit Research
Institute.

In 1994, immigrants accounted for 18.8 percent of the U.S. uninsured population,
by 2006 they accounted for 26.6 percent of the uninsured population.

Whether an immigrant is uninsured is highly correlated with his or her length of
time in the United States. Just more than 27 percent of foreign-born noncitizens
who entered the United States before 1970 were uninsured in 2006. Comparatively,
among foreign-born noncitizens who entered the country after 1999, 49 percent
were uninsured.

The study, which uses Census Bureau data, does not differentiate the legal
status of the immigrants. The report can be read at www.ebri.org.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Health business

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (pill with a tag)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

HEADS UP DEADLINES - GUIDELINES - HOT LINES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 546 words


Polo match will benefit immigrants, refugees

new melle - The nonprofit organization Friends of Immigrants and Refugees in St.
Louis and the St. Louis Polo Club are holding a benefit polo match Saturday at
the Blue Heron Farm of Christi and Billy Busch at 4020 Benne Road near New
Melle.

The Bud Light Polo team will play Huntleigh McGehee. Gates open at 3 p.m. with
the match starting at 4 p.m. Cost is $25 per carload. Dinner and an auction will
follow, with dinner tickets sold separately. For more information, call Gina
Tramelli at 314-713-1835.

Performance will raise funds for juvenile diabetes

LADUE - The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation will benefit from a musical
revue to be presented Aug. 22-23 by the Arch City Theater Troupe.

The fourth annual revue, called "Magic to Do," will be at 7:30 p.m. each night
at the Orthwein Theater of Mary Institute and St. Louis Country Day School, 101
North Warson Road. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. Admission is free. A bake sale,
raffle and auction are planned. Donations are welcome.

Library district will offer amnesty program

ARNOLD - The Jefferson County Library will hold its fourth annual "Food for
Fines" amnesty program throughout September, in which patrons with overdue fines
may erase them by donating a can of food for each overdue item. The food will go
to area food pantries.

Lost and damaged materials are not eligible. Home-canned items, canned goods
past their expiration date, dented or damaged, or with bar codes that have been
lined or scratched through will not be accepted. Last year, the library
collected 4,552 items of canned goods plus $7,220 in fines. Patrons who don't
owe fines may also contribute.

For more information contact the Arnold branch at 636-296-2204, the Northwest
branch in High Ridge at 636-677-8186 or the Windsor branch in Barnhart,
636-461-1914.

Crisis Nursery will open center in Wentzville

WENTZVILLE - St. Louis Crisis Nursery is opening a center at 700 Medical Drive
in Wentzville on property provided by SSM St. Joseph Health Center. A ceremony
is planned for 1 p.m. Friday. The center will begin its operations Monday.

It is the group's fifth location overall and third in St. Charles County. The
facility is intended to serve the western part of the county. It provides
24-hour care for children of families facing a crisis or emergency.

Families may bring their children through age 12 to the Crisis Nursery because
of a parental illness or hospital stay, domestic violence, lack of utilities,
overwhelming parental stress or any other emergency situation that requires a
temporary parent-child separation. Its 24-hour help line number is 636-947-0060.
For more information, call 314-292-5770 or go to crisisnurserykids.org.

B-25 bomber will be displayed at Smartt Field

St. Charles County - A display of historic aircraft, called "Summer
Barnstormers," will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 23-24 at the Smartt Field
airport, on Grafton Ferry Road north of Highway 94 North. Admission and parking
are free.

The display will include a B-25 bomber and museum. Also, the Experimental
Aircraft Association will offer free rides for youth ages 8-17. The first 100 to
sign up each day will be guaranteed a ride. The event is also an open house.
Kilroy's Restaurant at the airport will be open.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 15, 2008 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Antiquities smuggling cases are growing across the U.S. Today, federal
authorities will repatriate some 1,000 items, including a rare temple marker
worth $100,000, to Iraq.

BYLINE: By Tamara Lush The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Three years ago, an elderly Italian man pulled his van into a park in South
Florida to sell some rare, 2,500-year-old emeralds plundered from a South
American tomb. But the driver, Ugo Bagnato, an archaeologist, didn't know his
potential customer was a federal agent.

Bagnato flashed the green gems, which were as large as dominoes, and explained
to the immigration and customs agent that he had bribed South American
authorities and used fake paperwork to smuggle the goods into the United States.

Authorities discovered Bagnato had a cache of more than 400 artifacts from Peru
and Colombia, all predating Columbus' arrival in the Americas: burial shrouds,
jewelry, terra cotta pots and other treasures, all wedged in boxes in his van or
kept in a storage unit.

Bagnato was arrested, charged with the sale and receipt of stolen goods, and in
2006, pleaded guilty. He was later deported.

It was one of the largest antiquities smuggling cases ever prosecuted in the
U.S., but federal Immigrations and Customs Enforcement authorities say smuggling
of rare artifacts from around the globe into the United States is on the rise -
up from 63 cases in fiscal 2006 to 134 this fiscal year, which ends in two
weeks.

Such looting robs countries not only of treasures, but of their heritage - and
archaeologists say it also destroys valuable research opportunities.

"A nation's culture is not for sale. These are not souvenirs to be displayed at
someone's house," said Anthony Mangione, a special agent in charge of the Miami
office of the agency also known as ICE.

But that's exactly what's happening. There are several recent cases:

- Today, federal authorities will repatriate some 1,000 items, including a rare
temple marker worth $100,000, to Iraq. On June 7, 2001, ICE agents in New York
received information from the Art Loss Register that a Sumerian Foundation Cone,
buried under a Babylonian temple, was being sold by auction at Christie's New
York. ICE New York agents seized the artifact from Christie's and discovered
that it, and several other items in the U.S., had been stolen from the Baghdad
Museum and other locations at the end of the first Gulf War.

- In May, four tons of fossils from Argentina - including 200-million-year-old
dinosaur eggs, egg shell fragments, petrified pine cones and fossilized
prehistoric crabs - were seized by federal agents in Tucson, Ariz. Authorities
said a corporation based in Argentina had brought the fossils into the country.
No arrests have been made, but the fossils were repatriated.

- In February, an Army pilot was arrested and charged with stealing 370
pre-dynastic artifacts from the Ma'adi Museum near Cairo, Egypt, and selling
them to an art dealer in Texas for $20,000. The artifacts, dating to 3000 B.C.
and earlier, were originally discovered during excavations in Egypt in the 1920s
and 1930s. The pilot, Edward George Johnson, pleaded guilty in June and is
awaiting sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fewer immigrants head to the U.S. Census Bureau figures show a vast decline in
immigrants for 2007, with a drop to about a half-million from 1.8 million in
2006.

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The wave of immigrants entering the U.S. slowed dramatically last year as the
economy faltered and the government stepped up enforcement of immigration laws.

The nation added about a half-million immigrants in 2007, down from more than
1.8 million the previous year, according to estimates being released today by
the Census Bureau.

"The U.S. is still a beacon for many people who want to come here for all kinds
of reasons," said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution who
analyzed the numbers. "But what this shows is that the economy plays a big part
in it."

The U.S. has added an average of about 1 million immigrants a year since 1990,
including those in the country legally and illegally.

At more than 38 million, the number of immigrants in the U.S. is at an all-time
high. Immigrants made up 12.6 percent of the population in 2007, the largest
share since 1920, when the U.S. was nearing the end of its last immigration
boom, which brought millions of people from Europe to the United States.

That wave of immigrants ended with the Great Depression and the onset of World
War II.

The immigration figures are from the 2007 American Community Survey, the
government's annual survey of about 3 million households. The survey, which is
replacing the long form from the 10-year census, yields reams of demographic,
social and economic data about the nation.

Because the estimates come from a survey, each includes a margin of sampling
error that makes year-to-year comparisons inexact. Annual immigration changes
for many states and cities were within the margins of error, but the national
trend was statistically significant: The nation's immigration boom slowed
substantially in 2007.

The Census Bureau's estimates for immigrants include those in the country
legally and illegally because the agency does not ask about legal status.
Government and private estimates put the number of illegal immigrants in the
U.S. at about 12 million.

A little more than half of U.S. immigrants are from Latin America, and about a
quarter are from Asia. About 13 percent are from Europe and 4 percent from
Africa.

The latest immigration boom has sparked political and social turmoil in many
communities unaccustomed to large influxes of foreigners. About one in five U.S.
residents spoke a language other than English at home in 2007, about the same
share as in 2006.

The issue, however, has been muted in this year's presidential election in part
because Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack Obama support comprehensive
immigration packages that include increased enforcement and an eventual path to
citizenship for many illegal immigrants.

Obama and McCain aren't talking much about immigration reform - at least not in
English. Both, however, are running Spanish-language TV ads accusing the other
of derailing immigration packages supported by many Hispanics.

Voters say other issues are more important to them than immigration policy - the
economy, gas prices and education, according to the latest AP-Yahoo News poll.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Nation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Mexico quietly helps emigrants to the U.S. It funds adult classes in U.S. for
its citizens, some of whom are poorly educated or illiterate.

BYLINE: By Laura Wides-Munoz THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


For more than a decade, as the immigration debate has swelled on both sides of
the border, the Mexican government has been quietly providing money, materials
and even teachers to American schools, colleges and nonprofit organizations.

The programs aren't substitutes for U.S. curricula, but educators say they
provide a lifeline for adult students with little formal education by helping
them become literate in Spanish - and by extension, English.

Yet many educators are wary of even talking about the programs, fearing they
might stoke an anti-immigrant backlash.

The Mexican government, which spends more than $1 million annually on the
programs, has many reasons to provide the aid to the immigrants and their
children. The programs allow it to give back to the growing number of Mexicans
living legally and illegally in the U.S. Behind oil, remittances from these
individuals are the second-largest source of foreign income for the Mexican
economy - almost $24 billion last year.

"We don't want the Mexicans in the exterior to feel like milk cows being
expressed for the resources they were sending back," said Carlos Gonzalez
Gutierrez, head of the Mexican government's Institute for Mexicans Abroad, which
oversees most of the programs.

Mexicans abroad need an education to represent the country well, he said.

He also acknowledged that many of the adult participants are probably illegal
immigrants, a group the U.S. government doesn't want to allow to stay, let alone
have to support.

"Mexican involvement in American public education is another symptom of how
things are different than the Ellis Island era," said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks to limit
immigration. "With technology, distance doesn't really matter. You never really
leave the old country behind."

Krikorian said the U.S. shouldn't rely on Mexico to help integrate immigrants.

"Both the public and a lot of lawmakers want immigration on the cheap," he said.
"Contracting out to the Mexican government is a cop-out."

Such responses are exactly what educators fear might take the few educational
opportunities away from people such as Alfredo Ortiz, 43, of Chattanooga, Tenn.,
who came to the U.S. from the state of Chiapas with a third-grade education in
1992 and began picking cucumbers before becoming a landscaper. For years, he
says, he didn't have time to study, but more than that, the thought of
re-entering school terrified him.

Then he heard about a new program called "Plaza Comunitaria," or Community
Plaza, at Chattanooga State Technical College, where he could study Mexican
elementary and middle school subjects online, with assistance from volunteers
who receive stipends from Mexico.

Plaza Comunitaria is the Mexican government's biggest educational export
program. It began in 2002 in San Diego and now operates at 370 sites in 35
states from Oregon to Florida, providing $1 million in grants. But it's not the
only one. Mexico also donates nearly 10,000 Spanish-language school books a year
to U.S. academic institutions and community centers and sends more than 100
teachers to the U.S. to teach summer classes, among other programs.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 26, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Opening doors for immigrants

BYLINE: REPPS HUDSON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 944 words


ANNA CROSSLIN

Age: 58

Position: President and CEO, International Institute of St. Louis, since 1978

Education: bachelor of arts, political science, Washington University, 1975

Personal: lives in the Shaw neighborhood with her husband, Wayne Crosslin; one
daughter in college

---

Have you experienced prejudice?

Yeah, sure. When I was with my mother, I was dealt with one way. When I was with
my father, I was dealt with another way.Because you were part Asian and part
white?

It was the '50s in Seattle. Being Asian in Seattle was probably harder than
being African-American because there were no African-Americans.

How did that affect your career?

I have been able to do something that is meaningful but also makes sense to me
in terms of my own life frame. Growing up, I always was kind of jockeying with a
foot between two worlds. I feel I have a special sensitivity to what newcomers
go through when they first arrive here.

What does the International Institute do?

We provide services to more than 7,000 people a year from more than 100
countries. We also provide services for refugees - employment, counseling and
refugee resettlement. Those are from two to three dozen countries.

What's the difference between a refugee and an immigrant?

A refugee is someone escaping persecution. They come from war-torn areas
throughout the world. They come through the U.S. refugee program. They are here
legally, and they are being sponsored by an agency, either the International
Institute or Catholic Charities Refugee Services. The general immigrant
population comes primarily through family reunification or because they have
labor certification and they are coming to work for a company.

What issues do refugees face?

Depends on the population. Refugees have harder adjustment issues than
immigrants. They had to leave everything behind. A lot of times, there have been
family disruptions. Whole families might not arrive here. They had to
involuntarily leave individuals behind. Or part of the family got killed. They
have different issues within a larger set of language and cultural barriers.

How many Bosnians did St. Louis take?

We sponsored about 7,000 ourselves from 1993 to 2001. The Catholics sponsored
another 3,000. Today we estimate the Bosnia population to be 60,000 to 70,000,
including American-born children, in the St. Louis area. We are either the
largest or second-largest Bosnian community outside Bosnia.

I've heard that Bosnians make a desirable work force. What about other
nationalities?

We find refugees in general are pretty well sought after. Each population of
refugees brings with them a different set of skills. As refugee populations
shift, sometimes we have to shift our pool of employers with whom we are
working. This has been hard for some employers to understand. When the
Vietnamese first started coming here in the late '70s and '80s, we worked with a
lot of companies where manual dexterity was a sought-after skill. Their fine
motor skills were incredible. They kept some manufacturers going.

With each population, the group of employers changed. The Ethiopians - and other
Africans since then - have been very interested in being independently employed.
They started driving cabs.

Why?

I am not absolutely sure. Some get started in one area, and they help others.
There seems to be a focus in certain job areas. They attract people from certain
countries.

The Africans have bought their own cabs. For instance, Metropolitan Cab Co. has
50 cabs in its network. It's very entrepreneurial.

Is this the best use of their skills?

It's hard when someone comes over here and they were a doctor before. They may
not speak good English, and they are not going to be a doctor again. If they
are, it's going to be a long, long way down the road.

Do you have trouble finding jobs?

It's slowed down, but it hasn't stopped. We have to call companies to find out
if they need employees. With the economy tighter, we have to do a lot more
outreach. And because a lot of the entry-level manufacturing work isn't here
anymore.

Where do people go if they cannot get entry-level manufacturing jobs?

They do hotel housekeeping and catering. Child care. Not home child care.
Elderly services. Hospitals will take them with some training. In hospitals,
there are lots of ways to be promoted. If they can just get in, they have
opportunities to move up a ladder and develop a career instead of just working
at the corner restaurant the rest of their lives.

They work hard?

They do. It's not infrequent to have at least one family member working two
jobs. They work the first job to support the family here. They work the second
job to send money home to help their family there in really destitute
conditions.

Are refugees stepping into a hostile environment when they come to the U.S.?

Not more hostile than from where they are coming.

Has the institute repopulated the city?

Yeah. Refugees leave, but new ones come. The inevitability is the next
generation wants to leave and go somewhere.

What do you like about your job?

The same thing I dislike the most: No two days are ever the same. I am intrigued
by it, and I sometimes wish it were not as hectic as it is.

How much longer do you intend to keep working?

I just celebrated my 30th anniversary here. I don't plan to mark my 40th. I'll
probably retire in my mid-60s.

What's next?

I'd like to establish a credit union for new-arrival refugees. There are huge
financial literacy issues. Micro-lending goes on a lot more in the rest of the
world than it does here in the States. It's the village concept. They lend each
other money to start businesses. We have people coming here who understand
lending and banking differently than we do.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Five minutes with repps hudson

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO -ANNA CROSSLIN Laurie Skrivan | Post-Dispatch

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 10, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 483 words


ATLANTA

25 pct. of teen girls have received cancer vaccine

One in four teen girls has rolled up her sleeve for the relatively new vaccine
against cervical cancer, federal health officials said Thursday.

The figures represent the government's first substantial study of vaccination
rates for the Gardasil vaccine - Merck & Co.'s heavily advertised, three-shot
series that targets the sexually transmitted human papillomavirus.

Health officials recommend that girls get the shots when they are 11 or 12, if
possible, before they become sexually active.

WICHITA, KAN.

'Tribal chief' gets prison for immigration scam

One of the so-called tribal chiefs of a Kansas group that claims to be an
American Indian nation is going to prison for his role in a scheme to defraud
immigrants.

Chuck Flynn was sentenced Thursday to a year and a day in federal prison.

Prosecutors say the Kaweah Indian Nation sold tribal memberships to immigrants
and promised them that the memberships conferred U.S. citizenship. Federal
officials don't recognize the tribe as legitimate and even if they did,
immigrants could not obtain legal status by joining it.

ST. JOSEPH, MO.

Biden: McCain would reward banks for greed

Democratic vice presidential candidate Joe Biden said Thursday that Republican
John McCain keeps switching responses to the economic crisis and now advocates a
plan for troubled mortgages that would "reward banks and lenders for their
greedy behavior."

Democrats have increasingly tried to paint McCain as lurching from one position
to another in a bid to persuade voters that he would be capable as president of
addressing the nation's economic woes.

"Now he's gone to the point of actually wanting to reward banks and lenders for
their greedy behavior," Biden said. "Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a steady
hand."

McCain has proposed to devote $300 billion - nearly half the recent financial
rescue package passed by Congress - to buying troubled mortgages at face value
from financial institutions. McCain promotes it as a way to help homeowners.

WASHINGTON

Obama to air 30-minute prime time ad on TV

Already advertising at record levels, Barack Obama has scheduled a half-hour
commercial for prime time on Oct. 29, six days before Election Day.

Obama campaign officials said the campaign had secured a 30-minute block of time
at 8 p.m. on CBS and NBC. CBS was already juggling its prime-time lineup to
accommodate the Democratic presidential candidate, moving back an episode of
"The New Adventures of Old Christine."

Such a vast purchase of commercial time is a multimillion-dollar expense, but
Obama has been spending dramatically on ads, overshadowing rival John McCain and
the Republican National Committee.

Briefly

- NRA for McCain: The National Rifle Association is endorsing Republican
presidential nominee John McCain despite differences with the Arizona senator on
gun-show rules and campaign finance restrictions.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DIGEST

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Thank You, Mr. Pitt At an open house Thursday, Gloria Guy of
New Orleans checks out a home damaged by Hurricane Katrina from the rear window
of her new home. Her home was built by Brad Pitt's "Make It Right" program and
is one of the first to be completed in the actor's project in the Lower 9th
Ward.   The Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

WHAT WILL HE DO? We look at five key issues and how obama and mccain say they'll
act. After you make your decisions Tuesday, the President-Elect will start
making his.

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1132 words


FOREIGN POLICY ( Barack Obama)

Withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq by 2011 and prod Iraqis to take up their own
defense while being "as careful getting out as we were careless getting in."
Thinks the war was a mistake.

Meet without preconditions with leaders of hostile nations, including Iran. Says
President George W. Bush's refusal to meet with adversaries has not resolved
differences while further isolating America.

Send more troops to Afghanistan from Iraq.

Launch cross-border attacks from Afghanistan inside Pakistan if it would help
take out top al-Qaida targets and Pakistan refused to act.

( John McCain)

Leave troops in Iraq based on "conditions on the ground." Says U.S. troops are
now winning the war, which he supported on the basis that Saddam Hussein posed a
threat.

Refuse to meet with leaders who are linked with terrorists, detest the United
States or say they seek to destroy Israel. Says such meetings would only lend
legitimacy to those leaders.

Direct more resources to Afghanistan but is wary of transferring troops from
Iraq until conditions are more stable.

Be reluctant to violate the sovereignty of Pakistan, an ally; would work to
persuade Pakistan to go after terrorists.

IMMIGRATION

( Barack Obama)

Secure borders through additional personnel, infrastructure and technology. Has
not made border security a precondition for legalization and other elements of
his immigration plan.

Provide a path to citizenship for those in the country illegally if they pay a
fine and learn English. Those who qualify would go to the "back of the line"
behind other applicants for legal residency.

Establish an electronic verification system to ensure worker eligibility and
crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Expand guest-worker program to a level that keeps families together and meets
the demand for jobs that employers cannot fill.

( John McCain)

Secure the borders with physical and virtual barriers, unmanned aircraft,
beefed-up enforcement and other measures.

Provide a path to citizenship for those here illegally if they pay a fine, learn
English, pass a citizenship test and pay back taxes. Those who qualify would go
to the "back of the line" behind other applicants for legal residency.

Establish an electronic verification system to ensure worker eligibility and
crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Expand guest-worker program for unskilled workers to fill jobs generally
bypassed by U.S. workers. The number would depend on market demand. Workers
would have to return home after their temporary visas expired, but a limited
number could stay longer.

ENERGY

( Barack Obama)

Give $4 billion in loans and tax credits to the U.S. auto industry to retool
plants to turn out plug-in hybrid vehicles.

Expand offshore drilling if paired with support for renewable energy sources.

Tap the country's emergency oil stockpile to relieve pump prices.

Give families $1,000 energy rebate checks.

Allow the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to rein in unscrupulous
speculators in oil futures.

Impose a windfall profits tax on the oil industry.

Invest $150 billion by 2018 in next-generation ethanol, cleaner-coal production.

Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent below 1990 levels with a
cap-and-trade system that puts a price on pollution and gives plants flexibility
to meet emission limits.

( John McCain)

Build 45 new nuclear power plants by 2030.

Expand oil and gas drilling in the ocean.

Temporarily suspend the federal tax on gasoline and diesel.

Award a $300 million prize for developing a battery package that would advance
commercial availability for plug-in hybrids or electric cars.

Spend $2 billion a year on research to reduce coal-burning pollution.

Allow a $5,000 tax credit for purchase of zero-emission cars, with lesser
credits for new autos emitting lower carbon emissions.

Replace temporary tax credits for wind, solar and other renewable energy sources
with permanent credits.

Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60 percent below 1990 levels under
cap-and-trade.

HEALTHCARE

( Barack Obama)

Require health insurance for children, not for adults.

Aim for universal coverage by requiring larger employers to share costs of
insuring workers and offering coverage similar to that in plan for federal
employees. Spend $50 billion on information technology over five years to reduce
health care costs.

Cost: $1.6 trillion over 10 years. Source: The Associated Press, Tax Policy
Center

( John McCain)

Create a $2,500 refundable tax credit for individuals, $5,000 for families, to
help pay for health insurance,

Not require universal coverage.

Tax those payments that businesses and their workers make toward
employer-sponsored health insurance.

Cost: $1.3 trillion over 10 years.

ECONOMY/TAXES

( Barack Obama)

Raise taxes on families making more than $250,000 a year, repeal the Bush tax
cuts and lower taxes for those making less than $150,000 a year. o End tax
breaks for companies that outsource jobs to other countries, giving the cuts
instead to domestic companies that generate jobs.

Give $80 billion in tax breaks to poor and elderly workers.

Raise the Earned Income Tax Credit for minimum-wage workers and higher credit
for larger families.

Provide a mortgage-interest credit for lower-income homeowners who do not
receive a mortgage-interest deduction because they do not itemize their taxes.

Institute a 90-day freeze on foreclosures by any financial institution that is
being bailed out by the government and penalty-free hardship withdrawals from
retirement funds.

Raise the capital gains rate to 20% for couples making more than $250,000 and
single filers with incomes greater than $200,000.

( John McCain)

Use $300 billion from the bailout plan to buy "bad" mortgages, allowing people
to renegotiate with the banks to stay in their homes.

Eliminate taxes on unemployment compensation.

Cut the capital gains tax in half.

Order the Treasury to insure 100 percent of savings for up to six months.

Reduce the tax rate on Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k) plans to the
lowest rate, 10 percent, on the first $50,000 withdrawn.

Make Bush tax cuts permanent.

Cut corporate tax rate to 25 percent.

Allow new businesses to write off equipment and technology purchases in their
first year. - Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau and news services.

---

Other candidates' views

The other presidential candidates on the ballot in Missouri or Illinois are
Charles Baldwin of the Constitution Party; Bob Barr of the Libertarian Party;

Cynthia McKinney of the Green Party; and Ralph Nader, of the Independent Party.
Their positions on the issues can be found online at STLtoday.com/politics

---

OPINION - CLIP 'N' SAVE ENDORSEMENT GUIDE

Confused about that long ballot on Tuesday? The Post-Dispatch editorial
endorsements are summarized, with Internet links for readers who want more
information. B2

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  After you make your decisions Tuesday,  the president-elect will start
making his.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Guest workers already are being exploited

BYLINE: BOB HERBERT Copyright The New York Times

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 666 words


A must-read for anyone who favors an expansion of guest worker programs in the
United States is a stunning new report from the Southern Poverty Law Center that
details the widespread abuse of highly vulnerable, poverty-stricken workers in
programs that already exist. It's titled "Close to Slavery: Guestworker Programs
in the United States."

The report found that workers recruited from Mexico, South America, Asia and
elsewhere to work in American hotels and in such labor-intensive industries as
forestry, seafood processing and construction often are exploited ruthlessly.

They routinely are cheated out of their wages, which are low to begin with. They
are bound like indentured servants to the middlemen and employers who arrange
their work tours in the United States. And they are virtual hostages of the
American companies that employ them.

The law does not allow these "guests" to change jobs while they're here. If a
particular employer is unscrupulous, as very often is the case, the worker has
little or no recourse.

One of the guest workers profiled in the report was a psychology student
recruited in the Dominican Republic to work at a hotel in New Orleans in the
aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The woman had taken on $4,000 in debt to cover
"fees" and other expenses that were required for her to get a desk job that paid
$6 an hour.

After a month, her hours were reduced steadily until she was working only 15 or
20 hours a week. That left her with barely enough money to survive and no way of
paying off her crushing debt.

The woman and her fellow guest workers hardly had enough money for food. "We
would just buy Chinese food because it was the cheapest," she said. "We would
buy one plate a day and share it between two or three people." She told the
authors of the report: "I felt like an animal without claws - defenseless. It is
the same as slavery."

The report focused primarily on the 120,000 foreign workers who are allowed into
the United States each year to work on farms or at other low-skilled jobs. In
most cases, the guest workers take on a heavy debt load to participate in the
program - anywhere from $500 to more than $10,000. Worried about the welfare of
their families back home, and with the huge debt hanging over their heads, the
workers most often are docile, even in the face of the most egregious treatment.

The result, said the report, is that they are "systematically exploited and
abused."

Some of the worst abuses occur in the forestry industry. "Virtually every
forestry company that the Southern Poverty Law Center has encountered provides
workers with pay stubs showing that they have worked substantially fewer hours
than they actually worked," the report said.

A favorite and extremely cruel tactic of employers is the seizure of guest
workers' identity documents, including passports and Social Security cards. That
leaves the workers incredibly vulnerable.

"Numerous employers have refused to return these documents even when the worker
simply wanted to return to his home country," the report said. "The Southern
Poverty Law Center also has encountered numerous incidents where employers
destroyed passports or visas in order to convert workers into undocumented
status."

Without their papers, the workers live in abject fear of encountering the
authorities, who will treat them as illegals. They are completely at the mercy
of the employers.

President Bush has been relentless in his push to greatly expand guest worker
programs as part of his effort to revise the nation's immigration laws. To
expand these programs without looking closely at the gruesome abuses already
taking place would be both tragic and ridiculous.

"This is not a situation where there are just a few bad-apple employers," said
Mary Bauer, director of the Immigrant Justice Project at the Southern Poverty
Law Center, which has initiated a number of lawsuits on behalf of abused
workers. "Our experience is that it's the very structure of the program that
lends itself to abuse."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (illustration of agricultural work) Dead Roher | Newsart

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Recruiters prey on migrants, critics say Workers o Some are pressured to pay
fees, then kept in debt. Employers o Guest workers they hire may be unsuited for
jobs.

BYLINE: By Traci Carl the Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico


Outside the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey, hundreds of Mexicans wait anxiously for
temporary work visas. But even before they were fingerprinted and interviewed
for the permit, many had already paid recruiters thousands of dollars in hopes
of easing the way.

Supplying the U.S. guest worker program is a complex and sometimes criminal
network of foreign recruiters who extort money from poor migrants and then keep
them on the job by forcing them into debt or threatening their families back
home.

Employers also are often at the recruiters' mercy, forced to accept workers who
could be desperately in debt or simply wrong for the job.

"Everyone has the same complaint. Everyone you see here is in debt," said
Gilberto Escalante, 41, a fisherman waiting outside the consulate in Monterrey.
"But there aren't any other options. ... The recruiter has all the power."

All employers need to do to secure federal permission to hire foreign workers is
provide proof that no American wants the job. Once that request is granted,
companies rely on recruiters to do the rest, and the U.S. government stands
back.

Critics argue that the program desperately needs oversight and protections for
both employers and workers, but demands for such an overhaul appear to have been
ignored.

Escalante, from the western Mexican fishing town of Topolobampo, spent $1,500 on
fees and other expenses dictated by the recruiter before even beginning the visa
process, which costs about $200 in consular fees if approved.

Once approved, he climbed aboard a bus dictated by the recruiter, which charged
him $110 - double the going rate - to carry him to his sixth year working in the
shrimp industry in Mississippi.

Few file formal complaints or speak out against fraudulent practices. It's not
worth risking the chance to earn more in an hour than many do in a full day of
work in Mexico.

Such fraud happens on a global scale, but there is no recruiting network more
powerful or vast than in Mexico, where the U.S. government issued 90,466
agricultural and other seasonal work visas in 2005, 70 percent of the 129,327
handed out globally that year.

In a recent report, the Southern Poverty Law Center said migrants from Asia and
Latin America had signed over the deeds to their homes and faced insurmountable
debt and near slavery in return for the promise of a visa.

Mexican law prohibits recruiters from charging exorbitant fees, but it's rarely
enforced, and U.S. law is silent on the issue.

Recruiter Rene Urbano says he has constantly fought against abuse and fraud in
his eight years matching Mexican workers with U.S. employers. Standing in the
desert outpost of Huachichil, he encourages workers in potato fields and apple
orchards to put themselves on a waiting list, assuring them they don't have to
pay until he finds them a job.

Many U.S. employers want to eliminate the recruiters but can't because they
don't speak Spanish and lack contacts in Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - A Mexican man holds worker petition forms as he waits outside the U.S.
Consulate in Monterrey, Mexico, this month for an interview to get a visa to
work in the United States.  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

4,000 farmworkers could lose homesite

BYLINE: By Gillian Flaccus THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: THERMAL, CALIF.


Life is harsh for the 4,000 migrant workers who live in the Desert Mobile Home
Park, where hundreds of dilapidated dwellings sit along dirt streets. The
110-degree air is thick with large black flies and the stench of raw sewage.
Wild dogs prowl the alleys.

But conditions could get even worse if the federal government follows through on
its threat to close this site on a sun-baked Indian reservation because of
rampant health and safety violations.

"Where are we going to go, where are they going to put us?" asked Angelina
Cisneros, 59, who lives with her family of four in a crumbling sea-green
trailer. "We don't have any money."

Coachella Valley is one of the nation's richest farming regions and home to
five-star tourist destinations, such as Palm Springs. But the thousands of
migrant workers who toil in the fields struggle to find housing. On annual wages
of just $12,000, many families can afford only squalid homes.

Desert Mobile Home Park is unusual because it's on the Torres Martinez Indian
Reservation - beyond the reach of state and local governments.

The Bureau of Indian Affairs is preparing to ask a federal judge next month to
order a phased closure of the park over four months. The bureau is working with
county officials to find alternative housing - a daunting prospect in a region
southeast of Los Angeles.

The migrant workers are essential to the farming economy, harvesting nearly $1
billion in the region's crops.

A number of agricultural areas across the country are facing similar problems.
In Washington state, some migrants have lived in a tent camp for four years on
commercial land near an airport. In North Carolina, the governor is considering
a bill that would allow close monitoring of migrant housing conditions.

In California, farmworker advocates want the federal government to take over the
trailer park and make urgent repairs while working out a closure plan.

The conflict began in the late 1990s, when local officials began cracking down
on illegal trailer parks hidden away on county land. Harvey Duro, a member of
the Torres Martinez Desert Cahuilla Indians, opened 40 acres of his land to
migrant workers who were being displaced.

In 2004, federal officials ordered numerous repairs after finding clean-water
violations, open sewage, illegal dumping and overcrowding.

Alan Singer, a spokesman for Duro, said the landlord has spent tens of thousands
of dollars on repairs. "If the park is shut down, it will be a total disaster,"
Singer said. "They'll live where they used to live, which is under trees and in
cars because that's the only place they have."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Cisneros

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Grass is greener in St. Louis Part 1 of 2 o One Mexican village has become a
company town - with the company 1,600 miles away.

BYLINE: By Linda Lutton Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1420 words

DATELINE: La Esperanza, MEXICO


Surrounded by strawberry fields and rows of corn, the small town of La Esperanza
is a postcard from rural Mexico. There is the plaza, the church. There are the
tile-roofed homes, the bougainvillea flowers spilling over walls, the teenage
boys on horseback.

And there is the landscaping recruiter from St. Louis.

He comes in February. For years now, an American with a buzz cut - an employee
of Fenton-based Top Care Lawn Service Inc. - has stopped in La Esperanza to fill
out his employee roster and help men here get visas to work legally for Top
Care.

Last February, after visiting this town and others across Mexico, he returned
with 150 men signed up to work.

Most have spent the past months mowing lawns and planting flowers in the St.
Louis area.

"I guess the government told the company to get only legal people," said Andrés
Salomón, 29, explaining why recruiters would travel 1,600 miles to hire him and
others from this town, which lies about 120 miles southeast of Guadalajara.
Salomón is now in the St. Louis area in his sixth season as a guest worker.

The landscaping industry in St. Louis is rapidly being staffed by foreign
laborers who enter the United States on a temporary visa for nonagricultural
workers, known as the "H-2B" visa. Many of those six- to nine-month jobs start
at $8 an hour - slightly above minimum wage in Missouri, but a ticket out of
poverty in Mexico, at least for the season.

More than 100 St. Louis-area lawn and landscape companies were authorized to
bring more than 2,700 workers last year, up from about 1,000 in 2001, according
to the Labor Department. Almost 400 people also were authorized to work in other
industries last year.

Those figures represent the total visas authorized, not the actual numbers of
workers that came. Some companies may hire fewer than they are authorized to
bring. The number of workers that actually arrived in St. Louis was unavailable.

SAFER WITH VISAS

Over the past nine years, as U.S. employers' appetite for H-2B workers has
grown, La Esperanza has become a town of guest workers. It's difficult to find a
woman here whose husband, son or father isn't working "on contract" somewhere in
the United States. And each year, it seems, there's another company importing
workers from La Esperanza.

About 80 men from La Esperanza, a town of 1,129 people, work as St. Louis
landscapers; others are guest workers in Nevada and Indiana, and on a separate
program in Canada. But the primary destination is "San Luis," a fact made clear
by the Missouri-plated pickups rolling slowly over La Esperanza's stone roads.

"It's better now that they go with a visa," says Irma Zárate, Salomón's mother,
voicing a sentiment heard everywhere in town. The most common alternative -
crossing illegally into the U.S. - has become more difficult, dangerous and
costly because of increased border security. "What are my worries when Andrés
goes with a visa?" asks Zárate, who runs a small grocery store in town. "None!"

La Esperanza's history as a town of guest workers can be traced to immigration
raids on St. Louis businesses in 1997. A handful of men from La Esperanza were
already working for St. Louis commercial landscaping firms - many illegally -
when the raids hit.

Supervisors at Top Care asked workers to find friends and relatives back in
Mexico who'd be interested in coming to St. Louis on guest worker visas. Rafa
Delgado, a native of La Esperanza, was in charge of making the list.

"They gave me the chance to sign up as many people as I wanted," says Delgado,
now a salaried supervisor for Loyet Landscape Maintenance - and in his ninth
year as a guest worker.

"From there, we've signed up more and more people," says Delgado.

In La Esperanza, it's hard to say which is growing faster - workers' interest in
obtaining the visas or companies' appetite for workers. Each year, St.
Louis-area lawn care companies have petitioned for more workers. In addition to
Top Care and Loyet, Brake Landscaping and Lawncare hired guest workers from La
Esperanza this year.

Loyet's work force is composed primarily of guest workers, according to Delgado.
The only employees who live permanently in the U.S. are "the people who enter
things into the computers - the superintendents and the secretaries," he says.

To qualify to bring in guest workers, employers must demonstrate annually that
they cannot find qualified workers residing in the U.S. So far, this provision
has posed no threat to the guest workers' jobs; most from La Esperanza are so
certain of their positions from year to year that they leave clothes and cars in
St. Louis while returning to Mexico to reapply for another temporary visa.

SECOND GENERATION

Sitting on the concrete patio outside his family's house in La Esperanza, days
before he's scheduled to pick up the red, white and blue visa that will be
stamped into his Mexican passport, 19-year-old Fernando Echavarría imagines what
St. Louis will be like.

The work with Loyet Landscape Maintenance: "Not too hard," he supposes. Life:
"It'll just be a lot of work and then straight back home," he says. Weekends:
"You go to the (grocery) stores, no?"

Fernando's father has worked in the U.S. since Fernando can remember; he's now a
St. Louis landscaper on a guest worker visa himself. For years, a kitchen magnet
of the Gateway Arch has been stuck to the Echavarrías' refrigerator in La
Esperanza.

Like many here, Fernando's father tried to get his son signed up as a guest
worker as soon as the boy turned 18. Since he was 9 or 10 years old, Fernando
thought he'd probably end up working in the United States. Still, he says, he
wouldn't have gone now if it hadn't been for the guest worker visa, because
crossing illegally seems too risky.

Fernando already has worked at about the only jobs there are in La Esperanza:
laboring in corn and strawberry fields. The going wage for field work here is
about $12 dollars a day. Picking strawberries - the region's main cash crop -
pays just under $1 per 5-gallon bucket. Occasionally someone pays Fernando to
nail shoes onto a horse - that brings in $2.30 per hoof.

The wages might be enough to get by on if the work were steady and if nothing
out of the ordinary came up, says Adán Cárdenas, the representative of the
town's communal land owners and a local leader in the national farm workers
union.

"But there's not always work," says Cárdenas. "Sometimes there's only enough
strawberries to fill two buckets" in a day. That's barely enough to buy beans
and tortillas needed to feed a family for a day, he notes.

Building a house, buying a pickup or starting a small business are dreams that
come true only by heading north.

"The Mexican countryside has become a factory of migrants," says Rodolfo García
Zamora, a development and immigration researcher at the Autonomous University of
Zacatecas. Families unable to make a living from their small plots of land see
greater opportunities in the U.S. than they do in the cities of their own
country.

Even the handful of people with nonfarm jobs trade them for a guest worker visa
to St. Louis. Abraham Chávez, an auto mechanic with a steady job in the nearby
city of Zamora, was making about $85 a week, more than triple the region's
minimum wage. He's now in St. Louis, one of 260 guest workers that Top Care was
authorized to bring this year.

La Esperanza feels like a company town - except that the company is 1,600 miles
away.

Having the guest workers "benefits all of us, even those of us who don't go,"
says Rosa Bermúdez, 34, who hawks cosmetics from a tote bag she carries with her
constantly. It's stocked with perfumes and lipstick, lotions and roll-on
deodorant that she sells for $1.20, often to women with husbands or fathers in
St. Louis.

Few here seem to have considered what would happen if the unimaginable happened
- if the visa program were canceled, or if Top Care or Loyet or Brake decided to
turn to some other town - or some other country - for its workers.

If they had any forewarning at all, "the workers would just stay in the U.S.,"
guesses Fernando.

"God forbid it," says Zárate from behind the counter in her store. "Can you
imagine all the people who would risk their lives trying to go illegally? It
would be a crisis."

---

Freelance journalist Linda Lutton lives in Mexico, where she writes about
migration and culture.

---

About our series

This is Part 1 of a two-part series about St. Louis within a global labor
market.

Coming Monday

Post-Dispatch reporter Tim Logan looks at why landscaping firms are pulling
Mexican workers into the area labor market.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Miguel Murillo (left), 34, and José Luis López, 72, plant corn in La
Esperanza, Mexico. Field work is about the only job available in this town, and
they earn between 120 and 150 pesos  -  about $12  -  a day. Photo by Linda
Lutton  PHOTO - Irma Zárate runs a small grocery in La Esperanza, Mexico. Her
son is in his sixth season as a guest worker for a lawn care  company in the St.
Louis area, and she is glad he is here legally. Photo by Linda Lutton

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nixon alleges 'secret bailout' for O'Fallon project

BYLINE: By Nancy Cambria ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH The Associated Press
contributed to this report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 595 words


Missouri Attorney General Jay Nixon lambasted some members of the state's
housing commission Wednesday, accusing them of granting a "secret bailout" worth
millions in additional tax breaks to a development tied to illegal immigrant
labor in O'Fallon.

Nixon said the commission, under the guidance of then-chair, state Treasurer
Sarah Steelman, and its executive director, Peter Ramsel, bypassed a required
full commission vote and promised some $4 million in additional state tax
credits to Gundaker Commercial Group in August 2006. He called for the
commission to immediately block the credits, which have yet to be issued.

The additional credits were intended to help Gundaker, a minority investor, buy
out the contractor in the complex partnership and pay for more expensive union
labor to finish the project. In February of last year, subcontractors for NRP of
Cleveland were found to be using illegal immigrant workers at the construction
site.

Steelman said Wednesday that Nixon's remarks were politically motivated. Nixon,
a Democrat, is running for governor; Steelman is a Republican.

"Nothing was done in secret," she said. "I wanted to make sure Gundaker didn't
get any tax credits if it was going to have illegal workers. They fixed it, and
they hired all union labor."

Ramsel could not be reached for comment. The commission's chairman, Richard
Baalmann, pledged Wednesday to look into the matter.

In total, Gundaker has been promised more than $21.4 million in state and
federal tax credits through the commission and $16.6 million in tax exempt bonds
for the project.

Mike Hejna, president of Gundaker, said his company never employed the illegal
labor and defended the additional tax breaks.

"They were awarded to the project so the project could afford to hire local
union tradesman to complete the work," he said.

Nixon's office is also investigating allegations of illegal immigrant workers at
another O'Fallon project receiving tax credits.

Nixon said not only was Steelman involved in the Gundaker tax credit decision,
but it also included Gov. Matt Blunt's then-representative to the commission,
Rob Monsees. Last year both Steelman and Blunt called for sanctions and other
punishments of Gundaker after the arrests of undocumented workers on the site.

"These documents reveal that while some were firing news releases condemning
Gundaker's use of undocumented workers out the front door, millions in state tax
credits and tax-exempt bonds were being secretly funneled to Gundaker out the
back door," Nixon said.

Nixon and Blunt, the likely contestants for next year's gubernatorial election,
have sparred about immigration policies.

Richard Chrismer, a spokesman for Blunt, said Nixon and the entire housing
commission were aware of the situation with Gundaker, and that Nixon should back
Blunt's initiatives instead of lambasting Steelman. Blunt has called for a
lifetime tax credit ban against developers who use illegal labor.

Housing commission internal e-mails provided by Nixon's office indicate that
Steelman, Ramsel and various aides at first negotiated giving Gundaker a loan on
behalf of the commission. That was later scrapped for the additional tax credits
- of which Ramsel said "the downside is that we just rewarded bad behavior."

In one e-mail to Steelman's deputy treasurer, Doug Gaston, Ramsel proposed that
"we do our thing very quietly, and at the staff level."

News of the additional tax credits infuriated O'Fallon officials.

"The left hand is giving the money out, while the right hand is shaking the
finger," said O'Fallon Mayor Donna Morrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTOS (2) - HE ASSAILS MEMBERS OF HOUSING PANEL Attorney general (left) calls
on state commission to block additional tax credits for a development tied to
illegal labor. Member Sarah Steelman (right) calls the accusations political and
denies any secrecy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 23, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Let's not ignore a lesson from history

BYLINE: BILL McCLELLAN

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 683 words


You might think that after our invasion of Iraq, we would know something about
unintended consequences. We found no weapons of mass destruction, no connections
to Osama bin Laden. What have we actually accomplished other than strengthening
Iran by removing its traditional enemy? This is what happens when you blunder
into things without thinking.

Now some politicians are talking about the national security implications of our
porous border with Mexico. For reasons of national security, we must do
something, they say.

There are problems with Mexicans illegally entering this country. One problem
has to do with labor. Illegal workers depress wages. Another has to do with the
costs of social services. But national security? There were as many Mexicans
involved in the attacks of 9/11 as there were Iraqis. None. The illegal workers
from Mexico do not want to blow up our buildings. They want to put new roofs on
them. Perhaps that work should go to U.S. citizens, but that argument has
nothing to do with national security.

But let's reflect for a moment about unintended consequences.

Ever since Pancho Villa raided New Mexico in 1916, we have been blessed with
peace on our southern border. And what a blessing that is. Many countries have
to be ever mindful of the enemy next door.

Bear in mind that our relationship with Mexico is not a relationship of equals.
We're the Colossus. We're richer, more stable. We're the epitome of the First
World. Mexico is emerging from the Third World. That fuels a certain resentment.
What's more, a big chunk of our southwest used to be Mexico. Texas, for
instance. A good part of California, as well.

That history and the natural resentment from an unequal relationship could be
exploited by the wrong person. Who would that person be? Somebody from the left.
Because of its history of oligarchy, there is a strong leftist tradition in
Mexican politics, and the political center in Mexico is well to the left of
ours. That seems to be true throughout Latin America. Hugo Chavez could not win
an election in this country. Nor could Daniel Ortega. We're too prosperous to
get excited about revolution.

So the stability of Mexico is important to us. We don't want any charismatic
left-winger to grab the controls. That came close to happening in 2006 when
Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the Democratic Revolution Party narrowly lost the
presidency. His supporters took to the streets. For a short while, it seemed
touch and go. After all, democracy is fragile in Mexico. One party ruled the
country for more than 70 years until Vicente Fox won the presidency in 2000.

Fox was a conservative. For Mexico, anyway. He was pro-business, a former
executive with Coca-Cola. The voters expected change, and when there wasn't
enough of it, they almost elected López Obrador.

What would happen if we closed the border?

There would be great hardship throughout Mexico. There are hundreds, thousands,
of villages where there is no industry, and the economy is evolving away from
subsistence farming. The small patches of land are not economically viable. If
you were to visit these villages, you would see women, old men, children and
dogs. The young men have left - some to the cities, most to the U.S. The ones in
the U.S. send money back to the villages. These remesas keep the villages alive.
If they were to stop, people would have no money and then the small shops would
go out of business. The people would leave the villages to the dogs and head to
the cities.

It is from the slums of the cities that the leftists draw their strength. If the
border were closed, the slums would expand. Hopelessness and anger would grow.
Someone would capitalize on this desperation.

We would be lucky if it were a Hugo Chavez, who seems like something of a clown.
Or an Ortega, who seems at heart a pragmatic. But whoever it is, he or she would
almost certainly use the natural resentment against us as a club, a weapon. We
would be blamed for their problems, and in a real sense, it would be our fault.
Once again, we would have blundered into something without first thinking it
through.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 393 words


WASHINGTON

Bush will push plan for peace in Mideast visit

President George W. Bush will visit the Mideast early next month as he presses
the Israelis and Palestinians to resume long-stalled peace talks and forge an
elusive agreement for an independent Palestinian homeland.

The White House would not disclose details of Bush's itinerary, but an Israeli
television station said he will go to Israel for the first time in his
presidency.

WASHINGTON

Online database will list chemicals in toys

Parents worried about toy safety after a record year of recalls can now look
through a list of more than 1,200 items that a coalition of public interest
groups has tested for lead and other harmful chemicals, although toy industry
officials say that the list may cause unnecessary alarm.

The coalition, led by the Ecology Center of Ann Arbor, Mich. found more than 200
items that contained unsafe levels of lead, as well as hundreds of others that
had little or no lead. The results are scheduled to be released today in an
online datab1ase at www.healthytoys.org.

MEREDITH, N.H.

Romney fires firm that had undocumented workers

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, ridiculed by rival Rudy Giuliani
for employing illegal immigrants at his "sanctuary mansion," said Tuesday he had
fired the landscaper for his suburban Boston home after learning for a second
time about undocumented workers laboring on the property.

Romney termed the recurrence "disappointing and inexcusable." The company,
Community Lawn Service of Chelsea, Mass., did not immediately return a call
seeking comment.

The former Massachusetts governor has made combatting illegal immigration a core
theme of his White House run.

JENA, LA.

Family of 'Jena Six' victim files civil suits

The family of the victim in the "Jena Six" case has sued the adults accused of
beating him, the families of the juveniles allegedly involved and the board of
the school where the attack occurred.

Justin Barker and his parents, David and Kelli, also accuse a seventh, uncharged
student of being part of the group that attacked Justin on Dec. 4, 2006, as he
walked out of Jena High School's gym headed to another class.

The charges against the students accused of attacking Barker led to a civil
rights demonstration in Jena in September by activists who alleged local
authorities were prosecuting blacks more harshly than whites.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Navigational aid A man kayaks Tuesday on flooded Interstate 5 in
Chehalis, Wash. A storm that battered the Pacific Northwest for two days moved
on Tuesday, leaving behind flooded homes, fallen trees and washed-out roads.
Bruce Ely | The Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

PRESIDENTIAL BUZZ WEEKLY UPDATE ON THE RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE

BYLINE: Compiled by Matthew Fernandes | Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 160 words


JFK REDUX

In a long-awaited speech designed to reassure voters who are wary of his Mormon
faith, Mitt Romney promised that the Mormon church would not run the White House
if he was elected. He mentioned the word "Mormon" just once during the speech.

WHO'S UP?

After surging in an Iowa poll two weeks earlier, Mike Huckabee pulled into
second place behind Giuliani, in a national survey of Republicans and
Republican-leaning voters.

LANDSCAPER BOOTED

Romney, ridiculed by Rudy Giuliani for employing illegal immigrants at his
"sanctuary mansion," fi red the landscaper for his suburban Boston home after
learning for a second time about undocumented workers laboring on the property.

QUOTED

"People who knowingly hire undocumented workers I think need to be held
accountable to a far higher degree of penalties - civil and possibly criminal."

Christopher Dodd

---

Keep up with the candidates and add your comments in our Presidential Buzz blog
at STLtoday.com/presidentialbuzz

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 381 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The employer

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 357 words


Stan Nowack had seen it coming. He knew other companies in the landscaping
business were hiring temporary workers from Latin America. But he resisted.

Nowack, the CEO of Maryland Heights-based Green Turf Grounds Beautification Co.,
didn't like the idea of using foreign workers. There's always been a stigma, he
says.

Still, Nowack needs people to dig ditches and holes. It's grueling work in hot
sun for about nine months out of the year. He runs criminal background checks,
and his employees are drug tested. And workers have to be able to drive to a job
site.

Given those stipulations, Nowack says he just can't find steady American workers
to do the job. Sometimes somebody will apply and then bail after a few days. Or
even sooner, when Nowack's company sets up a urine screening.

So Nowack turned to the government's H-2B visa program, which brings in a
limited number of foreign workers, many from Mexico, for seasonal jobs that
employers can't fill.

He hires six to eight workers, finds them furnished apartments and pays them
about $10 an hour and sometimes more depending on experience and prevailing
wages.

The program is officially capped at just 66,000 temporary workers nationally
each year, though some special exemptions have expanded the number of visas to
well beyond 100,000.

Nowack praises his workers as hardworking, dutiful and happy for the work. He
figures his industry and others could easily accept even more.

But Congress has let exemptions for the program lapse, meaning the number of
H-2B workers will shrink this year, unless something changes. Nowack blames
political pressure and stigma over foreign workers - even legal ones. He now
fears not having enough people to expand his business or justify needed
purchases - $100,000 for two new vans and a new tractor.

So what should be done? For a start, lock down the borders and increase
employment regulation, he says. Cut off the stream of illegal immigrants.

But at the same time, help U.S. businesses by expanding the H-2B program. His
company needs it, he says. So do others.

"I'd prefer to hire Americans," he says, "But the reality is that I need those
foreign workers."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ISSUE 2008 IMMIGRATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Stan Nowack (right), owner of Green Turf landscaping company, stands
with his general manager, Joe Cortopassi, Tuesday morning on a trencher and
vibratory plow at the company's headquarters in Maryland Heights. John L. White
| Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
