
                               1 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH GUEST WORKER PLAN PROVOKES SHARPLY SPLIT OPINIONS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1400 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush again is pushing a plan that could grant temporary work permits
to millions of illegal workers, giving immigration advocates new hope that it
will become law.

"It is time for an immigration policy that permits temporary guest workers to
fill jobs Americans will not take, that rejects amnesty, that tells us who is
entering and leaving our country, and that closes the border to drug dealers and
terrorists," Bush said Feb. 2 in his State of the Union address.

But the plan still faces serious obstacles, including strong opposition from a
group of about 70 House conservatives led by Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who has
called it a "pig with lipstick."

Bush plugged his plan in last year's State of the Union address as well, but it
went nowhere in Congress. Some observers say upcoming political battles on
Social Security and tax reform could sap enthusiasm for the guest worker plan
again this year.

Still, immigrant advocates, Hispanic groups, lawmakers and business
organizations say they are cautiously optimistic that a legalization plan could
win approval.

"If we do this right, it should be historic," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president
of the National Council of La Raza, a large and influential Hispanic civil
rights group.

"You can see the coalition that's prepared to support it," she said. "The
religious community of multiple denominations, a variety of ethnic
constituencies in the United States, the civil rights community, the business
community and the labor community. . . . The only people keeping this from
happening are people doing the fear-mongering."

Biggest change since '86

The illegal immigrant population is estimated at 8 million to 10 million, mostly
from Mexico and other Latin American countries. Of those, at least 6 million are
believed to be employed, many in hotels, restaurants, landscaping, construction,
domestic work and agriculture.

The guest worker plan that Bush outlined last year would be the most dramatic
change in immigration policy since 1986.

It would give illegal immigrants already in the United States one chance to
register for legal permission to work for up to six years, after which they
would have to return to their home country. Companies would have to prove that
the jobs offered to the foreign workers could not be filled by Americans.

Bush says the plan would improve national security by creating an orderly
immigration process that identifies people working in this country and letting
border enforcement agents focus on finding drug traffickers and possible
terrorists.

But Tancredo and other House conservatives - including Rep. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee - are staunchly opposed to any
measure that would give legal status to immigrants who broke the law by sneaking
into the United States.

"The minute you do that, you have created amnesty," said Tancredo. In addition,
he said, Bush's plan would be unfair to millions of people who are waiting to
enter the country legally.

"We shouldn't tell them they're all suckers," he said.

The House members are trying to crack down on illegal immigration. A
Sensenbrenner bill that would tighten asylum laws and bar states from granting
driver licenses to illegal aliens is passed the House on Thursday.

They claim popular support, citing opinion polls showing that Americans are
increasingly concerned about illegal immigration and want the government to stem
the flow.

And in a nod to their power, backers of Bush's bill shun the word amnesty,
talking instead of "legalization" or "regularization."

The Senate, which has been historically more sympathetic to immigration amnesty
proposals, is considered an easier sell for Bush's guest worker plan. Sen. John
McCain, R-Ariz., a strong Bush ally on the issue, is working on immigration
legislation.

In addition, Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, is planning to reintroduce a measure
similar to Bush's plan.

Green Gard backlog an issue

Immigrant advocates are waiting for actual legislation before declaring their
full support.

"The devil is buried very deep in the detail," said Daryl Buffenstein, a former
general counsel of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Buffenstein said any immigration reform package must be comprehensive and
address the backlog of people waiting years for the "green cards" showing they
are legal residents.

In addition, Munoz said any plan would have to include some path to permanent
legal residency for the temporary workers.

Bush has said that his plan would not amount to "instant citizenship," but has
offered few details of whether temporary workers would have a special track to
permanent residency.

Alcy De Souza, owner of a Washington restaurant called the Grill from Ipanema,
said a guest worker plan makes perfect sense.

"These are jobs that Americans don't want to do and don't have to do," he said.
"They have bigger goals, like going to college. I have never seen an American
ask for a job as a dishwasher."

De Souza is planning to open a second restaurant and expects to hire immigrants
for nearly every position. He said a guest worker program could allow him to
bring specialty cooks from different regions in Brazil to work at his restaurant
for a few years, something not possible under current law.

Mark Krikorian, president of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group
favoring tighter immigration laws, says most guest workers will not want to
return to their home countries.

A guest worker plan "assumes that we can use the labor of people and then get
rid of them. No guest worker program has ever succeeded in doing that anywhere
in the world," he said.

In addition, Krikorian said that Bush is risking a lot by pushing an immigration
plan that is at odds with the majority of the Republican Party.

"The president is emotionally committed to open immigration," he said. "He is
projecting his feelings for his gardener and his cook to all immigrants."

Bush's push for a guest-worker bill is likely to stir the controversy
surrounding other visa programs. As businesses plead to expand them, opponents
charge that Americans are being displaced.

In December, Congress approved 20,000 additional work permits known as H1-B
visas designed to allow skilled specialty workers, such as computer programers
and nurses, to relieve U.S. labor shortages.

It was the first increase since the cap was lowered from 195,000 to 65,000 in
2003 in an effort to favor unemployed U.S. technology workers.

Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America,
said that his group will be aggressively pushing for more visas after laying low
for a few years after the dot-com bust.

"The economy is recovering," he said. "The unemployment rate is still at a very
reasonable level (and) companies are expanding again quite rapidly, so we need
to have access to global talent."

emoscoso@coxnews.com

Open borders

The U.S. illegal immigrant population is estimated at 8 million to 10 million.
Of those, at least 6 million are believed to be employed, many in hotels,
restaurants, landscaping, construction, domestic work and agriculture.

Foreign-born workers gain in numbers, lag in pay
Total foreign-born workers age 16 and over in
the United States
Workers in millions
1994 - 12.8
1997 - 15.6
2000 - 17.4
2003 - 19.7
Median weekly earnings of full-time workers,
2003
In U.S. dollars
Foreign-born                                                             - $489
Native-born                                                              - $643
Illegal immigrants:
Where they come from, where they are
Origin of the estimated 9.3 illegal
immigrants in the United States, 2002
Mexico                                                                      57%
Other Latin America                                                         23%
Asia                                                                        10%
Europe and Canada                                                            5%
Rest of world                                                               5%<
States with the largest share of the illegal
immigrant population, 2002
California                                                                  26%
Texas                                                                       12%
Florida                                                                     10%
New York                                                                     8%
Illinois                                                                     4%
New Jersey                                                                   4%
<NEWLINE>Median weekly earnings of full-time workers, 2003
In U.S. dollars
Foreign-born                                                             - $489
Native-born                                     - $643<NEWLINE><NEWLINE>Illegal
                                                                    immigrants:
Where they come from, where they are<NEWLINE>Origin of the estimated 9.3
illegal immigrants in the United States, 2002
Mexico                                                                      57%
Other Latin America                                                         23%
Asia                                                                        10%
Europe and Canada                                                            5%
Rest of world                                                               5%<
States with the largest share of the illegal immigrant population, 2002
California                                                                  26%
Texas                                                                       12%
Florida                                                                     10%
New York                                                                     8%
Illinois                                                                     4%
New Jersey                                                                   4%

Note: Foreign-born workers include legally admitted immigrants, temporary
residents such as students and seasonal workers, refugees and an estimated 6
million illegal immigrants.

Sources: U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Census Bureau; Urban Institute

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               2 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 13, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD LET ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS EARN RIGHT TO CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., introduced a
comprehensive immigration proposal Thursday that incorporates elements of
President Bush's "guest worker" plan.

The legislation would create two new visa categories of temporary employees who
could work in the United States for up to six years.

Illegal immigrants at the time the legislation goes into effect, along with
their spouses and children, would be allowed to apply for one of the visas -
dubbed H-5B - as long as they show work histories and clear criminal records.

After the six years, the temporary employees could apply for permanent residency
if they clear additional security checks, pay back taxes and meet English
proficiency requirements.

The measure would be the most dramatic change in immigration policy since 1986.
But it is a tough sell in Congress, where some Republicans - especially in the
House - strongly oppose any effort to give legal status to people who broke the
law to enter the U.S.

"This is not, I repeat, is not an amnesty," McCain said at a news conference.

Proponents emphasized that the plan would allow immigrants to earn the right
over several years to become permanent U.S. residents and citizens. It would
also improve border security to allow those who want to work in the U.S. and go
back to do to do so safely, they said.

Immigrant advocate groups and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce praised the bill,
while immigration-control advocates denounced it as a new form of amnesty that
would only increase illegal immigration.

The legislation also would:

* Create a visa document that proponents say would be tamper-proof and include
biometric information.

* Require foreign governments to enter into migration agreements with the U.S.
to help control the flow of their citizens into the U.S.

* Require companies to prove that Americans could not fill the jobs being
offered to the foreign workers.

Reps. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.,
introduced the measure in the House.

McCain said he was optimistic that the White House would work with lawmakers on
the immigration proposal and that there would be hearings on it this year.

"Every day we delay, there is going to be another young Mexican citizen dying in
the desert," McCain said.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 DENNIS COOK/The Associated Press Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz. (left), and Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., discuss their immigration proposal Thursday on Capitol Hill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               3 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH PUSHES FOR GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM AS PART OF IMMIGRATION REFORM PROPOSAL

BYLINE: By KEN HERMAN Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush urged the Senate on Thursday to back a guest-worker program as
part of an immigration reform package, taking on an issue that will be center
stage next week both on Capitol Hill and at his summit in Cancun with outgoing
Mexican President Vicente Fox.

Fox supports the guest-worker concept, which could allow millions of illegal
immigrants, including many from Mexico, to seek permits allowing them to work
north of the Rio Grande while periodically returning home.

The Senate resumes debate on immigration reform next week, and the Mexican
government has purchased full-page ads in major newspapers in Los Angeles,
Washington and New York in advance of the action. In the ads, Mexico commits to
efforts to reduce smuggling and beef up border security.

The House late last year approved an immigration bill without the guest-worker
component that aims to shore up the porous southern border and sanction
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

The Senate Judiciary Committee is to meet Monday - the deadline Majority Leader
Bill Frist set for its bill - to hammer out details on a guest worker agreement
reached before the weeklong recess that also includes some of the House
provisions.

Impatient with the committee's slow progress, Frist, R-Tenn., has threatened to
introduce a bill directly to the floor without the committee's approval. It
ignores a guest-worker program, a concept many Republicans oppose, and focuses
instead on border security and employer sanctions.

Bush said Thursday that "part of enforcing our borders is to have a guest-worker
program that encourages people to register their presence so that we know who
they are, and says to them, if you're doing a job an American won't do, you're
welcome here for a period of time to do that job."

"It's important that we have a serious debate, one that discusses the issues,"
Bush said. "But I urge members of Congress and I urge people who like to comment
on this issue to make sure the rhetoric is in accord with our traditions."

The president, during a White House meeting with representatives of groups in
favor of immigration reform, noted that the people at the table were from
"different backgrounds, different heritages."

"It must be done in a way that doesn't pit one group of people against another,"
Bush said of the debate.

One key senator said that passing any major immigration reform in the Senate
will be difficult.

"No I am not," Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Richard Lugar, R-Ind., said
when asked if he is confident that the Senate will pass a bill.

Bush, who has acknowledged an uphill battle on the issue, categorized the
upcoming fight as "a vital debate for our country."

It is also a vital debate for the country's leader, who is deeply mired in low
approval ratings and a war that requires almost daily reassurances to a
skeptical public.

The immigration debate is fraught with the usual high-level intensity, magnified
by this year's midterm elections and the participation of potential 2008
presidential candidates, including Frist, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y.

kherman@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Richard Lugar (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               4 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE OKS IMMIGRATION OVERHAUL

BYLINE: By MARGARET COKER Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate passed a massive overhaul of immigration laws Thursday and stepped up
preparations for a showdown with the House over its most controversial
centerpiece: giving millions of illegal immigrants the possibility to become
U.S. citizens.

Senators who successfully led a bipartisan coalition to a 62-36 vote on the
bill, with both Florida senators voting yes, pledged to reach out to their House
colleagues to seek a deal. But senior lawmakers were pessimistic that a
compromise piece of legislation could be worked out between the divided chambers
unless President Bush steps in again to help push the House closer to the Senate
measure, which he also supports.

"Dark clouds are forming on the horizon. Influential leaders on the House side
are still gunning to have their version of legislation passed." said Senate
Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.

Amid months of emotional and high-pitched debate, the House and Senate have
passed wildly different immigration bills.

The Senate bill includes measures to increase border security, reduces quotas to
allow 200,000 guest workers each year and creates a mechanism allowing most of
the 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States to become citizens. It
also would give 1.5 million agricultural workers a temporary legal status and
allow them to apply for permanent residency.

The House bill, meanwhile, would make illegal immigrants felons and force their
deportation. It focuses on strengthening border controls and does not touch on
guest workers.

mcoker@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               5 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 28, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH DAY LABOR CRACKDOWN CHALLENGED;
U.S. LAW GOVERNS IMMIGRATION, LAWYERS SAY

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Civil-rights groups are challenging a city police plan to prohibit employers
from recruiting undocumented immigrant day laborers along a city thoroughfare.

The groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, say the state law that
police intend to use is invalid.

"There will be plenty of lawyers out there licking their chops to sue Lake Worth
on behalf of anyone arrested under this law," said Greg Schell, an attorney with
the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth.

Schell said a 1986 federal law barring employers from hiring undocumented
workers preempts local or state governments from enforcing similar laws.

Lake Worth police announced Wednesday that any contractors hiring or recruiting
illegal workers along busy Lake Avenue would be subjected to fines of up to $500
and a criminal charge on a second offense. The city cited a state law adopted in
1977 as authority to issue citations.

Mayor Rodney Romano said Thursday that he will consult with the city's attorney
to determine whether there are problems using the state law.

Romano said the city wants to find a way to reduce traffic hazards caused by the
labor pool activity on Lake Avenue.

Civil-rights attorneys say the threatened enforcement sounds like a city attempt
to drive immigrants away.

"We are going to send them a letter saying this state law has no force or
effect," said Jim Green, a West Palm Beach attorney who handles ACLU cases.

Green said many laws still on the books have been preempted or ruled
unconstitutional.

"There are a lot of Florida laws that no one really pays attention to until you
get an overzealous local government official looking for ways to get rid of
immigrants," Green said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Nina Pruneda said Thursday
that the federal government enforces laws against the hiring of unauthorized
workers.

She said she could not immediately comment on the ability of a local government
to enforce its own laws.

The 1986 federal act says state or local laws imposing civil or criminal
sanctions on employers is preempted.

Maria Elena Hincapie, an immigration-law expert with the National Immigration
Law Center, said she does not know of any court rulings or legislation since
1986 that would allow state or local governments to enforce sanctions.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               6 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 11, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLASHING GOALS HINDER SAFE BORDERS, FAIR RULES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 493 words


The illegal immigrant population in the United States is estimated at 10
million, with at least 6 million employed. The hardest part of immigration
reform is finding a solution to deal with these undocumented workers who already
are here.

President Bush wants to begin by creating a guest-worker program that would
allow them to register and work for up to six years and then return home.
Employers would have to certify that they could not find Americans to fill the
jobs. About 60 percent of all illegal workers come from Mexico, so President
Bush is basing his idea of reform on circular migration, offering a plan under
which Mexicans would come and go on a legal path across the border to supply
U.S. labor needs.

Beyond the White House and a few members of Congress, there is little support
for the plan. Neither side of the debate is happy. Immigration advocates say the
payoff for workers is inadequate and that the government has to offer some sort
of permanent residency - not just a trip back home for people who have dutifully
played by the rules for six years. Proponents of more restrictive immigration
policy brand the plan with the dreaded "A" word: amnesty, which they say rewards
illegal activity and is unfair to people waiting to immigrate legally.

Congressional conservatives not only oppose the president's plan but propose
more restrictive legislation, such as that passed Thursday by the House, that
would set tougher standards for asylum cases and prevent states from issuing
driver licenses to illegal immigrants. Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., is
correct that the porous border and the millions of undocumented residents pose
security problems, but denying illegal workers licenses keeps them in the
shadows and makes no one safer. Perhaps the strongest argument for a
guest-worker program is that it will enhance security by creating a system to
register and identify who's here.

Since the retirement of Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., the state's congressional
delegation has been invisible on immigration matters. Unlikely allies John
McCain, R-Ariz., and Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., are seeking compromise on contentious
details such as guest-worker wage protection and residency status. No plan can
pass without guarantees of tighter borders, but Sen. McCain is properly
skeptical. "We can't secure the road from Baghdad to the airport," he says. "How
the hell are we going to control our border?" President Bush wants to use
security surcharges of $3 to $8 on airline tickets to spend at least $200
million more to hire 210 Border Patrol agents and replace aging helicopters.
That's a reasonable start but hardly a satisfactory answer to Sen. McCain's
question.

Past reform attempts have run aground over ideology. Since 9/11, the political
obstacles have grown. Even with majorities in both houses, Mr. Bush is unlikely
to sign a bill into law. But the dialogue he's started at least has forced the
country to take a closer look at itself.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               7 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 28, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW HOPE IN CONGRESS ON IMMIGRATION ...

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 541 words


Until recently, Congress has been the wrong place to look for clear thinking in
the strident national debate over immigration policy. A new bill introduced last
week with bipartisan support in the House and Senate, however, may have changed
that.

The Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act proposes a reasonable approach to
dealing with the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants already in the country
and would create a framework that allows the federal government more ability to
control borders and improve homeland security. The bill is an expanded version
of the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act (AgJOBS) that has
been stalled despite the support of more than 60 senators. AgJOBS proposed a
guest-worker program for farmworkers that allowed them incremental steps to
legal status and residency. The Secure America bill expands most of the same
principles to cover all undocumented workers.

Unlike President Bush's guest-worker proposal, which offered no specifics,
Congress' plan comes with details and clear standards. The bill would offer
temporary status to workers in this country and to migrating workers who can
prove they have jobs waiting here. Employers would be required to hire Americans
first if possible before turning to foreigners. An electronic registry would
monitor compliance of employees and employers. Immigrants would be subject to
background checks. The federal government would provide them with a six-year
path to residency, but they would have to pay at least $2,000 in fines and back
taxes and also demonstrate proficiency in English. With a system in place to
track immigrant workers, the government could shift more resources to
anti-terrorist efforts.

The bill also puts responsibility for immigration matters where it belongs: in
Washington, not with state and municipal governments. Congress needs to act
because indecision in Washington is leading to impulsive decisions in the
states. This month, the police chief in New Ipswich, N.H. - population 550 -
charged an illegal Mexican working construction with criminal trespass. "What
I'm trying to do is find a manner in which we can get the federal government to
step up to the plate and start helping out here," W. Garrett Chamberlain told
The Boston Globe. "It's basically a situation here where right now if you make
it past the border patrol, you're free and clear. There's no interior
enforcement for illegal immigration in the United States. What I'm hoping to do
is find a way that if the feds aren't going to help us out, then local
enforcement can take care of it."

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., introduced the new
legislation in the Senate, and Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez, D-Ill., Jeff Flake,
R-Ariz., and Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., have sponsored it in the House. The interest of
Arizona's delegation stems from the increasing flow of Mexicans across the
state's border and the rise of the Minutemen and other citizen patrols since the
government tightened enforcement in Texas and California. Last week, Arizona
Gov. Janet Napolitano vetoed a bill that would have given police the power to
enforce federal immigration laws. That is the kind of misguided proposal that
Secure America would help prevent.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               8 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 30, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE IMMIGRATION ANSWER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 447 words


When it comes to immigration reform, people on all sides of the issue can come
to the debate with legitimate arguments.

Vigilante groups along the Southwest border are right that the flow of illegals
into the United States is out of control, and the government has failed to
stanch it. The governors of New Mexico and Arizona were right to declare states
of emergency. New Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff is right when he
pledges to make border control a priority. Intelligence agencies have reason to
worry about terrorists sneaking into the country from Mexico.

U.S. business leaders are right when they argue that the economy is dependent on
a reliable flow of foreign labor that will fill the menial jobs Americans don't
want. Illegal immigrants aren't exaggerating when they say there is virtually a
limitless supply of employers who want them to come and work. Officials in
cities and towns such as Jupiter and Lake Worth are correct when they say that
the federal government's inaction has forced them to deal with problems that
Washington should have prevented.

President Bush and many members of Congress also are right when they argue that
the nation needs to develop a guest-worker plan that would allow immigrants to
cross legally, enter a government-run system and fill vacant jobs. Mr. Bush -
and Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who are backing the
idea in Congress - are correct when they say that an effective guest-worker plan
can enhance national security, cracking down on drug smugglers and helping Mr.
Chertoff's agency monitor who's here. Supporters are right when they argue that
border control and a guest-worker plan will complement each other.

As usual, politics is an obstacle to reform. President Bush hopes to put forth
the many missing details to his guest-worker plan soon, but he has no chance of
satisfying both business leaders and conservative Republicans who are opposed to
residency incentives for immigrants, let alone anything resembling amnesty. The
McCain-Kennedy bill has the right balance of incentives and requirements. It
would offer guest workers three-year visas and the chance for green cards after
six years, but also require them to register, go through background checks, and
pay back taxes and a $2,000 fine. Creating a legal path and a registry would
place immigrant workers into two groups: those who play by the rules and those
who don't. Mr. Chertoff can target his resources on the latter, instead of
trying to sort out the undefined, underground mess that currently exists.

The president and the two senators are close enough that compromise is possible.
That would be right for the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               9 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRY REFORMS, ENFORCEMENT TO EASE IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 291 words


Regarding Dan Moffett's column "Immigration experts, by default" (Aug. 21):
These concerns will be the single most disruptive item faced by business and
government leaders in the next decade, bar none. In principle, the column's
argument cannot be refuted.

In 1986, under President Reagan, the Immigration Reform and Control Act,
commonly know as amnesty, was passed. It contains provisions for sanctions to
those that employ illegal workers. At its inception, sanctions were enforced
vigorously. Today, those provisions are mere paperwork infractions, applied not
nearly enough to make them meaningful. In some respects, employers flaunt their
disregard for the law.

Moreover, local government is equally nonresponsive to opportunities within its
power. One only can wonder why the use of independent contractors instead of
employees goes so unchecked.

Enterprise Florida, the state's economic development agency, has begun to look
at the immigration process and its effects on Florida businesses. Recently, EFI
conducted a panel discussion focusing on the negative impacts of restrictive
immigration policies and their effect on our ability to compete and do business
globally. Although incomplete, the conversation led to concerns about
immigration considerations and how they permeate our social and business
structure. This can be seen in many ways.

The immigration system is at fault. Comprehensive reform is needed to bring
undocumented workers out of the shadows, create a process to fulfill employer
needs, help shut down the black market in human tragedy, ensure border security,
support family reunification and, most of all, facilitate consistent enforcement
efforts.

AL ZUCARO

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Al Zucaro is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              10 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 3, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TO REFORM IMMIGRATION, START BY PLEASING NO ONE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 470 words


In two speeches this week while touring Southwest border states, President Bush
outlined his approach to immigration reform. He correctly said that solutions
must deal with border control and undocumented workers. To do one without the
other would extend failed policy. "By passing comprehensive immigration reform,"
the president said, "we will add to this country's security, to our prosperity
and to justice." Right again.

Probably the best test of any solution is that it must anger people on all sides
of the issue and give none of them everything they seek. Illegal immigrants
crave legal status, but that can't be amnesty or immediate citizenship.
Anti-immigrant groups support wholesale deportation, but who would cut their
lawns, pick their tomatoes or clean their hotel toilets? Employers want a
stable, reliable work force but resist government regulation to protect it.
Immigrant advocates want higher caps and due process to reunite families but
dislike proposals to charge undocumented workers back taxes. Conservative House
Republicans want no guest worker program, which they say rewards lawbreakers.
Liberal Senate Democrats say a guest worker plan is the only way to bring 11
million illegals into a system that enhances security and satisfies labor needs.

President Bush is right that only a comprehensive approach, one that denies all
parties something, can settle what will be next year's most contentious domestic
debate. Mr. Bush's version of a guest worker plan isn't nearly as detailed as
those in Congress, but he would allow foreign workers to get three-year work
visas and possibly three-year extensions. He hopes to sell it by promising
tighter security along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, in part by giving
workers tamper-proof identity cards to help monitor their entry and whereabouts.
The president's proposal, though, is vague about sanctions for employers who
exploit workers. His plan also is short on incentives for undocumented
immigrants to enter the system. Why sign up for a program that offers no payoff
for years of hard work, low wages and compliance other than temporary status?

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., are sponsoring a balanced
bill that still is the best hope for true reform. Their guest worker plan would
require illegals to pay back taxes and a fine, yet allow them the chance at
permanent residency after six years. The bill sets rules to help stop employer
exploitation. Employers who don't comply would get fined; workers who don't
would get deported. The government would get a registry of foreigners in the
country, something it doesn't have now.

Though President Bush's plan falls short, he may have stimulated honest
dialogue. Finding middle ground on immigration will require political will and
compromise. That part hasn't changed.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              11 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RISE UP ACROSS COUNTY, NATION;
5,000 ATTEND RALLY IN LAKE WORTH

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT and GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Emerging from immigrant neighborhoods on the city's west side, about 5,000
people, mostly undocumented workers, took to downtown streets Monday in a rare
open protest of immigration restrictions.

The surprising turnout prompted some advocates to suggest that the workers may
be ready to come out of hiding and publicly campaign for the same rights as
legal residents.

Carrying American flags and placards proclaiming "Legal Status Now," the
marchers chanted slogans as they walked the 10 blocks from city hall to Bryant
Park.

"We are in the streets to demand our rights," said Jose Alcerro, one of the
organizers. "We are here to raise our voice and ask for immigration reform."

The protest was one of dozens across the country Monday intended to send a
message to Congress, which is overhauling the nation's immigration laws. Tens of
thousands rallied in more than 70 cities, including Washington, New York,
Houston and Los Angeles.

In Lake Worth, a sea of flags waved across the park when Hispanic Alliance
member Mabel Datena stood at a microphone and proclaimed in Spanish: "We are
America."

For more than two hours, speakers addressed the marchers in English, Spanish and
Creole, with interludes of marimba and salsa music.

Among them were Lake Worth Mayor Mark Drautz and Blanca Suarez, assistant to
West Palm Beach Mayor Lois Frankel.

Drautz said failure to reform immigration laws is hurting his city and others
with large populations of illegal immigrants. He blamed businesses who want to
continue to draw on a supply of cheap labor.

"It's draining our resources," Drautz said. The immigrants "are willing to
contribute. It's not their fault. . . . The employers and the businesses don't
want to pay taxes on these people."

Suarez said Frankel sent greetings and support, along with a message that any
reform of the nation's immigration laws should be "just and humane."

As in a smaller rally Friday in West Palm Beach, protesters carried American
flags and most signs were in English.

At the front of the procession, Guatemalan Julio Coj carried a clay pot of
burning incense, which he said is a Mayan ritual designed to "clean the path
ahead and remove bad obstacles."

Organizers of the Lake Worth "Day of Action for Immigrant Rights" said 8,000
participated; police estimated the crowd at 3,500 to 4,500.

The Rev. Frank O'Loughlin, a Catholic priest who has assisted migrant
farmworkers for decades, was taken aback by the turnout.

"I'm just absolutely shocked. It's tremendous," O'Loughlin said.

WPSP 1190, a Spanish-language radio station, helped organize the rally and ran
on-air promotions for three weeks.

"It did surprise me the number of people who turned out at 10 a.m. on a
weekday," said Lissette Diaz, the station's general manager. "If it were on a
weekend, we would have had three to four times the crowd."

Among a handful of counter-demonstrators was Gene Putnal, 59, of West Palm
Beach, a security guard who said he served with the Marine Corps in Vietnam.
Putnal walked among the demonstrators carrying a sign that said: "America - U.S.
Needs You In Iraq."

"I hope to have these people understand that there's more to citizenship than a
job mowing lawns," Putnal said.

He said he suspects many illegal immigrants want to earn money but aren't
interested in paying taxes or assimilating into American culture.

Some who participated in the march said the immigration debate in Congress is
awakening the nation's undocumented population.

"Today is the beginning of a new civil rights movement in America," said Bishop
Thomas Masters, a Riviera Beach minister.

In Washington, a House proposal that emphasizes border security would classify
illegal immigrants as felons, while a Senate proposal would allow a majority of
the 11 million illegal immigrants in the U.S. to stay and eventually become
citizens.

A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 63 percent of those surveyed
backed the Senate plan.

John De Leon, a Miami attorney who assists the Mexican and Guatemalan consulates
in Florida, said the march of 500,000 immigrants last week in Los Angeles was a
turning point.

"Every movement in the country started with people with no political voice," De
Leon said. "Like all movements, once you bring people into the light of day,
it's difficult to go back into the darkness. These are people who have been in
the shadows."

- bill_douthat@pbpost.com

- george_bennett@pbpost.com

- Watch an interactive audio slide show on rallies throughout South Florida at
PalmBeachPost.com

Grass-roots push for immigrant rights

From small towns to big cities, immigration rights supporters protested
throughout the country Monday in a National Day of Action billed as a `campaign
for immigrants' dignity.'

Sources: National Capital Immigrant Coalition; Center for Community Change

Voices from the Lake Worth rally

'You couldn't get this many Americans to stand up for their rights.'

ECHO STEINER, co-chair of the county Green Party

'What are they going to do? Kick all the people out that have established lives
here?'

ANDREA LAWRENCE of Lake Worth, who stopped by out of curiosity

'People that work here for a certain amount of time should be given the rights
that everybody else has.'

JANETTE LOZADA, U.S. citizen from Puerto Rico

'This is a country of opportunities for everybody. At least it used to be.'

CARLOS AYALA of Honduras, who has been in the U.S. for 16 years with temporary
protection status

'A lot of Americans don't like to do this kind of work. . . . We're just doing
what they don't want to do.'

JOSUE HERNANDEZ of Guatemala, a landscaper who said he has been in the U.S.
illegally for seven years

'We like America because it's a free country. You have more opportunities here
than in our country.'

SUSANA SILVA of Mexico, a housekeeper who wants to become a citizen

'If you say everybody's got blanket amnesty, I think you're going to have a huge
influx of more people.'

BOB BOGGS of Ohio, who came upon the rally by chance

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C) & GRAPHIC (B&W)
 1. (C) GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Guatemala native Francisco Ramirez
(center) of West Palm Beach and thousands of others demonstrate for immigration
reform Monday at Bryant Park in Lake Worth. 2. (C) BOB SHANLEY/Staff
Photographer Demonstrators made up largely of various Latin nationalities march
through Lake Worth Monday. 'We are in the streets to demand our rights,' an
organizer said. 3. (B&W) TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist Grass-roots push for immigrant
rights From small towns to big cities, immigration rights supporters protested
throughout the country Monday in a National Day of Action billed as a `campaign
for immigrants' dignity.' Sources: National Capital Immigrant Coalition; Center
for Community Change

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              12 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 1, 2005 Friday
                                  WEST EDITION

PATH CLEARED FOR DETAINEE'S RELEASE

BYLINE: By J. CHRISTOPHER HAIN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 412 words


After 112 days in the Krome Detention Center, Paul Flanders may finally be done
serving time for a $390 crime he was never sent to jail for.

A Palm Beach County circuit judge Thursday erased Flanders' two felony
convictions, clearing the way for the British citizen's release from Krome.

Flanders, living legally in the United States since 1990, has been waiting for
an immigration judge to decide whether he should be deported for committing two
crimes of "moral turpitude."

The convictions were dropped Thursday after the Palm Beach County State
Attorney's Office agreed Flanders pleaded no contest in 2000 to one charge in
court, but two convictions were placed on his record. Also, the state found
Flanders wasn't told his plea would affect his immigration status.

Flanders' attorney plans today to file papers with immigration officials to get
him released.

"The question is whether they act with the same expediency with which they
detained me," Flanders said Thursday by telephone from Krome.

Flanders admits to his original crime: charging $390.19 worth of phone calls to
a corporate phone card after he no longer worked for the company. But he said he
thought the company would bill him.

After pleading no contest in 2000 to a charge of "offense against intellectual
property," Flanders paid restitution and served 18 months' probation.

But his record also showed him pleading to a second felony charge of "organized
scheme to defraud" even though it isn't mentioned in a court transcript. The
court transcript also showed Flanders asking about the plea's impact on his
immigration. But that issue was never addressed during the plea, as required by
law. That rendered the plea involuntary, wrote Assistant State Attorney Maureen
Hackett Ackerman.

"He didn't enter the plea voluntarily because he wasn't advised of all the
consequences in the case," said Flanders' attorney, Andrew Pastor.

The state attorney's office could refile charges against Flanders, but spokesman
Mike Edmondson said it won't.

Flanders, who before his arrest lived in Wellington on the weekends and on a
yacht in Fort Pierce during the week, was detained by immigration officials in
November when he returned from Europe.

He was arrested and taken to Krome on Dec. 8, where he was denied bond.

Said Flanders: "Who's going to compensate me for the time that I've lost, and
the business that I've lost by this whole process that could have been dealt
with in a totally different manner?"

chris_hain@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Paul Flanders:  Part-time Wellington resident was detained after returning from
Europe in the fall.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              13 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 17, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GUEST WORKER PROGRAM URGED

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A variety of business interests, from hotels to farms to restaurants, are
lobbying Congress to enact President Bush's proposal for a guest worker program
for immigrants.

Although they worry that the program may bring fees and excessive paperwork,
businesses say they need the workers to deal with labor shortages that will only
get worse in the future.

Shawn McBurney, vice president of governmental affairs at the American Hotel &
Lodging Association, said that resorts and hotels have had to cancel events and
close down rooms at peak seasons because they can't find enough employees to
cook, clean, serve food and perform other services such as landscaping.

"Our folks would love nothing more than to hire American workers," McBurney
said. "There's just none that are available."

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which strongly supports a legalization plan,
estimates that by 2010 the United States will have 168 million jobs and only 158
million Americans to fill them. The situation worsen as Baby Boomers retire in
increasing numbers throughout the decade, the chamber says.

But critics argue that U.S. businesses simply want to exploit cheap labor.

"The idea that America is desperately short of less-skilled workers is absurd on
its face," said Steven A. Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington, which favors tighter immigration laws. "There
are 70 million native-born Americans and legal immigrants already here between
the ages of 18 and 64 who have only a high school education. This is an enormous
pool of labor that if properly paid and treated could satisfy all the labor
demands of American employers."

The guest worker plan that Bush outlined last year would be the most dramatic
change in immigration policy since 1986.

It would give illegal immigrants already in the United States one chance to
register for legal permission to work for up to six years, after which they
would have to return to their home country. Companies would have to prove that
the jobs offered to the foreign workers could not be filled by Americans.

Bush has said that his plan would not amount to "instant citizenship" or
"amnesty," but has offered few details of whether temporary workers would have a
special track to permanent legal residency.

Although business groups say they are cautiously optimistic that a large guest
worker plan could come to fruition this year, Congress has been moving in the
opposite direction by cracking down on illegal immigration.

Led by Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, the House passed a measure this year that would limit the use of
driver licenses by illegal immigrants and tighten refugee asylum laws.

The illegal immigrant population is estimated at 8 million to 11 million, mostly
from Mexico and other Latin American countries. Of those, at least 6 million are
believed to be employed, many in hotels, restaurants, landscaping, construction,
domestic work, meat processing and agriculture.

Current users of the government's small temporary visa program for low-skilled
seasonal workers said that it is expensive and cumbersome but that it has
provided vital help for industries as diverse as crab harvesters on the East
Coast and ski resorts in Colorado.

"It actually saved the crab industry in Maryland," said Aden King, director of
Phillips Food and Seafood Restaurants, which uses 120 workers from Mexico at its
restaurants and 25 at its plant. "Without these, they would have had no one to
work these processing plants. They would be out of business."

Users of the H2-B visas say it takes months to process the paperwork through
various state and federal offices and that they pay the workers' travel and
housing. This federal fiscal year's annual cap of 66,000 visas was reached in
three months.

Brendan Flannigan, government relations specialist with the National Restaurant
Association, said his organization is pushing to increase the number of H2-B
visas and strongly supports a much larger immigration plan for temporary
workers.

"We are encouraging lawmakers to build off of President Bush's outline and build
legislation," Flannigan said. "Immigration is clearly on the front burner now. .
. . We do view that as a very positive development." Business groups said they
would prefer a program with no cap and that would not make them pay an excessive
fee for each worker.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Palm Beach Post file photo Under President Bush's proposal, illegal immigrants
in the U.S. would get one chance to register for permission to work, up to six
years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              14 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FROM ILLEGAL TO LEGAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 393 words


A consensus in favor of immigration reform is already in place for the next
Congress. Of course, it's hard to find two lawmakers who can agree on exactly
what constitutes reform.

President Bush made an admirable attempt at providing the basis for compromise
on the always contentious issue during a recent news conference. He acknowledged
that there are some jobs Americans don't want and that hardworking foreigners
should have a legal path to come and fill those jobs. He said his idea of reform
was the guest-worker plan he proposed last January. The president said he
opposed "automatic citizenship" for the immigrant workers but argued that
legalizing their status would enhance control over U.S. borders. He said his
plan was "a compassionate way to treat people" while satisfying the nation's
labor needs.

Most Democrats in Congress agree with the president, at least in principle. His
strongest opposition is within his own party. Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, tried to derail legislation to
restructure U.S. intelligence agencies by pushing a measure to bar states from
giving driver licenses to illegal immigrants. Rep. Sensenbrenner made his case
by arguing that the 19 hijackers in the 9/11 attacks had more than 60 driver
licenses among them. In fact, according to the 9/11 commission, the hijackers
had a total of 11 licenses, and those became important tools for investigators
in tracing the terrorists' movements and connections.

Opponents of guest-worker programs miss the same point: Bringing foreigners into
government systems enhances security by compiling a registry of information on
who's here and what they're doing. The nation needs to move its population of 10
million illegal immigrants out of the shadows and into the light. Rep.
Sensenbrenner has a do-nothing idea about reform that won't make the country
more secure. The United States never will be able to control traffic across its
southern border by driving migrants underground.

Sixty-three senators support an AgJOBS guest-worker program that creates an
incremental path to legal status for farmworkers. The plan is more detailed and
sensible than the president's, but Mr. Bush deserves credit for his willingness
to take an honest look and bring a credible approach to solving a problem that
most in his party continue to ignore.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              15 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 27, 2005 Thursday
                                  WEST EDITION

HIRING OF DAY LABORERS OFF STREET TARGETED

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


A police plan to issue citations to employers who recruit undocumented workers
from city street corners is raising the ire of immigrant advocates who say local
police have no business enforcing immigration laws.

Lake Worth police officers began handing out warning notices Wednesday to
employers cruising downtown streets looking for day laborers.

The city intends to enforce a little-known state law that prohibits anyone from
knowingly hiring an immigrant who lacks work authorization documents.

"We don't want to start off with arresting people," said Lake Worth police Sgt.
Dan Boland. "We want to give them a fair warning." He said notices were handed
out to roofers, contractors, landscapers and others from Delray Beach to Jupiter
who came looking for workers on Wednesday.

Boland said residents have complained that Lake Avenue has become hazardous
because of employer trucks blocking the roadway and immigrants crowding around
in search of job offers. "We've had some near-misses while we've been out
there," Boland said.

Immigrant groups say the crackdown will only make it harder for immigrants to
find work and drive a wedge between police and the immigrant community.

"It's another troubling sign that the welcome mat has been pulled from under
these communities," said Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center in Miami. Little said it's the first she's heard of a city
applying sanctions on employers of undocumented workers.

Under the state law, an employer could be fined up to $500 on the first offense
and face criminal misdemeanor charges for a second offense. The federal
government in 1986 passed laws against the hiring of undocumented workers, but
its enforcement targets have been large employers, not day-laborer contractors.

"When you have local police acting as the Border Patrol, you have pandemonium,"
said Marisol Zequeira Burke, a Stuart immigration lawyer. "It just makes no
sense."

If police want to solve the traffic problem, they should ticket the drivers and
pedestrians who block the streets, she said.

Lucio Perez Reynozo, director of the Guatemalan-Maya Center on Lucerne Avenue,
says nearby Lake Avenue has been used as a day labor gathering point for years.

"What the police are doing is fining the employer, but hurting the people who
want to work," Perez said. "It sounds like pure harassment."

City officials said the day-labor zone has expanded along Lake Avenue and has
drawn more people. One woman recently complained to officials that she stopped
to shop at a picture framing store and found herself mobbed by Spanish-speaking
immigrants, including some who jumped into her car thinking she came for
workers.

Mayor Rodney Romano said he was not notified in advance about the police
crackdown. After a briefing late Wednesday by the city manager, Romano said he
supports the police action but would like to see a long-term solution.

"From what I can see, what's gotten our police motivated to do this is not a
desire to crack down on illegal immigration but to stop anybody from getting
killed on Lake Avenue," Romano said.

The mayor said he would like to see dormitories built to house some of the
city's 15,000 to 20,000 immigrant laborers as an alternative to the crowded and
high-rent homes they now occupy.

"You can wave the flag and say round them up and get them out of here, but they
are going to come back," Romano said. "It's good for our economy to have them
here, but we need to do it in an orderly fashion."

Lake Worth's decision to fine employers is fraught with problems, immigration
groups say. Among the concerns is that police need to prove the job recruit is
undocumented and unauthorized to work, a sometimes difficult task even for
federal immigration agents.

The crackdown could also foster job discrimination, said Michele Waslin,
director of immigration policy for the National Council of La Raza.

"It would make employers very hesitant to hire anybody who looks like an
immigrant," Waslin said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer The gathering of laborers in Lake Worth
fuels complaints. Some say a plan to cite employers seeking undocumented workers
raises issues of hiring bias and how to verify workers' status.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              16 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 6, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FROM MEXICO TO WORK, OR TO STAY?

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 720 words


President Bush is basing his approach to immigration reform on a guest-worker
program with Mexico that will succeed only if something called "circularity" is
really possible.

Circularity is the idea that migrants are willing to return to their homeland
after a temporary stay here, then perhaps return next year to work again.

Opponents of the president's plan say circularity is a myth and that migrants
always will interpret "temporary" as "permanent." The president's supporters
believe that the right combination of incentives can create a system that allows
the orderly flow of workers back and forth across the border. Most Mexican
migrants, supporters say, want circularity because they want to live their lives
in Mexico.

The Pew Hispanic Center made a brave attempt at exploring circularity during a
six-month survey - the most extensive of its kind - that ended in January.
Researchers asked nearly 5,000 Mexican migrants to complete a 12-page
questionnaire as they were applying for matriculas consular, Mexican ID cards,
at Mexican consulates in seven U.S. cities. Immigration status was not
considered. The key question dealt with the Mexicans' attitudes about returning
home.

By about a 4-to-1 margin (71 percent to 18 percent), respondents said they would
participate in a program that would allow them to work in the United States and
cross the border legally on the condition that they eventually return to Mexico.
That suggested that circularity might actually be possible.

Then the survey asked them how long they expected to remain in the United
States. A majority of respondents chose either "as long as I can" (42 percent)
or "for the rest of my life" (17 percent). Only 27 percent said they expected to
stay for five years or less.

Those results suggest that circularity won't happen. There will be no circle -
just a straight line north.

The responses gave ammunition to both sides of the debate over the president's
plan. Sure, migrants will take the temporary deal. But they also have something
more permanent in mind. So, are Mexican workers who come here migrants with
cultural and social attachments to their homeland, or are they true immigrants
who are looking to build a new life in a new country? We still don't know.

Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, says the answer might have
been lost in translation or skewed by demographics. The 42 percent of the
respondents who selected "as long as I can" actually were choosing the Spanish
phrase "mientras pueda," which can be interpreted as meaning "as long as the
fates allow" or perhaps even "as long as God allows," or "as long as it's right
to be here," according to Mr. Suro. Those interpretations are responses that
appear to suggest a willingness to play by the rules. Certainly, people's
motivation changes over time, especially after they start families.

"The intention to remain very clearly follows a gradient of age and time in the
country," Mr. Suro said. "The older somebody is, the more likely they are to
pick one of the long-term options. And the longer somebody's been here, they're
more likely to pick one of the long-term options."

Geronimo Gutierrez, an official with the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
says circularity has long been a reality between Mexico and Canada. The two
nations have had a guest worker program for 30 years. "Between 98 and 99 percent
of the people that go there every year, a little over 12,000 through this
program," he says, "return every single year to Mexico." This is hardly a
sampling large enough to predict that circularity can happen for the United
States, where about 5 million undocumented Mexicans currently reside. But what
other ideas are there? It took the White House only three months to renege on
its pledge to control the border with increased manpower and enforcement.

In December, President Bush signed the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act, which called for hiring 2,000 Border Patrol agents in each of
the next five years. The 2006 budget he sent to Congress, however, has money to
hire only 210 agents. At that rate, it would take the government 48 years to
guard the border the way it has promised.

Circularity has to be more realistic than that.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              17 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 19, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HONESTY ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 374 words


Few immigration reform initiatives have gathered as much support from so many
traditionally adversarial organizations as the AgJOBS bill that the U.S. Senate
is expected to vote on today.

The Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act, which would allow
foreign farmworkers a legal mechanism for employment, has the backing of labor
unions, growers, farmworker advocates and consumer groups. Fifty Florida groups
support it, including the Florida Catholic Conference, the AFL-CIO, the Migrant
Farmworker Justice Project and the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association. More
than 60 senators have signed on, at least 20 of them Republicans who have broken
ranks with party leadership in a rare show of unity with Democrats on an
immigration issue. Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
ideological counterbalances, are two vocal proponents. Both Florida senators,
Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Mel Martinez, have pledged support.

The broad appeal of AgJOBS stems from its honest recognition that immigrant
labor is essential to agriculture and that the nation needs to bring illegal
workers into a fair system that rewards those who obey the rules with a real
chance at permanent legal status over time. The bill would offer not amnesty but
an incremental path to legitimacy, replacing hypocrisy and denial with
reasonable, specific standards under which immigrants can come, fill jobs, then
return home without fear of government reprisals. Growers would benefit from a
reliable labor supply without worries about penalties for hiring illegals.

Sen. Craig, who has been stymied for two years despite his many allies, pressed
for a vote on AgJOBS as an amendment to an $80 billion spending bill for
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Opponents argue that the plan
should go through hearings and debate, but that risks years more of political
intransigence on a contentious issue that demands attention. Even President Bush
has supported in principle developing guest worker programs, especially to help
control the U.S.-Mexico border, where most illegal migrants enter.

AgJOBS is a reasonable way to begin repairing the nation's dysfunctional
immigration policy. The Senate can start the work today.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              18 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 1, 2005 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LEADERS, DEMONSTRATORS TOUT GUEST WORKER BILL'S BENEFITS

BYLINE: By JOHN PACENTI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


In a small but vocal protest on Friday, more than 40 advocates of immigration
reform called on Congress to pass a guest worker bill pending in Congress and
put an end to brutal work conditions for migrants.

State Rep. Susan Bucher, Lake Worth Mayor Marc Drautz, community leader Bishop
Thomas Masters and congressional candidate Robert Watson spoke in front of the
federal courthouse at the rally organized by the Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now, or ACORN.

The main focus of the rally was to draw attention to pending legislation in
Congress sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, and Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass. The law would create a guest worker program that would provide temporary
legal status for migrant workers.

The program would grant legal status to migrants for at least three years, with
the status renewable if the workers follow certain rules, such as continuing to
work and not breaking the law. Workers would be expected to return to their home
countries after fulfilling their obligations in the United States, but they also
would be allowed to apply for American citizenship.

Supporters say the bill, if passed, also would relieve the backlog of visa
applications and help keep immigrant families together.

Drautz, who has a large migrant population in his city, said he has seen how
gut-wrenching it is for immigrants to cut through the red tape and get green
cards. "We want to change the system and make it a little bit smoother," he
said.

Ana Santiago, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in
Miami, said "there has been significant progress in eliminating" the backlog.

Many at the rally pointed to the case of Wilbert Benoit, a Haitian father of two
young boys who was whisked away from his Lantana home in July. He had been
denied asylum by the U.S. government - the same government that warns Americans
not to travel to Haiti because it is too dangerous.

Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now organizers warned that the
legislation, dubbed the Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act, faces
competition from bills that aim to curtail what little rights illegal migrants
have, such as giving citizenship to their children born in the United States.

Tom Pearce, the head organizer for the Palm Beach chapter of the association,
said there is an economic incentive to keep a second class of illegal immigrants
in the United States to provide cheap labor for farm work and other menial jobs.

He said that in Belle Glade workers live like slaves in prisonlike barracks
without air conditioning. "We all should be ashamed," Pearce said.

Bucher, D-West Palm Beach, said state lawmakers could do their part by allowing
migrants to apply for driver licenses. She said the state's insurance industry
is losing out on numerous potential policies.

Passing such a law, she added, would help national security by documenting
migrants in Florida.

john_pacenti@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer Nestalouna Michel of Boynton Beach chants
slogans in support of rights for illegal aliens and immigrants seeking
protection from deportation, during a rally Friday outside the federal
courthouse in downtown West Palm Beach. Participants included Lake Worth Mayor
Marc Drautz.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              19 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH RECORD A SETBACK FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 420 words


President Bush says that an important part of what he wants to see from Congress
on an immigration reform proposal is tough penalties for employers who do not
follow federal laws on hiring. But it will be difficult for the president to
make people take him seriously because his administration has done so little to
enforce workplace laws against hiring illegal workers.

Auditors from the Government Accountability Office told the Senate Judiciary
Committee last week that enforcement of employers has all but evaporated since
President Bush took office. Between 1999 and 2004, government fines against
companies for violations related to foreign workers declined from 417 to three.
The number of employers prosecuted for illegally hiring immigrants fell from 182
to four. The government cut back enforcement operations by 95 percent, the GAO
found, as the number of federal officials assigned to work-site operations
dropped from 240 to 90. Fines fell from $3.6 million to $212,000.

The administration defends itself with a familiar cover story: After 9/11,
Department of Homeland Security immigration officials have had to concentrate on
terrorism. A more credible analysis is that the White House has too many friends
in certain businesses and too many lobbyists to keep happy to worry about how
employers are treating foreign employees. Had there been no 9/11, the
administration's numbers probably would look just as bad.

Julie L. Myers, head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency has changed its approach and will enforce the workplace laws by
prosecuting executives of the worst companies. Ms. Myers believes that building
criminal cases against high-ranking company officials is a more effective
deterrent than assessing fines that are quickly paid and forgotten. What does
the government intend to do, however, about all the offenders who don't rank
among the worst?

After-the-fact high-profile enforcement won't be enough to run the president's
proposed guest-worker program. Without compliance, it will be little more than
federally approved chaos. Millions of immigrants and their employers will have
to play by the rules to make the system work, and it will be the government's
responsibility to make sure that they do.

News of the administration's non-enforcement record will help those in Congress
who want enforcement-only illegal immigration legislation and have stalled the
debate. That will hurt the cause of "reform," but President Bush should have
thought of that about 5 1/2 years ago.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              20 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REFORM COMES UP SHORT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 698 words


This was the year the country was supposed to confront its immigration problems
head-on and finally take bold steps to secure the borders and do something about
the 12 million people who are living here illegally.

But election politics scuttled hopes for reform in Congress, and President
Bush's declining popularity and troubles in Iraq ensured that no leadership
would come from the White House. Mr. Bush's support for a guest worker program
all but disappeared as his poll numbers fell. In the absence of real solutions,
the country was left with symbolic fixes. And the symbols weren't pretty.

The president sent some National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border. Federal
immigration agents conducted sweeps of job sites with illegal workers and
deported hundreds of them. And, of course, there was the fence. Before breaking
for election campaigning, Congress approved building 700 miles of fence along
the Mexican border.

Fences generally go beyond symbolism and have practical functions. But what
Congress signed off on is really a symbolic wall intended to allay the nation's
frustration with its dysfunctional policy, at least for the time being.

It's hard to take a 700-mile fence seriously when it's supposed to cover 2,000
miles. It's even harder when Congress sets aside only enough money, $1.2
billion, to build about half of it -- maybe 370 miles.

But that might even be a stretch. The fence bill gives the Department of
Homeland Security wide discretion in deciding how the $1.2 billion should be
spent. If he chooses, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, who is known
to favor the high-tech approach, can use the money to create a "virtual fence"
with high-tech sensors and surveillance devices. In fact, he can spend the money
on most anything associated with border control -- roads, signs, buildings, etc.

Who will get the non-virtual fence remains an open question. Governors,
congressmen and even mayors from the border states have been bickering for weeks
over what they consider their fair share of the barrier. To get the bill through
the Senate, Republican leaders put in language that requires Homeland Security
to negotiate with affected parties to determine where sections of fence will go.
Even Indian tribes must be consulted.

So, the much-publicized 700-mile fence to protect the 2,000-mile border appears
likely to become a few hundred miles of cameras, lights and heat sensors
punctuated by the occasional segment of metal and wire -- a structure that, from
a distance, looks like a hockey player's smile.

Mr. Chertoff also has environmental issues with which to contend. Texas
environmentalists worry that the fence could destroy habitats for endangered
species such as the ocelot and jaguarundi. The North American Butterfly
Association worries that the fence will hurt its park. Bird watchers worry that
the fence will drive rare species from the area. Wildlife will be fenced off
from watering holes and migration paths.

Congress didn't get around to considering the fate of jaguarundis and
butterflies when it decided to get tough along the border. That will be up to
Mr. Chertoff.

He will also have to deal with the Mexican government, which sent a diplomatic
note to the State Department last week saying the fence will hurt relations
between the two nations. It's the idea of the fence that will hurt relations
with Mexico, of course, not the non-virtual fence itself, because even the
Mexicans have figured out that it never will become real.

"There is no money to build it, so it won't be built," said Ruben Aguilar,
spokesman for President Vicente Fox. "Even though the wall was approved, there
is no funding. The wall will be useless and unworkable."

Members of Congress, Republicans in particular, are on the campaign trail
telling constituents about a 700-mile fence that will make the nation more
secure and stem the flow of illegal immigrants. It will stand, in places yet to
be determined, as a symbol of the government's resolve to control its borders.

As virtual achievements go, it ranks among the greatest in United States
history.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

END BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP FOR MIGRANTS, GROUPS URGE

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Groups upset about illegal immigration and some Republican lawmakers say that
any reform - such as the one proposed by President Bush - must include a
provision to end birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants
and temporary workers.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who heads a 90-member caucus pushing to tighten
immigration laws, has introduced his proposal to deny citizenship to U.S.-born
children of temporary immigrant workers.

He said the provision was vital because immigrants do not want to leave after
their visas expire if their children are U.S. citizens.

In addition, Rep. Nathan Deal, R-Ga., has proposed a measure that would amend
the Immigration and Nationality Act to limit automatic citizenship at birth to
children of U.S. citizens and lawful residents.

And Rep. Mark Foley, R-Jupiter, introduced a constitutional amendment that would
eliminate birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants.

Most scholars believe a constitutional amendment is necessary to change the
birthright citizenship provision, but some disagree because of different
interpretations of the 14th Amendment. Changing the Constitution requires
ratification by three-fourths of the states.

Any legislative statutes passed by Congress that eliminate birthright
citizenship would be immediately challenged in the courts, experts said.

The House Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Claims will hold a
hearing today on birthright citizenship, dual citizenship and their impact on
national sovereignty. Several legal experts are scheduled to testify.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that lobbies to reduce illegal immigration, said the lure of U.S.
citizenship for children is a "huge incentive" for people to come to the United
States illegally because it opens the door to many social benefits.

Once grown, the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants can petition for their
parents' residency, and family reunification is often cited as a reason for
amnesty proposals.

"We're bestowing citizenship without consent, without our consent . . . to
people who have not subjected themselves to U.S. jurisdiction," said Stein.
"We're allowing other countries to manipulate our laws."

But immigrant advocates and Hispanic groups counter that employment is the major
motivator for illegal immigration and that support for ending birthright
citizenship is simply a sign of anti-immigrant sentiment.

"The only thing that this kind of change gets you . . . is stateless people,
which doesn't solve any problem," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy
at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization.

Under the proposals, U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants or temporary
workers would have unclear citizenship and become an official second class
without the same protections as everyone else born and raised in the United
States, Munoz said.

"This is not a matter of immigration policy, this is a matter of changing who we
are fundamentally as a nation," she added.

The United States grants citizenship to every child born in the United States
with the exception of children of foreign diplomats, who keep the citizenship of
their home country.

One other exception, which would deny citizenship to the children of members of
an occupying force, has never been an issue in the United States, said Peter
Spiro, an international law professor at the University of Georgia School of Law
who is testifying at today's hearing.

Spiro said proposals to change the birthright citizenship have been around since
the mid-1990s and have never come to fruition.

"It's part now of our entrenched constitutional tradition that all children born
in the territory of the United States are deemed citizens at birth," he said.

The tradition dates to English common law, and the right has been ratified
through several court decisions, he said.

In addition, the 14th Amendment states that "all persons born or naturalized in
the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States."

Colorado Rep. Tancredo and others contend that the amendment does not apply to
children of illegal immigrants because they are not "subject to the
jurisdiction" of the United States.

Spiro said the amendment's wording is ambiguous but that the courts would likely
strike down any legislation that tried to change the granting of birthright
citizenship.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Cecilia Munoz (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              22 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION HEARINGS HELD CROSS COUNTRY

BYLINE: By BOB KEEFE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Congressional leaders took their incendiary debate over border security and
immigration reform on the road Wednesday, hearing both sides of the issue from
both sides of the country.

Outside a rural U.S. Border Patrol station near the Mexican border in Southern
California where a House subcommittee was holding its field hearing, hundreds of
demonstrators rallied with American flags and signs reading "deport all
illegals." A lesser number called for more compassionate immigration reform.

Inside, law enforcement officials pleaded for more money, technology and
personnel to get a better handle on border security.

"It is out of control - we do not have control over the border," Rick Flores,
sheriff of Webb County, Texas, said after describing a recent two-hour gun
battle with drug runners near the border town of Laredo.

Calling his county a "war zone" that was "ripe for a terrorist pipeline," Flores
told the lawmakers, "We need your help."

In Philadelphia, meanwhile, Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York told a separate
field hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee that illegal immigrants are
economically indispensable.

"Although they broke the law by illegally crossing our borders," he said, "our
city's economy would be a shell of itself had they not, and it would collapse if
they were deported," Bloomberg said. "The same holds true for the nation."

Wednesday's hearings are the first of several planned by Congress as it tries to
hammer out a compromise on the complex and intertwined issues. On Friday, House
members hold another session in Laredo.

The two chambers have crafted sharply different approaches.

The House has approved a bill that calls for tougher immigration enforcement,
the construction of hundreds of miles of fencing along the border with Mexico
and no provisions for illegal immigrants already in the country.

The Senate has passed a bill that would include a "guest worker" program for
illegal residents and provisions to make it easier for immigrants to become U.S.
citizens.

President Bush favors the Senate plan, although he is under growing pressure by
some leading Republicans to reconsider his opposition to the tougher House
measure.

On Wednesday, Bush visited a Dunkin' Donuts store in Alexandria, Va., to
publicize his stance.

He said the store, owned and managed by legal immigrants from Iran and El
Salvador, uses a voluntary government program called "Basic Pilot" to ensure it
doesn't hire illegal immigrants.

While commending the owners for using the program, Bush reiterated his
opposition to any mass deportations.

"We're not going to be able to deport people who've been here working hard and
raising their families," he said.

Though congressional leaders have said they want a comprehensive immigration and
border security bill soon, Wednesday's hearings illustrated how far apart the
lawmakers still are.

Rep. Brad Sherman, D-Calif., used the San Diego session to chastise the Bush
administration and Republicans who back the House measure.

"Six years of total control in Washington, and an uncontrolled border," said
Sherman. He called the hearing a Republican "dog and pony show" with "really
ugly dogs and really mangy ponies."

In Philadelphia, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said proponents of the House
measure should stop trying to "demonize the 12 million undocumented immigrants"
already in the country, and indicated that his allies in the Senate aren't
willing to accept a bill that focuses only on enforcement.

"We are strongly committed to pointing out that unfortunate mistake in the House
legislation," Kennedy said.

Other officials defended the House's tough approach.

"As a former judge in Texas . . . I believe in the word of the law, and the law
is that it is illegal to come into the United States without permission," Rep.
Ted Poe, R-Texas, said in San Diego. "That includes everybody."

Mayor Louis J. Barletta of Hazelton, Pa., told the Senate hearing, "We must dig
deep into the city's accounts to pay for illegal immigrants, while illegal
immigrants do not pay their fair share of taxes, either to the city, the county,
the state or the country."

The House members were warned by police officials and others, however, that
simple solutions might not address the complex problem.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca said that 26 percent of all inmates in his
jails are illegal immigrants and that illegals are behind much of his county's
notorious gang activity.

"The circumstances are severe in L.A. County," he said.

Yet Baca added that he also realizes the economic importance of illegal
immigrant workers, and said the nation couldn't build enough jails to
incarcerate all the illegal immigrants or their employers.

San Diego County Sheriff Bill Kolender testified that Congress needs to do more
than build fences and deport illegal immigrants.

"This is never going to be solved unless we develop a (better) relationship with
Mexico," he said, sparking a chorus of boos from many of the approximately 100
public attendees.

Cox Washington Bureau reporters Kylene Kiang and Ken Herman contributed to this
story, which also includes information from the Associated Press.

- bkeefe@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 DENIS POROY/The Associated Press Esteban Pimentel (right) and his wife, Juana,
protest at the front entrance to the U.S. Border Patrol Station in Imperial
Beach, Calif.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              23 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COMPETING INTERESTS MAY DOOM IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As Congress returns this week from a monthlong recess, pressure is building for
lawmakers to act on immigration, but the chances of passing a major bill are
slim.

"We're in Hail Mary territory," said Tamar Jacoby, an immigration expert with
the conservative Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. "It's kind of a long
shot but I'm not prepared to say it's totally dead."

Legislation to tighten border security and change the nation's immigration laws
has been stalled for months because lawmakers can't agree on competing House and
Senate bills.

The main sticking point - whether to offer a path to legal residency to most of
the 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States - has galvanized groups
on both sides.

Immigrants and their supporters are planning marches this week in Phoenix, Los
Angeles and Washington, D.C., to push for legalization.

Organizers say they are expecting hundreds of thousands of people from 17 states
to converge on the National Mall in Washington on Thursday, including at least
50 buses from the New York City area.

Most immigrant groups support a Senate-passed bill that includes a large
temporary worker program and would give many current illegal immigrants a chance
at permanent residency and citizenship.

Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, a
consortium organizing the Washington march, said it is designed to make Congress
understand that the immigrant community is not happy with how lawmakers are
handling the debate.

"We - just like the rest of the American people - want real solutions, not just
lip service," he said.

Critics of illegal immigration are calling for stronger security measures and a
tough crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants. The issue is becoming
a national theme heading into November's midterm elections, with some
Republicans attacking opponents for being soft on illegal immigrants.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who heads a 104-member caucus pushing for stronger
immigration controls, said it is premature to discuss a guest-worker program
when the borders are not secure.

"As long as illegal aliens can continue to simply cross the border and get
hired, that will be the path of least resistance," he said.

The House took a hard line against illegal immigration, passing a bill in
December that is heavy on enforcement without any temporary worker program or
path to residency for illegal immigrants. The bill would make illegal presence
in the U.S. a criminal felony instead of a civil offense.

Hispanic groups and advocates for immigrants say the measure broadens the
definition of human smuggling and harboring so much that it would subject
religious and humanitarian groups that help immigrants with basic needs to
criminal prosecution. The legislation sparked massive protests in many U.S.
cities earlier this year, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their
supporters taking to the streets.

The Bush administration, which backs a temporary worker plan that includes
illegal immigrants, has dispatched high-level officials to push for
comprehensive legislation, including Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez.

emoscoso@coxnews.com<;news.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 13, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DAY LABOR CENTER IDEA DISCOURAGED

BYLINE: By LIBBY WELLS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


A Washington-based organization that advocates immigration reform has entered
the debate over whether the town should establish a day labor center to keep
hordes of mostly illegal immigrants from swarming Center Street each morning to
find work.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, known as FAIR and considered by
some to have a radical agenda, has written the town to oppose a proposed
"neighborhood resource center" where immigrants would apply for jobs and perhaps
receive other services such as English lessons, an agency employee said.

A copy of the letter from FAIR was not available Thursday or Friday because town
hall was closed for Veterans Day. But Jim Staudenraus, field director for the
nonprofit, nonpartisan agency, said the organization's position is that a labor
center would attract more illegal immigrants to Jupiter and expose the town to
legal liability.

Using tax dollars to facilitate the pairing of illegal immigrants, who have
skirted criminal background checks, with contractors who avoid paying taxes and
other employer costs by hiring cheap, cash labor is asking for trouble,
Staudenraus said.

"What happens when an unscrupulous contractor hires someone at the Jupiter
facility and then takes them to a hazardous work site where they die on the job?
The town is going to get sued for wrongful death," Staudenraus said.

"It's rewarding criminal behavior, on both sides. No municipality would treat
other illegal activities with this response. Would the town, at taxpayers'
expense, build a house of prostitution to get johns and hookers off the
streets?"

Some residents of the town's older neighborhoods say the influx of illegal
Guatemalan and Mexican immigrants living in crowded, rundown housing is wrecking
their property values and quality of life.

Each morning, Center Street becomes a labor market, with contractors cruising
the street in trucks, looking for workers among hundreds of Latin men waiting
outside.

Longtime residents complain of noise, trash, public urination and drunkenness
and an environment that threatens their safety. "We've had fights and stabbings
and the problem is getting worse and worse," said John Slattery, who lives off
Center Street in Jupiter Plantation. "You hardly ever see residents out walking
or jogging anymore. And what really irks me is they are working illegally."

The town, which has researched municipalities in Texas and California that have
established labor centers for immigrant populations, budgeted $200,000 this year
to rent or buy a location for the facility.

The idea is to have local nonprofit agencies, such as Corn Maya, an advocacy
group for Guatemalan families, and Catholic Charities, run the center.

But the council is divided on the issue. Councilwoman Kathleen Kozinski, an
attorney, is against it if it's going to help illegal immigrants find work.

"I'm not opposed if its purpose and use is going to be legal and to help people
with Social Security numbers," Kozinski said. "I'm adamantly opposed to the town
buying a building for the purposes of fostering illegal activities."

Councilman Jim Kuretski, however, says a labor center in an industrial area will
help residential neighborhoods that are most affected by the problem.

"We've done nothing for years," he said. "We're at the point we need to move
ahead and do something to get the labor hiring process out of the residential
neighborhoods. I think this center will do a wonderful job."

Tim Steigenga, a professor of political science and Latin American studies at
Florida Atlantic University who represents Corn Maya, said FAIR's argument about
the town's legal liability is unfounded.

"Show me a single successful lawsuit against a labor center," he said. "If there
was any liability, it would be upon those nonprofits.

"Labor centers have worked elsewhere. We can't wave a magic wand and make
Jupiter's immigrants disappear. At some point, our federal government has to do
something about immigration. The most likely pass to legalization is to be able
to show you have been working here."

libby_wells@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              25 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH DAY LABOR SQUEEZE ON HOLD

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


A planned police crackdown on employers who hire undocumented immigrants for day
labor is on hold after protests from civil rights groups.

Questions about the legality of a city enforcing an immigration law arose
immediately after city police last week began passing out fliers warning
employers of possible civil and criminal penalties.

Immigration lawyers say the state statute police want to use is invalidated by a
1986 federal law that imposes penalties on employers who knowingly hire
undocumented workers.

"We passed out advisories only one day, and we haven't enforced it at all,"
Police Chief William Smith said Wednesday.

The police chief said the city will study legal opinions and consult with the
federal immigration enforcement agency for advice on how to proceed.

"If the statute is superceded, obviously we are not going to enforce it," Smith
said.

Civil rights groups howled after police last week began handing out warning
fliers to employers pulling up along Lake Avenue to hire day laborers.

A letter signed by attorneys for the American Civil Liberties Union and Florida
Rural Legal Services blasted the operation as harassment of immigrants and an
illegal move to enforce employer sanctions.

"It's generated more of new interest and more reaction than we anticipated,"
Smith said.

The city has not responded to the ACLU's letter, said one of the signers,
attorney JoNel Newman with Florida Rural Legal Services.

"We are certainly pleased at this point they have ceased the practice," Newman
said. "We'd like more clarity about what they plan to do in the future."

City officials said their aim is to reduce traffic hazards caused by the labor
pickup area on Lake Avenue.

One city commissioner suggested a community-wide workshop to discuss
alternatives to the Lake Avenue zone.

"We are not trying to throw these people out of the city but to make it safer
for them," said Commissioner Retha Lowe. She suggested several areas, including
a street near the downtown shuffleboard court, but said she's looking for a more
suitable location.

"Let's put all the solutions on the table," Lowe said.

- bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              26 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 14, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARCH ON CAPITAL WILL BE WARNING ON IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 190 words


A nation without controlled borders is not a nation ("Home security starts with
secure border," March 21 Ruben Navarrette Jr. column).

The safety, health and welfare of Americans should surpass the needs, comforts
and convenience of illegal foreigners.

The president and Congress have refused to reform immigration and protect the
rights of Americans first and foremost, and Americans are angry. Americans are
very aware of the docile manner in which the government consistently has faced
to this problem. Thus, an American resistance movement grows daily. I have seen
statistics indicating that 80 percent of the American public wants immediate
immigration reform.

The media have been silent specifically about a very important event in
Washington on April 23-27. It will be a march called "Hold Their Feet To The
Fire," meaning make your representatives know that Americans are tired of
selling out to cheap labor and corruption and want immediate anti-immigration
legislation now. Thousands of Americans will be marching and visiting their
representatives to get the message out - stop this illegal alien invasion.

ALICE WARREN

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              27 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 18, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRY SOME RATIONAL IMMIGRATION REFORMS

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 624 words


If you pay attention to the spew on immigration coming from conservative talk
radio and Web logs, you easily can get the impression that most of the 9/11
hijackers came from Mexico.

Verbal broadsides against Muslim terrorists mix easily with derisive comments
about Latinos who sneak across the border seeking work. The growing backlash
against immigrants doesn't distinguish between jihadists and would-be janitors.

So it doesn't matter much that House Republicans, who passed a bill last month
that effectively bans drivers' licenses for illegal workers, keep saying their
legislation is not anti-immigrant. But since the legislation provisions for
giving immigrants the opportunity to work legally, it seems to be aimed not at
protecting our borders but preventing immigration.

The backlash is getting ugly. In Arizona, dozens of untrained citizens are
raising the level of risk in an already dangerous area by taking it upon
themselves to patrol the border. CNN's Lou Dobbs, meanwhile, has turned his
popular TV show into a forum for nativists bashing illegal immigration.

The growing resentment is not restricted to the Southwest, long a magnet for
Latinos migrating in search of economic opportunity. It is also roiling the Deep
South and Midwest, which have seen their immigrant populations explode in the
past decade. In suburban Atlanta, residents are increasingly blaming immigrants
- legal and illegal - for crime and substandard schools.

It's time for President Bush to push for immigration reform. After all, White
House Chief of Staff Andrew Card has called immigration a bigger immediate
problem than Social Security's future, according to The Washington Post.

For decades, the United States has pursued a de facto policy of exploiting and
abusing immigrant labor, mostly from Mexico. It is hypocritical and un-American.
While many of us (especially the middle class and wealthy) enjoy the benefits of
low-cost labor, we have been unwilling to pass laws that make it easier for
those laborers to get green cards or guest-worker visas. (If they achieved legal
status, they might be unwilling to do unpleasant work for substandard wages.)

Nor have elected officials been willing to pursue the businesses that hire
illegal labor. Indeed, one of the reasons for our bipolar policy is that
business interests pressure politicians to look the other way so they can
continue to exploit cheap labor.

President Bush's instincts on immigration tend to be progressive and
forward-thinking. Last Thursday, he told the American Society of Newspaper
Editors that he supports a policy that would put together "willing workers" and
"willing employers." He also acknowledged that the backlash against immigration
"encourages nativism and behavior that doesn't represent the way America should
view the world."

But the president hasn't pulled out all the stops to get immigration reform - as
he did to invade Iraq or to cut taxes. He ought to use his bully pulpit to
remind Americans of the benefits of immigration. As just one example, the U.S.,
unlike some European countries, has staved off the crisis of an aging work force
by importing young workers from south of the border.

Mr. Bush also should insist on harsh penalties, including jail time, for
business executives who hire illegal workers. If business owners weren't so
eager to hire undocumented workers, the workers would be less likely to run the
risk of crossing the border illegally.

After his reelection, Mr. Bush proclaimed that he had "earned capital in the
campaign, political capital, and now I intend to spend it." One of his best
investments would be a rational immigration policy.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor of The Atlanta Constitution. Her e-mail
address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              28 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE LAWBREAKERS AMERICA NEEDS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 694 words


Because the United States has an immigration policy that is inherently
hypocritical, lawmakers routinely find themselves in conflicted positions trying
to deal with the problems that about 10 million undocumented residents present.

It's hard to believe that it was only a year ago that Gov. Bush and a number of
legislators from both parties were supporting a bill that would allow illegal
immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

The bill's proponents argued that it would make the roads safer, reduce the
number of uninsured drivers and enhance security by creating a registry that
identifies illegal immigrants and records where they live. The information could
be used to track down terrorists, supporters said.

The bill never made it out of committee. The reason? Security concerns.
Opponents argued that driver's licenses could help terrorists carry out attacks.
Nine of the 19 hijackers on 9/11 had Florida driver's licenses, opponents said.

Who's right? As is so often the case with immigration matters, both sides are.

There is no doubt that driver's licenses provide a useful registry for law
enforcement. Those nine licenses were vital in retracing the movements of the
9/11 terrorists. The licenses also were useful to the terrorists, of course.

But the real problem was fraudulent passports and visas, which made obtaining
the driver licenses possible. The 9/11 commission found that as many as 13 of
the hijackers had entered the United States with altered passports and that many
of the visa applications had been filled out improperly. In several cases, the
hijackers gave information that was false. Three of the hijackers were allowed
into the country even though they were listed in the government's
counterterrorist databases.

Had passport and visa security been adequately tight, the attacks might have
been prevented. If the hijackers had been denied driver's licenses, the attacks
probably would have been carried out as they were.

The issue of whether illegal immigrants should have driver's licenses has been
rekindled, this time in Congress. The Real ID Act, sponsored by Rep. James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., would require motor-vehicle employees in all states to
verify the immigration status of driver's license applicants. It will turn a
qualified state employee who knows a lot about motor vehicle laws into an
unqualified Border Patrol agent who knows nothing about immigration rules.

It is the latest example of the federal government abdicating its responsibility
to enforce immigration laws and leaving it for state and local officials. It's a
point of irony that conservatives would choose to interfere with each state's
right to decide who's fit to drive. The idea that the states should be ordered
to verify immigration status is another ridiculous Washington ruse. The states
have neither the resources nor the expertise to perform such a task. And, of
course, the feds aren't willing to give them any. What's one more unfunded
mandate, anyway?

The Real ID Act appears headed for passage, and this time a Bush is lined up on
the winning side. The president says he will sign it, apparently abandoning his
promise to inject common sense into immigration policy.

The net effect of the law will be to ostracize further a huge population of
essential workers, most of them Mexicans, from participation in a legitimate
system. The law will reinforce the nation's hypocritical message to illegal
immigrants: We need you to stay here and do our dirty work, yet we're also going
to consider you lawbreakers for staying.

Denying undocumented workers driver's licenses won't make the country safer. On
the contrary, it will force more of them to drive without insurance and keep
more of them in the shadows of anonymity.

The French historian Alexis de Tocqueville, who wrote about democracy in America
170 years ago, said that people are always more willing to accept a simple lie
than a complex truth.

That is the underlying problem with the immigration debate today. The politics
of the simple lie continues to overwhelm the reason of the complex truth.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              29 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 24, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT CHANGES FOCUS

BYLINE: By JOHN PACENTI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 823 words


A few years ago, swapping out a passport photo to enter the United States in
South Florida was as commonplace as long lines at U.S. Customs checkpoints.

But then came the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and, as a result, a sea
change in the way illegal immigration is prosecuted. Passport and visa fraud has
became a top priority, and it's reflected in new statistics released Tuesday.

Advocates for those seeking asylum say it's their clients - not the terrorists -
who are the ones feeling the sting.

In 2004, visa and passport crimes constituted nearly half of all immigration
convictions - 48.3 percent - in the Southern District of Florida, according to
statistics compiled by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse in New
York, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization out of Syracuse University that
compiles government data.

In 2000, those same identity crimes amounted to 18.6 percent of immigration
convictions. Convictions for passport fraud even topped those for reentry of
removed illegal immigrants.

"Immigration has become a national security concern," said Assistant U.S.
Attorney Alicia Valle, spokeswoman for Alex Acosta, the U.S. attorney in Miami.
"Post 9/11, there has been an increase in certain immigration prosecutions
because of the potential terrorist threat."

False documents are often the only means of escape for those whose lives are in
danger in their homeland, said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

"But in this post-9/11 world, our government is so concerned about getting those
prosecution numbers up and convincing the American public that they are on the
job that they are losing sight of what is really important: targeting people who
truly intend us harm," Little said.

Cecilia Campoverde, a Florida Atlantic University professor who teaches classes
on social work, said one reason reentry prosecutions have gone down is that
local police now deport migrants for petty crimes, such as driving without a
license or public drunkenness. "They are not getting due process," Campoverde
said. "What we advise our immigrant friends is that you better drive very very
carefully."

Nationwide, according to TRAC, immigration prosecutions now represent the single
largest group of all federal prosecutions - about one-third. The Department of
Homeland Security recommended the prosecution of 65 percent more immigration
cases in 2004 than it did the previous year. Homeland Security now prosecutes
more crimes than the Drug Enforcement Agency and the FBI.

But the statistics compiled by TRAC show only seven of 37,765 prosecutions
recommended by Homeland Security were classified as terrorism-related.

The focus on passport crimes has resulted in less prison or jail time for
immigration infractions in South Florida because it is a lesser offense than
illegal reentry. In South Florida, the median sentence for an immigration
conviction dropped from two years in 2000 to two months in 2004.

Marcos Jimenez, former U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Florida, said
there was a concerted effort in Miami to close down the airport to passport
fraud after Sept. 11, 2001. "In the past, it was pretty much open season for
people to illegally enter the country with passport fraud," said Jimenez, who is
now in private practice. "I think our message was that the Miami International
Airport was closed to this type of fraud."

Jimenez said would-be asylum seekers often hurt their cause because they tried
to pass off their fake documents. It was only after they were caught that such
individuals would claim asylum, he said.

Different violations stressed after 9/11

New statistics show that visa and passport crimes constituted 48.3 percent, or
nearly half, of all immigration convictions in South Florida last year. That's
up from 18.6 percent in 2000.
South Florida          2000  2004
Reentry of
removed immigrants    59.3% 22.0%
Bringing in/
harboring immigrants  11.0% 15.4%
Fraud or misuse of
passport/visa/permits  9.7% 17.0%
Forgery or false use
of passport            4.8% 26.4%
False impersonation
of a U.S. citizen      3.4%  1.1%
United States          2000  2004
Reentry of
removed immigrants    46.2% 29.6%
Improper entry
by immigrants         23.9% 55.2%
Bringing in/
harboring immigrants  16.6%  8.1%
Fraud or misuse of
passport/visa/permits  2.9%  1.2%
False impersonation
of a U.S. citizen      1.0%  2.6%
Reentry of
removed immigrants    59.3% 22.0%
Bringing in/
harboring immigrants  11.0% 15.4%
Fraud or misuse of
passport/visa/permits  9.7% 17.0%
Forgery or false use
of passport            4.8% 26.4%
False impersonation
of a U.S. citizen      3.4%  1.1%
United States          2000  2004
Reentry of
removed immigrants    46.2% 29.6%
Improper entry
by immigrants         23.9% 55.2%
Bringing in/
harboring immigrants  16.6%  8.1%
Fraud or misuse of
passport/visa/permits  2.9%  1.2%
False impersonation
of a U.S. citizen      1.0%  2.6%

Sources: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Syracuse University

Staff writer Christine Stapleton and staff researchers Melanie Mena and Michelle
Quigley contributed to this story.

john_pacenti@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              30 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RESTRICTIONS GET TOUGH WITH WRONG IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 499 words


After 9/11, the federal government enacted new security measures to reduce the
flow of illegal immigrants into the country. But recent evidence suggests that
instead of stopping illegal entry, the changes have made legal immigration more
difficult for people who try to play by the rules.

A study by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group, found that
more immigration is illegal than legal now, in part because of government
restrictions. Researchers also discovered that - contrary to widely held
perceptions - migration to the United States actually has declined the past four
years. Since 2000, when immigration peaked at about 1.5 million, the number of
legal immigrants has decreased from a yearly average of 647,000 to 452,000, and
the number of illegal entries has fallen from 662,000 to 488,000.

The proportion of legal immigrants has gone from more than half to about 40
percent. The rule changes after 9/11 reduced visa and refugee programs. The more
rigorous checks on visa requests have delayed or turned back immigrants that the
country should have welcomed - students and business people, in particular.

Gov. Bush has complained that the restrictive policies hurt Florida's travel
industry and international commerce. He says the government has to do a better
job of balancing security demands with business needs. Federal restrictions
aimed at terrorists and illegal immigrants are hitting snowbirds from Finland
and investors from Brazil. Gov. Bush is right that it's time to make
adjustments.

Illegal immigration is expanding beyond the traditional gateway states of
Florida, Texas, New York and California. The report found increasing numbers of
migrants heading for "new settlement states" such as Georgia, North Carolina,
Iowa, Delaware and Utah.

The trend underscores the need for a federal solution to a national problem. The
new settlements are learning what the old settlements have known for years: With
no help coming from Washington, each state is left fending for itself, with
neither the resources nor the authority to exercise real control.

The Pew study also confirmed the futility of attempts to tighten the border with
Mexico. Close to 85 percent of immigrants from Mexico are undocumented, and
Mexicans accounted for about one-third of all migration to the United States
from 1999 to 2003. Shortly after taking office, President Bush went to meet
Mexico President Vicente Fox to discuss mutual immigration reforms, but four
years later, no significant progress has been made. As the U.S. economy improves
and creates more jobs, the number of Mexicans crossing the border to fill them
increases. A guest-worker bill that could help control migration has stalled in
Congress, and the political will to get it moving is in short supply.

U.S. policy intended to decrease illegal entry and violations such as
overstaying visas has been more effective at discouraging law-abiding foreigners
from visiting. Maybe Gov. Bush can persuade President Bush to fix that.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              31 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PHOTO-OP IS AT THE BORDER; KEY IS THOSE WHO'VE CROSSED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 495 words


The prospects for comprehensive immigration reform faded on Wednesday when
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said he intends to begin debating
border security on March 27, whether lawmakers are ready or not.

Sen. Frist's ultimatum put more pressure on Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Arlen Specter, R-Pa., who is trying to find consensus for a wider bill that not
only tightens borders but offers a plan for dealing with the 12 million
undocumented immigrants already here. Calling for tighter borders is universally
popular, but any solution for the 12 million is sure to alienate someone.
Conservative Republicans are suggesting that the Senate deal with enforcement
now and forget about the undocumented population until next year -- exactly the
kind of political shortsightedness that helped create the current mess.

Sen. Specter has the right idea in setting the goal of moving undocumented
immigrants "out from the shadows" and into a legal framework. President Bush
proposed a guest-worker program two years ago but neglected to provide details
on how it would work. President Bush also has proposed a manned mission to Mars
without furnishing those details, either. Immigration, Mars -- the White House
is about as close to delivering on one as the other. The president does know
what he doesn't want: anything resembling amnesty.

Sen. Specter and his committee members have to strike a politically charged
balance that doesn't reward immigrants for breaking the law yet offers them real
incentives for committing to the new plan. It's pointless to set up a system
that gives people no reason to participate.

Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John McCain, R-Ariz., have proposed the most
balanced guest-worker plan to date. It would allow people in the country
illegally to obtain six-year visas under which they could work here and travel
outside the country. The plan requires them to pay back taxes and $2,000 in
fines. Immigrants would have to submit to background checks, learn English and
obey the law. After six years, they could apply for a green card and permanent
residency. Sen. Kennedy correctly says that dealing with the undocumented
population is "really the heart and soul" of immigration reform. Tightening
borders is just the photo-op before the real work.

Sen. Specter says it would be a mistake not to come up with the whole package,
election year or not -- "I think we have to get it done right" -- and is
requesting more time from Senate leaders. Americans got a glimpse of how haste
and politics can contort reform in December when the House passed its
immigration bill -- one that made churches, charities and social workers legally
liable if they provided even the most basic assistance to undocumented people.

The Senate knows better than to make humanitarian acts crimes, but whether it
knows enough to reject election-year politics and deal with the country's urgent
needs is still doubtful. We'll find out beginning March 27.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              32 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IN THE SENATE, SENSIBILITY;
ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 650 words


On Monday, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved sweeping changes to U.S.
immigration law that would create a path to citizenship for the country's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. The legislation also calls for a
guest-worker program that would allow immigrants to fill certain low-wage jobs,
then return home.

What's missing in the Senate's first attempt at reform is as important as what's
there. The committee abandoned draconian measures backed by the House that would
make illegal immigrants felons and punish people who assist them. Casting the
humanitarian work of soup kitchens, hospitals and churches as criminal is the
worst example of how far "reformers" can go wrong when they pander to emotion
that underlines the issue. The Senate proposals acknowledge the realities of the
broken system and offer remedies that strike a reasonable balance between
accountability and incentives for a shadow population that makes essential
contributions to the economy.

The bill contains most of the ideas offered by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who proposed a system that rewards immigrants for
playing by the rules but stops well short of the A-word: amnesty. The country
tried that 20 years ago and learned that giving away legal status creates more
problems than it solves.

The committee's plan does not advance illegal immigrants to the front of the
line, ahead of people waiting to immigrate legally, a legitimate concern of some
lawmakers. The path to legal permanent residency would take six years of work,
and applicants would have to undergo background checks, learn English and pay
back taxes. They would face $2,000 in fines for breaking the law. This
transition from illegal to legal would be neither easy nor automatic. New
immigrants would have to obtain temporary visas and participate in the
guest-worker program. Employers would face real penalties if they hire outside
the program.

Enhanced security would be a by-product of a system that requires immigrants to
identify themselves and report what they're doing here. The bill recognizes the
importance of controlling U.S. borders, especially with Mexico, and calls for
hiring 14,000 new Border Patrol agents in the next five years to supplement the
current force of 11,300 agents. Instead of the 700-mile wall the House wants,
the Senate bill would use technology to create a "virtual wall" of cameras and
sensors to help turn back migrants attempting to enter the Southwest states.

The goal would be to again place the government, not groups of vigilante
citizens, in control. The threat of Al-Qaeda penetrating the Mexican border is
small. The bigger security threats are the smugglers, gang members and common
criminals who cross almost routinely.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., has a counter-proposal that focuses
more on punishing employers who hire undocumented workers, without offering the
guest-worker plan that President Bush correctly says is essential. In the House,
Republicans who advocate more restrictive immigration policy are willing to
break with the White House and block reform. With elections on the horizon, the
political will to make sensible choices is suspect, despite the many bipartisan
alliances. Leadership from the president, notably sorting out the disputes among
members of his own party, will be vital. Progress might be quicker if Congress
considered reimbursing states for some of the costs of illegal immigration.

In recent polls, a clear majority of Americans believe that illegal immigration
is a serious problem. No solution would be 100 percent successful at sealing
borders and making all immigrants legal. But the idea of criminalizing people
whose labor the public tacitly supports by its wish for low prices is wrong in
the moral sense and unenforceable in the practical sense. The best hope for
immigration reform this year lies with the Senate.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              33 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION DEBATE RATTLES STATE

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


State legislators monitoring the immigration reform debate raging in Washington
say a U.S. House proposal that would make being an undocumented immigrant a
felony would cripple the state's multibillion-dollar agricultural industry.

Since about 85 percent of farmworkers in the state are believed to be born
outside the United States, and up to 150,000 are thought to be in the country
illegally, it would be almost impossible for the industry to fill those
labor-intensive jobs that Americans have long refused to accept, the lawmakers
said.

"You would absolutely shut down the agricultural industry," said Rep. Baxter
Troutman, R-Winter Haven, a grove owner and vice chairman of the Florida
Legislative Commission on Migrant and Seasonal Labor.

Troutman and others on the commission said Tuesday that the immigration reform
package that the Senate Judiciary Committee approved this week would be the more
logical and humane approach to dealing with the country's 11 million to 12
million illegal immigrants.

That proposal, along with tightening border restrictions along the Mexican
border, would create a process for those in the country illegally to apply for
citizenship without first returning to their home countries and would expand
some rights for guest workers.

Commission members said that approach is the kind of answer they have been
waiting for out of the federal government for years.

Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, said they have been "walking on eggshells"
when trying to deal with a lack of health care, housing, education and safe
working conditions for Florida's undocumented workers.

If they extend benefits directly to the workers, they face harsh criticism from
citizens who feel those workers shouldn't be rewarded for breaking the law and
entering the United States illegally.

Do nothing, however, and they face the criticism of social services advocates
who complain of slavery-like conditions in Florida's fields.

Legislators have sidestepped the issue by providing money for nonprofit
organizations and charitable groups that have filled in some of those gaps. They
have proposed health care and tuition assistance for the children of
undocumented workers born in the U.S.

And the commission's final report released last month included $20 million for
affordable housing for migrant workers and disaster assistance for workers
"regardless of their documentation or immigration status."

But Aronberg said those measures only partly address the issues facing the
migrant community and passage of the U.S. Senate's immigration reform would
allow the Florida Legislature to provide benefits directly for a group of people
in the most dire need of the help.

"We were worried that it was going to take another 20 years for them to act and
we'd be in limbo for another 20 years," he said. "It looks like the limbo we're
in will end once they pass their immigration reform."

alan_gomez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              34 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW WILL ERODE GOP GAINS, MARTINEZ WARNS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Mel Martinez warned fellow Republicans Wednesday that the party could
jeopardize recent efforts to attract Hispanic voters by embracing "draconian"
immigration reforms.

"We, as Republicans, need to be careful about how we address this issue,"
Martinez, R-Fla., said in a speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "This issue
has galvanized the Hispanic community and the Latin community in America like no
other issue."

While non-Cuban Hispanic voters are largely affiliated with the Democratic
Party, Martinez said the GOP "has been making important gains" in the Hispanic
community that could be threatened by anti-immigrant rhetoric and actions.

Martinez, the first Cuban-born U.S. senator, was harshly critical of the House
immigration bill, which passed by a 239-182 vote in December.

He called some of its provisions "problematic" and "distasteful." Among the
provisions Martinez said were most offensive are those calling for a 700-mile
fence along the U.S.-Mexico border and those that would make it a felony to be
an illegal immigrant or to assist an illegal immigrant.

"Building a wall sends a message about our country that is inconsistent with who
we are," Martinez said in his speech. Later, he told reporters that a wall would
be a "contradiction of the Statue of Liberty" and its inscription welcoming the
world's "huddled masses."

Martinez's speech came as a divided Senate began considering its version of
immigration reform.

Republicans are split over whether the legislation should be limited to
enhancing border security or be a more comprehensive bill that would include a
guest worker provision and address the status of the nation's roughly 11 million
illegal immigrants.

President Bush has called for a guest worker provision, but Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., has sought to limit the bill to border security.

Martinez has been outspoken in his support for a comprehensive approach,
including a guest worker provision. He argues that U.S. businesses need to be
able to hire immigrant labor and that the country must provide a mechanism for
allowing those already in the country illegally to become legal residents and
eventually citizens.

He said there were several ways to provide legal status that would not give
amnesty to those who entered the country illegally. Among them could be fines,
payment of back taxes, a requirement to learn English and possibly a requirement
that those here illegally would have to return briefly to their country of
origin.

Noting that he arrived in the United States legally in 1962 as part of Operation
Pedro Pan, which brought Cuban children to this country, Martinez said he felt a
personal responsibility to play a part in the immigration debate.

While there is "no doubt" that those who entered the country illegally "have
broken the law," Martinez warned that punitive legislation would drive them
"deeper into the shadows."

Addressing the business concerns of the immigration debate, Martinez said he had
talked to numerous business owners in Florida who said it was essential that
they continue to have access to immigrant workers.

He recalled that one Florida employer had openings for 250 workers. Of the
roughly 900 people who applied for jobs paying $9 to $14 an hour, he said, "not
a single one was an American."

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Mel Martinez: The first Cuban-born U.S. senator says that 'draconian'
anti-immigrant action will alienate Hispanics. (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              35 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION STATUS ISN'T QUESTIONED OFTEN

BYLINE: By ALLYSON BIRD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 732 words


Once they're in, illegal immigrants don't have to sneak around. They can get
medical treatment, public education for their children and police assistance
without anyone asking questions.

Children enrolling in schools in Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties need
everything from immunization records to proof of address, but none of the school
districts requires immigration status to enroll.

The Palm Beach County Health Care District and the Martin and St. Lucie health
departments say no one checks a patient's status before treatment.

And when law enforcement officers in the three counties come across illegal
immigrants, they have no obligation to intervene unless the immigrants are
violating state law or are the victims of crimes.

"We do not ask people if they are illegal," Martin County sheriff's Lt. Jenell
Atlas said. "If someone needs us, we try to serve them the best way possible."

Similarly, Mark Chittum, administrative services director for the Martin County
Health Department, said, "When treating patients with communicable diseases like
tuberculosis or HIV, we're not going to ask what their immigration status is."

There's safety in that kind of anonymity, if you ask Jennifer Ng'Andu, health
policy analyst for National Council of La Raza.

The council is a Washington-based Latino civil rights and advocacy group. Its
members also train people who go into Latino communities - which include illegal
immigrants - to teach them about health issues such as diabetes.

Ng'Andu said asking questions can keep people from seeking help.

"By probing people about their immigration status, you can cause fear in a
community," she said. "When you have a group of people afraid to come forward,
it undermines the ability to prevent disease."

Ng'Andu said social services are still limited, and that access for illegal
immigrants to public health and public education benefit the community as a
whole.

But there's danger in that anonymity, if you ask Jim Gilchrist, founder of the
Minuteman Project.

The Minuteman Project mobilizes citizens on dusty desert borders, armed with
cellphones and binoculars, to report illegals trying to cross over. Gilchrist
calls it "the world's largest neighborhood watch," and its secretive Operation
Spotlight, an anti-smuggling campaign, has informants in South Florida.

Gilchrist suggests having more U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement offices
within the community and training local law-enforcement officers to serve as
liaisons with federal agents.

"I think we're at an apex now, a crisis situation where we need cooperation and
involvement in all branches of law enforcement before it leads to severe
consequences," he said. "I'm afraid, based on seeing all the rallies throughout
the country, that the next step is going to be insurrection."

He said it would be the "tough love" side of the issue if illegal immigrants'
children get turned away from schools or health care, but that it would be fair.

One group that doesn't have an opinion about illegal immigrants getting public
services is the U.S. Border Patrol.

Steve McDonald, spokesman for the patrol's Miami office, said local
law-enforcement offices have a choice to help curb illegal immigrants.

"If they choose not to call us, that's their decision and we respect that," he
said.

There are some programs in the three counties in which knowing the participants'
immigration status is essential.

In Martin County, more than 200 illegal immigrant mothers-to-be take part in a
voucher maternity program every year, each visiting the clinic about 10 times
during her pregnancy. The health department pays $78,000 annually for the
program, which serves women who do not have Medicaid because they're illegal.

In Palm Beach County, a health-care program for uninsured patients doesn't have
legal residency requirements, but people who can't provide documents such as a
driver license or Social Security number may not receive full benefits.

Illegal immigrants are not eligible for Social Security cards, because the
person applying for a card must prove citizenship or immigration status.
Acceptable forms of immigration status include Department of Homeland Security
documents with an immigrant visa, an unexpired passport or a work permit card -
documents an illegal immigrant would not have.

Staff writers Bill Douthat, Rachel Simmonsen and Jill Taylor contributed to this
story.

allyson_bird@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              36 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DELAY IMMIGRATION BILL IF ONLY CHOICE IS BAD BILL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 477 words


When reform becomes politically compromised, it can do more harm than good. This
is especially true when it comes to fixing immigration policy, a daunting
assignment even if it weren't an election year.

The Senate's prospects for passing a comprehensive immigration bill this week
are changing by the hour as both parties sway under influence of political
bases. Supporters of the guest-worker plan sponsored by Sens. John McCain,
R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., don't have the 60 votes to get the bill to
the floor. Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., says he's satisfied with an
enforcement and border control bill that does next to nothing about the
estimated 12 million illegals already here, and he may end debate. Waiting for
any conference negotiation is a House bill that makes illegal immigrants felons
and helping them a crime.

In contrast, the Senate has offered some constructive ideas that would help
immigrants assimilate. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., proposed an amendment that
would provide grants for English and civic classes, and allow citizenship for
applicants who are fluent in English after four years, instead of five. The
amendment passed 91-1. Assimilation has to be a priority for reformers. Recent
street violence in European immigrant communities is a consequence of relegating
foreign-born groups to economic and social castes without the hope of full
participation as citizens.

The McCain-Kennedy bill remains the best foundation upon which to build
constructive bipartisan compromise. Conservative Republicans want to set a
cutoff date - as yet undetermined - that would designate which immigrants would
be immediately eligible for the guest-worker program. Those arriving before the
cutoff could apply for legal residency if they pay fines and back taxes, submit
to background checks and learn English. Those arriving after the cutoff probably
would have to return to their homelands, then apply for legal entry. Setting a
reasonable cutoff date would be another way to ensure that reform efforts aren't
mistaken for amnesty.

The hope for reform rests with Republicans such as Florida Sen. Mel Martinez,
himself an immigrant. Sen. Martinez believes that Congress has to recognize the
economic contributions of the 7 million illegal workers in the U.S. and can't be
satisfied with border control alone. He also understands the political
ramifications of an issue he correctly says has "galvanized" Hispanics as never
before.

Whatever comes out of Congress cannot put additional burdens on cash-strapped
state and local governments that already are forced to take on federal control
and enforcement duties. If Congress can't pass a good reform bill, the issue
should wait until after the elections. Sen. Frist, the physician, should take
the political Hippocratic Oath and make as his first priority that the Senate
will do no harm.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              37 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' ADVOCATES CLOSELY TRACKING PROPOSAL

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 597 words


As lawmakers debate a bill that would grant the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship, immigration advocates are watching
the contentious battle play itself out in Congress.

"It's a very important moment," said Aileen Josephs, an immigration attorney in
West Palm Beach with more than 300 open cases. "This is something that is
needed. We're basically bringing out from the shadows 12 million people and
we'll know who they are."

Last month, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation to allow
illegal immigrants a chance to seek U.S. citizenship. In December, the House of
Representatives approved a more stringent version of the bill. But the bill must
still pass a full review by the complete Senate.

Lawmakers are tackling the issue of dealing with the groundswell of immigrants
that have long been part of the economy while living an underground existence
because they lack documentation.

A key component many are watching for is language in the version of the House
bill that would allow illegal immigrants to be charged with a felony if they
remain in the country or if citizens who aid them would face criminal charges as
well.

That includes anyone from a teacher, to a clergy member, to an immigration
attorney.

"They would all be at risk and be subject to criminal penalties," said Angelina
Castro, a Fort Pierce coordinator for the Florida Immigration Advocacy Center.
"It's so vague it would put anybody at risk."

Groups such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform believe the Senate
should choose a more stringent policy to help curb immigration.

"It is too early to know what the Senate is likely to do," said Jack Martin, a
FAIR special projects director. "We think it is a serious mistake for any
community to adopt a provision that would allow illegal immigrants to enter the
country. It undermines respect for the law and has significant fiscal costs for
taxpayers."

In Jupiter, concerns run deep about the effect the bill might have on a
day-labor hiring center scheduled to open in July. The center could become a
model for other cities with burgeoning day-labor populations, such as Lake
Worth.

The forthcoming "Neighborhood Resource Center" will probably be run by the
Catholic Charities and Corn Maya Inc. organizations and is estimated to serve
about 1,000 people a year with or without proper documentation. The Catholic
Diocese of Palm Beach recently issued a statement through the Florida Catholic
Conference Web site on its stance.

"As Catholics, our faith informs us that each of us has a promise to keep to our
immigrant brothers and sisters as well - the promise to work for just
immigration policies that promote families and honor human dignity. . . .
Immigration reform is not merely a political or policy decision. It is a
profoundly moral issue. The measure of a just society is how it treats its
weakest and most vulnerable members," according to the statement.

But some immigration advocates are disturbed by the effect the bill may have on
the future of day-labor centers.

"If I were an immigrant without papers, I wouldn't be hanging around down
there," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center, in Miami. "It's a place where border patrol is likely to target."

Local Hispanic activists are planning a rally for 10 a.m. Monday at Lake Worth's
city hall.

Martha Pardo, executive director of Centro Cultural Latinoamericano, based in
West Palm Beach, said time is running out for them before the Senate votes.

"It's now or never," Pardo said.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              38 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAVE NO 'RIGHT' TO DISOBEY LAW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 68 words


I keep seeing headlines and articles referring to "thousands protesting for
immigrants' rights" ("Immigration bills prompt more protests," April 1). No such
thing is happening.

These people are marching for illegal immigrants' "right" to break the laws of
the United States. I don't think we should do away with our laws but, rather,
apply our laws - all of our laws - to everyone.

JESUS NORIEGA

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              39 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHATEVER IS DONE WITH IMMIGRATION, AMNESTY OUT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 195 words


In regard to the question of amnesty given to illegal aliens residing in the
United States ("Immigration laws bow to economics," April 9):

There is a group of people who have been virtually forgotten in this issue. What
about the thousands from the Caribbean, Central and South America, Asia, Europe
and Africa who have spent large sums of money and time seeking sponsorship,
paying lawyer's fees, etc., in order to live here legally while seeking
citizenship? Has anyone asked them how they feel about illegals trying to remain
here without penalty?

I don't think anyone would dispute that the illegal population came to this
country to make a living. But in many cases, much of their income went to the
families they left behind. And the argument that they work jobs that Americans
do not want simply reinforces the fact that there are people in the United
States who refuse to pay living wages and thus continue to victimize the illegal
workers.

As readers can tell from my tone, I do not support giving amnesty to illegal
immigrants. If for no other reason, their easy entry into this country also
points out the many flaws in our security system.

CAROL TEITELBAUM

Wellington

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              40 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE IMMIGRATION BILL IS A JOKE - ON REPUBLICANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 159 words


The editorial Saturday saying that the "Senate immigration bill borders on the
realistic" is ridiculous.

There are so many problems with the bill, which actually puts illegals above
citizens and legal immigrants. Commit identity theft to get a Social Security
number, and you get immunity. Soon after, Social Security money will be sent to
Mexico as survivor benefits while the system goes broke. Employers have no
penalties for hiring illegal workers. Does anyone believe that the government
can set up a system to check paperwork? How about the cost of the entire
program?

We need skilled labor such as engineers and computer people. The illegal
immigrants are taking construction and other jobs, but everyone says they are
all gardeners and field hands. Nothing could be further from the truth.

The House bill more closely represents the feelings of the American people. The
Senate bill was passed to make the Republicans look bad.

RONALD SILBERG

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              41 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S SHORES VULNERABLE, FOLEY WARNS

BYLINE: By WILLIAM COOPER JR. Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


With smugglers getting up to $4,000 a person, Florida's shores probably will
become overwhelmed with undocumented immigrants as the United States secures its
southwestern borders, said U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fort Pierce.

Foley, using the local U.S. Homeland Security office as a backdrop, urged
President Bush to pump additional resources into Florida.

After meeting with officials from the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border
Patrol, Foley said Florida, particularly South Florida, is extremely vulnerable
to illegal immigration once the federal government tightens security in border
states.

"We need personnel," Foley said. "We're overstressed."

Foley's comments come at a time when immigration reform is being debated
nationally. Efforts to change federal immigration laws have sparked protests
across the country and prompted bitter political infighting among federal
lawmakers.

The Senate passed a bill that supports building a 370-mile fence along the
border and gives millions of illegal immigrants a chance of gaining U.S.
citizenship. The House has yet to approve any legislation.

Last month, President Bush called for sending National Guard troops to patrol
the U.S. border along Mexico. The troops would support Border Patrol agents, who
are physically guarding the border.

Two days after Bush's May 15 prime-time television address, Foley wrote a letter
to the president, telling him that cutting off flow in the southwest would lead
smugglers and drug runners to Florida.

"I fear they will turn to the waters off Florida as a way to enter the United
States," Foley in the May 17 letter.

On Wednesday, federal officials in South Florida briefed Foley to give him a
better understanding of the region's specific needs.

Although Foley didn't make public the amount of money or manpower needed to
secure Florida's shores better, he said he would begin talking to his colleagues
in Washington to beef up local resources.

Foley did say the latest information suggests that people trying to enter the
United States are paying upwards to $4,000 a person to get to Florida's shores.
If border states are no longer an entry point for illegal immigrants, Florida is
the next gateway for smugglers, he said.

"They don't care about their cargo," Foley said. "They just want to make a clean
buck."

bill_cooper@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              42 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JOB MAGNET ATTRACTS THE ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 700 words


I'm constantly on the lookout for insightful opinions about U.S. immigration
policy, which means I'm left with this constant feeling that I'm trying to find
the beer cooler at a Baptist picnic.

Occasionally, however, I do stumble onto something.

I credit T.J. Bonner for restoring my faith in serendipity. Mr. Bonner is
president of the National Border Patrol Council, a labor union that represents
about 10,500 U.S. Border Patrol agents. He has close to 30 years' experience
guarding the borders.

Mr. Bonner was talking to The Associated Press about building fences and
stationing National Guardsmen along the U.S.-Mexico border, and he offered this
assessment: "As long as illegal immigrants can readily obtain employment in the
United States, neither barriers nor increased staffing will discourage millions
of impoverished people from crossing our borders annually."

You will read and hear many comments on immigration during the months ahead, but
none will be more accurate or important than Mr. Bonner's. He points to the part
of the immigration debate Americans do not like to consider: the demand for
cheap labor to run the U.S. economy. Mr. Bonner is a demand-sider when it comes
to immigration economics.

So, election-year politicking has Congress talking about putting 850 miles of
fencing along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico. And President Bush already has
sent thousands of National Guard troops there. But Mr. Bonner, who has
considerable expertise in the matter, says it won't work. He told a Senate
committee this year that the nation has to "turn off the employment magnet" to
stop the illegal crossings. If it doesn't? "You could put several million border
patrol agents along those borders and it wouldn't be enough."

If Mr. Bonner were president, he would crack down on employers. He would make it
impossible for people to work here unless they have the legal right to work
here. He would create a legal system to bring in foreign workers. He also would
crack down on identity fraud and use advanced technology - a biometric system -
to screen people who are entering the country.

"You have people who are making on average in Mexico $4 a day and they can come
north and earn 20 to 50 times that much doing unskilled work," Mr. Bonner told
Congress. "Of course they're going to come. We can't blame them for coming
across. You and I would do the same thing if we were in their shoes. But, until
the magnet is turned off, we can throw all the resources we want to at that
problem and it will not prevent impoverished, hungry people from coming."

Mr. Bonner said he once caught and released the same group of people four times
during an eight-hour shift. That's how determined migrants are to get here. He
said the days of the "mom-and-pop" smuggling operations are over. Human
smugglers are members of organized crime cartels and charge up to $3,000 per
person - 10 times more than even a year or two ago - to lead migrants across the
border. Someone from China might pay $50,000, Mr. Bonner said. It has become big
business, and vigilante groups such as the Minutemen are helping to drive up the
price of human cargo but achieving little else.

"You may think, well, where do they get that money?" Mr. Bonner said. "They sell
themselves into indentured servitude, seven to 10 years, generally, that they
work for nothing. This is human slavery."

Shutting off the employment magnet would put smugglers and slave-traders out of
work. Shutting off the magnet would remove the incentive for migrants to risk
life and limb to get here. It would send Minutemen and National Guardsmen back
to their patios.

Rather than spend $2 billion to put more fencing on the border, Congress could
spend money on workplace enforcement, penalize disreputable employers and create
the guest-worker program President Bush wants that would give immigrants a legal
path to come here. The government has the wherewithal to shut off the magnet.
Whether it has the political will is the harder question.

Mr. Bonner has been looking this problem in the face for three decades. When he
talks, the nation should listen.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              43 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATORS WARNED NOT TO BACK FOREIGN WORKER AMNESTY BILL

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHEPARD Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


House members Thursday warned of career-ending consequences for senators,
especially those running for president, who vote to grant amnesty to
undocumented workers as part of a sweeping measure to stem the tide of illegal
immigration.

"If a bill is voted on in the Senate that has guest worker or temporary worker
(programs), it will be amnesty," said Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa. "And anybody that
votes for an amnesty bill deserves to be branded with a scarlet letter 'A' for
amnesty. They need to pay for it at the ballot box in November."

King was one of 16 Republican lawmakers who attended a news conference at the
Capitol to warn the Senate that any bill with a guest worker provision will not
pass the House. All are part of the House Immigration Reform Caucus, formed in
1999 to promote better enforcement of security at U.S. borders, especially the
2,000-mile border with Mexico.

The caucus is trying to convince the Senate to adopt a measure in line with the
one the House passed in December, which focused on border security and punishing
employers who hire illegal immigrants. The Senate is considering providing
avenues for the estimated 12 million aliens in the United States illegally to
remain through guest worker or amnesty programs.

One of the comprehensive approaches the Senate is reviewing is being promoted by
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a party maverick who is a possible candidate for the
GOP presidential nomination in 2008. And his White House aspirations came under
fire from the House Immigration Reform Caucus on Thursday.

"Those elected officials who are insisting on a guest worker program and
diluting the efforts of border security and internal enforcement are telling the
American people exactly whose side they are on, and it's the wrong side," said
Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif. '

Later, in response to a question from a reporter, Rohrabacher said, "TThose
people in the Senate who are basically looking out for the interests of somebody
else other than the American people will have to pay the political price, and
I'm sure Senator McCain, when he runs for president, will find that out."

Rohrabacher declined to comment when asked if President Bush deserved the same
kind of criticism, since the president generally supports an approach similar to
McCain's.'

But Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., the caucus chairman, said he wishes the
president would pay more attention because, he warned, the GOP could lose
control of the House and Senate over the immigration issue.

sshepard@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              44 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 30, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LANGUAGE AS INSENSITIVE AS ANTI-IMMIGRATION GROUP

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 277 words


Although I am not typically persuaded by arguments of political correctness, I
was shocked by the language used in the Nov. 13 article, "Day labor center idea
discouraged," about whether Jupiter should establish a day labor center to keep
"hordes of mostly illegal immigrants from swarming Center Street . . . "

Let's try some language substitutes.

How about "hordes of mostly African-Americans" or "hordes of mostly Jews"
swarming the street? While these examples would and should send shock waves
through readers, for some reason your editors found this language acceptable in
describing undocumented workers.

Perhaps the reporter has been listening too closely to the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, to whose point of view she devoted most of her
article. A recent editorial in The Wall Street Journal discussed FAIR's board
members who "actively promote the sterilization of Third World women for the
purposes of reducing U.S. immigration prospects," and that FAIR has received
more than $1.5 million from "a white-supremacist outfit devoted to racial purity
through eugenics." FAIR's agenda is to prevent the browning of America.

It is both tragic and comic that citizens of Jupiter have been duped into an
alliance with this group, and that your reporter, without blinking, would quote
FAIR's supposed concern for worker safety. The town of Jupiter has no
jurisdiction in the forced removal of undocumented workers. It is faced with a
situation on Center Street that should be addressed and can be addressed with a
day labor center. Those who live nearby and oppose the center are
incomprehensibly shooting themselves in the foot.

JOHANNA SHARP

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              45 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 3, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER TRYING TO SOLVE PROBLEM FEDS CREATED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 480 words


Jupiter has a problem with migrant workers, most of them illegal, who live in
the town, crowd older neighborhoods and gather daily at a pickup point on Center
Street to take odd jobs in the community or low-wage landscaping and
construction work. Administrators working for four years have proposed a series
of solutions, including a labor center that would move the gathering point from
a riverfront neighborhood to a more fitting commercial center.

Rather than force the migrants out - to become someone else's problem - Jupiter
proposes a reasonable solution with the labor center. But the issue is becoming
snarled in the national debate over illegal migrant workers. The town has the
attention of the extreme anti-immigration group Federation for American
Immigration Reform. And U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-Jupiter, has weighed in with an
unhelpful condemnation of the labor center. Rep. Foley seems more interested in
political expediency than helping Jupiter deal with the local fallout of the
federal government's failed policies. If Jupiter doesn't build a labor center,
what should it do? Rep. Foley can't say.

FAIR has tried to turn the attention away from Jupiter's dilemma. Illegal
immigrants are here. The question is what to do about them. As Jupiter grew by
57 percent from 1990 to 2000, its Hispanic population increased 293 percent,
rising from 3 percent of the population to 7.3 percent. While not all Hispanics
are illegal immigrants, those U.S. Census figures reflect the trend. A
not-for-profit group working with the immigrant community, Corn Maya, estimates
that the number of migrant workers in Jupiter is as high as 4,000.

Many can be found at dawn on Center Street, waiting for work. Jupiter residents
relied on migrants to fix homes, fences and landscaping after the summer
hurricanes. Neighbors complain about the crowds. Jupiter has set aside $200,000
to plan for a labor center and might buy a $1.2 million former post office. The
center would be run by Corn Maya.

While county schools are open to the children of thousands of illegal
immigrants, no citizenship questions asked, the town is told it would be
sanctioning illegal activities by providing a center. Rep. Foley argues that
immigrants would come from all over seeking jobs and says the center would
become an albatross. The town pledges to limit the labor center to migrants who
can show proof of Jupiter residence and close the open-air market at Center
Street, which draws outsiders now. Controlling the outsiders is a daunting task
worth trying.

Most of the problem is caused by the federal government's failure to enact
meaningful immigration reform. Also at fault are the town residents and
employers who seek the migrants for cheap labor. But the blame does not lie with
the town, which is trying to bring order to disorder while coping with demand
for an essential component of the labor force.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              46 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 22, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER CRIES OUT AGAIN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 408 words


The governors of Arizona and New Mexico declared states of emergency last week.
There was no natural disaster, epidemic or terrorist attack - just more
indifference from the federal government.

Janet Napolitano and Bill Richardson said the flow of illegal immigrants from
Mexico demands extraordinary measures, and the states can't wait for Washington
to do something. Gov. Napolitano's declaration freed up $1.5 million in state
disaster money to assist local governments. Gov. Richardson sent $1.75 million
in emergency money to cash-strapped border counties. They will use the money to
hire more police to turn back migrant workers and drug smugglers. Both governors
are inundated with complaints about stolen vehicles, property damage and
trespassing.

The federal government's approach to immigration surely qualifies as a disaster.
The numbers are staggering. Since October, the Border Patrol says its agents
have arrested more than 510,000 people trying to cross just in Arizona. How many
made it into the United States is anyone's guess. So is how many died in the
desert. The governors hope to curb the growing ranks of vigilante groups
policing the border without training and with dubious agendas. Help from
Congress or the Bush administration remains an unkept promise.

President Bush says he will push this fall for a guest-worker plan that would
allow millions of undocumented immigrants to hold jobs legally in the U.S., then
return to their homelands. But the president's proposal falls short of that
offered by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who do a
better job striking the right balance and offering immigrants attainable
incentives to play by the rules. Their proposal requires migrants who entered
the country illegally to pay back taxes and fines, then work for six years
before applying for legal residence.

Until Congress acts, the federal government has little to offer. The Department
of Homeland Security announced last week that it would air a series of public
service announcements on Mexican television. The ads will talk about the dangers
of suffocation when children are smuggled in the trunks of cars and the perils
of crossing the desert in the heat of summer.

Last year, Mr. Bush said he would hire 2,000 agents to shore up border security.
Only several hundred have been hired. Govs. Napolitano and Richardson know that
TV commercials and Washington promises won't solve their states' problems.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              47 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 25, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GIVE 'ILLEGALS' CARDS FOR SOCIAL SECURITY

BYLINE: Ron Wiggins

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 842 words


While spending the weekend in bed spazzed out with lower back pain and gulping
pain killers, I solved the problem of illegal alien workers - not to replace our
failed immigration policies, but for a reason of desperate urgency.

"Must cure Bill O'Reilly of delusion," I was heard to mutter as I lapsed into a
dream state, "that we can station soldiers every 50 feet from Texas to Baja."

O'Reilly has no idea of how demoralizing shoulder-to-shoulder border watches
would be for the three shifts of 200,000 guards his proposal would require. Does
he realize just how sucky "Join the Army and Stare at Sagebrush" would look on a
recruitment poster?

My proposal - the one that came to me in a dream state directly from God - will
be roundly despised. It is reminiscent of the garden columnist's reply to the
lawn owner who tried every dandelion remedy and still had dandelions.

"Learn to love them," the columnist replied.

We've got to love our guest workers and treat them as if we love them. We do
this by passing out Social Security cards like candy to every foreign worker who
wants them, and then drop the jailhouse on any American employer who even thinks
of hiring a Guatemalan without a valid Social Security card.

I know. This sounds like abject capitulation. Not so. It's highly
self-interested capitulation.

Spanglish is here to stay. Eleven million undocumented Latin Americans live
among us and aren't going anywhere but to the square looking for day labor and
to Wal-Mart to shop. The millions that are here will multiply. Millions more are
on their way.

We are already exploiting immigrant labor. Now let's exploit it in a way that is
win-win for them and for us.

Making sure all workers - even "illegal" workers - have Social Security accounts
would be smart. In fact, if we eventually want them to go back to their own
country, our only shot is to bribe them. You do that by stipulating that until
they become citizens, the only way to collect a pension or disability under
Social Security is to return home and watch your mail box.

I would end the fiction that to be born on U.S. soil makes you a U.S. citizen,
any more than I would be a French citizen because my parents happened to be in
Paris.

For my plan to work, we must absolutely insist that all wages be on the books,
subject to withholding, and that the burden is on employers - whether moms
hiring nannies or growers hiring pickers - to confirm the worker's identity and
coverage under Social Security. Washington must also come up to speed by making
it possible for employers to confirm registration of a guest worker any time of
the day with one phone call.

My provision that a non-citizen worker can only collect benefits by returning to
his or her country of origin is far from mean or cynical. The sad fact is that
bottom-rung wage earners collect so little in benefits that to receive them
would not support life if collected in the United States. The same American
benefits collected in Guatemala or Mexico would provide amply for a native and
even bolster the local economy.

Anything we can do to make our neighboring countries more prosperous reduces the
desperation of its citizens and the trend to head north for work.

Which brings me to what I consider a healthy cross-border trend: the flow of
American retirees with limited means to countries where the Yankee dollar buys a
comfortable retirement.

Every American pensioner who can barely survive on $700 or $800 a month Social
Security in this country, can live in dignity if not comfort south of the
border.

Excellent!

Assuming that we have 11 million illegal South Americans in our country, let's
see if we can send 11 million of our poorest retirees to Latin American
countries, thus reducing strain on U.S. social services while bolstering the
services and infrastructure in the host country.

Think of what our poor elderly are costing Medicare and consider the stupendous
savings if we sent half our Medicare outlays for these people to the Mexican
health care system (for example). Again, the power of the American dollar would
more than offset any burden to the Latin country.

My proposal - giving every Spanish-speaking foreign national who wants work a
Social Security account, and giving our poorer pensioners every incentive to
emigrate where their dollar will go further - can turn cross-border traffic into
a two-way freeway that benefits all.

And finally, what if the numbers crunchers - after weighing the benefits and
costs of importing cheap labor to pick our crops and clean our motels - conclude
that each illegal worker represents a net drain of X dollars a year. Here's a
simple remedy for the Mexican government to pay us the difference:

Run oil and gas pipelines up to the U.S. border and put a meter calibrated to
market energy prices. Then have Vicente Fox stand there each day and open the
tap until we're even-Steven.

Comprende? And una cosa mas: Cuidado! Piso Mojado.

If you understood any of that, you can tell Bill O'Reilly it's too late to
deploy his thin olive-drab line on the border.

- ron_wiggins@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              48 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 4, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CALM IMMIGRANT STORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 382 words


Hurricane Wilma interrupted the start of South Florida's harvest season and
changed the plans of many migrant farmworkers.

In November, typically, migrants leave jobs in northern states and come to
Florida, where work is plentiful. After Wilma tore up fields and ruined crops
here, many migrants have decided not to come. Others who had counted on working
in South Florida are heading north - even though many farmers need to hire more
workers to repair storm damage.

Because almost all migrants are undocumented, government's attempts at hurricane
preparation and relief afterward are often futile. Many illegal migrants rode
out the storm in decrepit trailers or substandard housing because they fear
deportation if they show up at shelters without paperwork. For the same reason,
they will accept assistance from churches and charities but are reluctant to
look for help at government distribution sites.

Florida agriculture and construction rely on the cheap labor of an itinerant,
undocumented work force. Without it, crops don't get harvested and roads don't
get built. An itinerant, undocumented work force, however, is also an unreliable
one. Giving undocumented workers status would help ensure that supplies of labor
can meet demand. Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., are
sponsoring a guest worker bill that would allow immigrants to enter the country
legally and fill vacant jobs. Unlike a similar plan President Bush proposes,
their bill has the right balance of incentives and requirements: Workers could
earn green cards after participating for six years and paying back taxes and a
$2,000 fine.

A recent report by the Center for Immigration Studies found that the
undocumented population is growing faster than immigrants with legal status. The
study estimates that the birth rate of undocumented women was about 50 percent
higher here than among women in their native countries. Immigrants from Mexico,
for example, had 3.5 children per woman compared with 2.4 children for women in
Mexico. About 280,000 children were born to undocumented mothers in 2002,
accounting for nearly 10 percent of all births in the United States.

Wilma brought a reminder of what happens when government allows problems to
fester. Among those problems is a broken immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              49 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROTECTIVE STATUS WOULD BRING TORRENT OF ILLEGAL GUATEMALANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 163 words


The Post's call for granting temporary protective status to Guatemalan illegal
immigrants ("Test guest-worker plan with area Guatemalans," Nov. 20) is
misguided at worst and unnecessary at best.

These illegal immigrants do not need the proposed protection. Because of the
federal government's failure to secure U.S. borders and to enforce existing
immigration laws, just about anyone who wants can enter and stay. The granting
of TPS only would encourage a deluge of illegals.

There are plenty of unemployed U.S. citizens and legal immigrants who would
benefit from employment, albeit employers would have to pay higher wages and
benefits, and costs to the consumer would rise. These increases would be more
than offset by decreases in federally mandated social and educational benefits
for illegal immigrants.

The Post fails to explain how these illegals would return to Guatemala after the
emergency passed. I doubt that any would go back voluntarily.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              50 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AMERICANS' CHOICES BRING US ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 250 words


Dan Moffett's column last Sunday, "Aiding and abetting the illegals," is right
on the mark.

It attempts to point out one of the ways in which manufacturers, retailers and
service providers keep prices low -- by using lower-priced undocumented workers.
Americans want their DVD players to cost $50. They want their grass cut for $10
a week. They want to fill their pantries for less than $100. But they don't want
undocumented workers getting American taxpayer benefits. Guess what, America?
You can't have it both ways.

Americans need to understand that to manufacture, package, distribute and market
products using only American labor would bump the prices of their products up by
as much as 300 percent to 400 percent. Ask them to pay $300 for a standard DVD
player, and watch them gasp. Ask them to pay three or four times as much for
lawn or pool service, and see how many customers come running.

The politicians have made this a hot issue at the moment. The media have taken
the bait. Americans will play along. Please, people, we've beaten this dead
horse so many times it's laughable. We've got real issues staring us down.

Our immigration policy is, at best, a distraction from more pressing issues. Our
enormous national debt, our dwindling manufacturing base, improving
opportunities for our poor and for our children and getting some people in the
Senate, the House and the executive branch who are honest and care about our
country are just a few of those real issues.

MARK MAZZOLI

Port St. Lucie

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              51 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECURE BORDERS, THEN DEAL WITH MESS ILLEGALS CAUSE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 191 words


The Post's April 11 headline screams, "Immigrants rise up across country,
nation." But an honest headline would read "Illegal immigrants rise up..." The
Post also prefers, as always, to be politically correct by calling illegal
immigrants "undocumented workers." The Post, not Congress, is "out of touch."

An analogy is, the bathtub water is overflowing, and The Post hollers at the
kids and wants to know who left the spigot on and who is going to clean up. The
majority of Americans, however, first say "turn off the spigot, then clean up
the mess." Once the border is secure, we will resolve the mess that politics
alone has caused.

To begin, enforce a $10,000 fine on businesses for hiring an illegal immigrant.
Illegals should be able to apply for a guest worker program only from their
country of origin, where they will get in line behind those who have chosen the
legal way. Allow local police to cooperate with the border patrol. No catch and
release.

But those who do not respect the rights of others and sneak into this country
illegally should not be rewarded and given an entitlement for committing an
illegal act.

ROGER BUTTS

Riviera Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERSE TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              52 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH PLAYING BAD COP ON IMMIGRATION BEAT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 600 words


It would have been easier to appreciate President Bush's national address on
immigration five years ago, before problems of porous borders and an economy
dependent on illegal workers reached today's high-decibel levels.

As a former governor of Texas, Mr. Bush knows that the country needs
comprehensive reform. However belatedly, the president is trying to nudge
Congress and the nation in the right direction. Mr. Bush told Americans Monday
night that a partial fix won't work, and neither will criminalizing people whose
labor the United States wants and needs. "America can be a lawful society," he
said, "and a welcoming society at the same time." The goals are "not
contradictory." But Mr. Bush is trying to straddle his own political borders.

The president tried to placate his anti-immigrant base with cosmetic
militarization of the U.S.-Mexico border while advocating a path to legal status
for the 12 million illegal immigrants already here. He wants to deploy 6,000
National Guard troops in two-week rotations to support Border Patrol agents. No
White House has demanded so much from citizen soldiers, some of whom still are
pulling unreasonably long tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, where 70
percent of their equipment is. The drain on the Guard was evident after
Hurricane Katrina when Louisiana and Mississippi had to request units from
adjoining states.

Even as a stopgap, Mr. Bush's use of the Guard for border control is a poor
substitute for the federal government taking responsibility and deploying
adequate resources. In areas where Border Patrol units have been increased in
recent months, crossings are down as much as 70 percent. Mr. Bush wants to hire
6,000 more Border Patrol officers within two years -- 14,000 by 2011 -- and
supplement them with high-tech security devices. That's something else Mr. Bush
could have done five years ago.

The saber-waving on the border is supposed to convince enforcement-only
Republicans in the House that a guest-worker program isn't amnesty. The White
House is backing a compromise Senate bill, sponsored by Republicans Mel Martinez
of Florida and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, that would distinguish illegal
immigrants according to how long they've been in the country. The longer they
have worked in the U.S., the easier it would be to enter the program. Immigrants
here less than two years would have to leave. No one who's illegal goes to the
front of the line. Even in the best case, it would take about 11 years to attain
U.S. citizenship, and applicants would have to learn English and pay back taxes
and fines. Nothing that takes 11 years qualifies as amnesty.

Comprehensive reform has benefits that Americans may not be able to hear through
the political bombast. Requiring digital fingerprinting of immigrant workers and
requiring them to get tamper-proof ID cards would enhance national security.
Fines and taxes from immigrants -- as well as employers' violations -- would
bring in hundreds of millions of dollars for enforcement. Cracking down on
disreputable employers will help reduce safety and health violations at the
local level. A program that sets incremental goals with regular participation
will promote assimilation.

The president wants to find a "rational middle ground" between automatic
citizenship and mass deportation. But it's hard to find rationality in the
House, which late last year passed a bill that makes felons of illegal
immigrants and the people who offer them assistance. Mr. Bush can't assign the
National Guard to put down the extremists in his own party. This is one battle
he'll have to fight himself.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              53 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL WORKERS 'A BURDEN,' SHAW SAYS

BYLINE: By NICOLE JANOK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


They might hide in the shadows of everyday life, but the effects of undocumented
immigrants on health care, crime, education and Social Security are quite
visible, community leaders said Thursday at an immigration forum.

Reps. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, and Phil English, R-Pa., met with a
six-member panel at city hall to discuss the increasing immigrant population in
Palm Beach and Broward counties.

"It's our responsibility to view all aspects of this before we pass law," Shaw
said. "We're not just dealing with a problem; we're dealing with human beings."

The forum made him aware of how difficult it can be for cities like Lake Worth
and Jupiter, which are forced to address the issue of undocumented immigrants
without solid federal guidelines, he said.

"There is a huge burden there on the local communities," Shaw said. "And of
course, it's a federal responsibility that really isn't being met to secure our
borders."

Lake Worth Mayor Marc Drautz said it's possible that undocumented immigrants
occupy nearly half of the city. Policy reform targeting contractors who take
advantage of the laborers is needed, he said.

Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw told the congressmen that he has taken
steps to provide legitimate identification for immigrants, which helps them
obtain driver licenses and bank accounts.

Bradshaw also said a recent $1.4 million grant will allow the sheriff's office
to step up patrol of the county's coastline, where immigrants come ashore
illegally.

Alan Levine, president of North Broward Hospital District, told the congressmen
that health-care reform is needed. He cited millions of dollars in uncollected
hospital bills generated by undocumented immigrants who have no health insurance
and are forced to use a hospital emergency room as a doctor's office.

During the forum a small but vocal group of protesters gathered outside, beating
a drum and chanting: "We're all immigrants," and "Is Clay Shaw a racist? Yes!"

Protesters said they were angry that the forum did not allow for public
participation. Several nonprofit representatives questioned why they were not
invited to speak.

"If he was really concerned about hearing a diverse viewpoint, he would invite a
diverse group of people to speak," said Christine Jones of the Association of
Community Organizations for Reform Now.

Shaw spokeswoman Gail Gitcho said the panel of community leaders was chosen
because they had contacted Shaw about immigrant issues. She also said the
nonprofit groups were asked to submit a statement that could be read at the
forum, but no one responded.

nicole_janok@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2006 Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 DAMON HIGGINS/Staff Photographer Protesters calling him a racist hound Rep. E.
Clay Shaw after an immigration forum Thursday in Lake Worth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COMPARING APPLES, ORANGES AND PEARS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 677 words


Congress has not passed an immigration bill this year and probably won't. But
the mere talk of closing the Southwest border and cracking down on illegal
workers has been enough to have a dramatic impact on businesses across the
country.

A sampler:

The New York Apple Association reports a "crisis situation" because of a 30
percent decline in the migrant labor force that threatens to leave fruit rotting
on the trees, despite growers' willingness to pay pickers up to $13 an hour.

The California Farm Bureau Federation reports as much as a 20 percent reduction
in employment of farmworkers -- a shortage of about 70,000 -- during the peak of
the harvest season. Pear growers near San Francisco might have had a record year
but could not find enough workers to pick the fruit before it was too late.
Strawberry farmers have plowed under crops, and vineyards have grapes dying on
the vine.

In South Texas, there aren't enough workers to get the onion harvest out of the
ground. "We're seeing the wolf at the door," Texas Produce Association president
John McClung told The Associated Press. The Potato Growers of Idaho say their
workforce is down 18 percent. In Kentucky, the tobacco crop is burning up in the
fields. The Wind River Mushroom Farm in Wyoming is closing because it can't find
workers.

In Florida, Miami-Dade farmers are signing empty grocery bags and sending them
to Congress with messages of support for a federal guest-worker program. Citrus
growers face millions in losses if they can't overcome labor shortages soon.
Belle Glade farmers lost hundreds of acres of corn this year because no one came
to pick them.

Precise numbers don't exist, but the estimate is about 75 percent of the
nation's 2.5 million farmworkers are here illegally. So far, only a small
percentage -- certainly less than 10 percent -- of the illegal workers have left
farming for other jobs, returned home or gone underground. Yet, they leave a
powerful warning.

As much as the wolf at the door, this is the canary in the mine shaft. Again,
Congress hasn't done anything yet. Most of the reaction so far is over what
might happen. Federal immigration officials made a series of highly publicized
sweeps of job sites this year, deporting illegal workers and arresting
employers. The intimidating effect of the sweeps is apparent now in Florida's
orange groves, California's pear orchards and what's in between.

The American Farm Bureau says if the government doesn't go beyond border
enforcement and find a way for immigrants to work here legally, "the impact on
fruit and vegetable farmers nationwide would be between $5 billion and $9
billion annually."

Beyond agriculture, business leaders along the Gulf Coast are committing
millions to recruit and train up to 20,000 new construction workers by 2009 to
help the rebuilding from Hurricane Katrina. The Louisiana Legislature will spend
$15 million on training. The immigrants who were supposed to anchor rebuilding
have migrated elsewhere to lower-profile jobs.

The National Restaurant Association is urging lawmakers to create a program that
would allow undocumented workers to earn green cards. The government issues only
10,000 cards for service-industry workers each year. "Over the next decade," the
NRA says, "the number of jobs in the food service business will grow
one-and-a-half times as fast as the U.S. labor force."

Nick Vojnovic, chairman of the Florida Restaurant & Lodging Association, says
his members have to have foreign workers. "Immigrants are the lifeblood of our
industry," he told Nation's Restaurant News. "Florida's unemployment rate is 2.8
percent. We've had stores unable to open because there aren't any workers."

There is an inescapable reality Americans will learn as the contentious debate
in Washington sets off angry brush fires in communities across the country: The
U.S. economy cannot sustain itself without immigrant labor. Congress can't build
a wall high enough or long enough to change that.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 30, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOES OF DAY LABORER CENTER IN JUPITER PROTEST

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Neighbors claiming their streets have become an employment zone for undocumented
workers protested Saturday afternoon, wearing red shirts and holding up signs
with slogans such as: "Illegal Labor is Racketeering."

A group called Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor led the three-hour
protest with about 50 members during the high-traffic hours at the intersection
of Indiantown Road and Military Trail. The demonstration took place just outside
the town's annual Jupiter Jubilee festival.

For months, the group has attempted to call attention to the issue of
undocumented workers with speakers at town council meetings and before local
political organizations. The group claims unchecked illegal immigration is
responsible for the town's growing day laborer population.

"We have no clue who these people are," said Britt Burton, an organizer. The
Coast Guard veteran believes the presence of undocumented workers is a homeland
security issue. "This country is not indestructible. People need to realize that
9/11 really happened. My motivation is to protect what my ancestors built."

The protest is also the latest attempt to stifle plans for a proposed
neighborhood resource center that would become the main job referral source for
day laborers. The resource center has been proposed by the not-for-profit
organization Corn Maya Inc., which now gives job referrals from its office on
Dixie Highway.

Corn Maya board member Tim Steigenga made a plea for local support during a
January meeting of the Jupiter Democratic Club.

"The center is the only constructive solution," said Steigenga, a Florida
Atlantic University professor.

But members of Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor repeatedly have urged the
town not to approve it because it would become a magnet for illegal immigrants.
The town council has not made a decision.

The issue of day laborers is simmering in another area of Palm Beach County as
well. In Lake Worth, complaints about day laborers on Lake Avenue have prompted
a campaign by police to issue citations to undocumented workers and employers
who contract with them on the street. Mayor Rodney Romano is attempting to find
a designated place where day laborers can congregate and has contemplated
building dormitory housing.

Problem widespread

A resource center like the one proposed in Jupiter is a good solution, Romano
said.

"We can all agree that their presence is a burden," Romano said. "This isn't
just a Lake Worth problem. It's a problem everywhere they live. Our United
States Congress has abandoned municipalities on this issue.

"I think the (day laborers) should be here because it's in America's best
interest for them to be here. It is not in our best interest to send them
packing. If we enforce our current immigration laws and round up our illegal
immigrants, and deport them, our economy would fall flat, according to (Federal
Reserve Chairman) Alan Greenspan. We need a guest worker statute that would
allow for people to be here legally. They're just trying to earn a living."

Throughout the country, towns and cities have begun to make accommodations for
the day laborer population, with mixed results.

In Duluth, Ga., for example, the Spanish-language ministry of Calvary Christian
Church has established the Hispanic Community Support Center. The center gives
job referrals to about 80 people daily during peak season. It has become a
successful hiring center that has cleared local streets of most "hornaleros," or
day laborers, on most mornings, said Executive Director Maria Espinosa Garcia.

"There's a great demand for them here," Garcia said in Spanish. "People will
waste a lot of money on protesting a center without resolving the problem. We
need to begin a dialogue about it. The laborers here have gotten involved in the
center and addressed community issues because they feel like the center is a
second home."

Town officials also have issued a city ID card that keeps out-of-town day
laborers from gathering on Duluth's streets.

"It became a very bad problem for everybody," said Mayor Shirley Lasseter.
"People would jump into cars while at fast-food restaurants. It came to the
point of being obtrusive to our residents."

The city resolved the issue with the ID cards, issued through the police
department.

Day laborers with ID cards will not be ticketed, Lasseter said.

In Glendale, Calif., a hiring center established by Catholic Charities appeared
to resolve the complaints about day laborers congregating on the streets until a
city-approved anti-solicitation ordinance, enforced by police, was struck down
in federal court.

"In the center, there's a little bit of control," said Sgt. Mark Hansen of the
Glendale community policing unit. "It's been manpower intensive since the
ordinance was struck down. This five-block area is deluged with day laborers. We
literally have to stay out there, otherwise they'll come back."

There are about 130 such hiring centers in the country, said attorney Rebecca
Smith of the National Law Project. Smith said the centers tend to ease community
concerns.

Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor has sought support from the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, based in Washington, D.C., in an attempt to
fight the Jupiter center.

"They quite frankly have very limited recourse," said Mike Hethmon, a staff
attorney for the federation. "When you scratch the surface, it's a very very
complex issue. That's why it's a problem the council is grappling. They have to
deal with a problem that has federal and national makings. We don't know of a
single case where institutionalizing these labor markets has some sort of
positive effect. You end up with a magnet for illegal aliens."

Jupiter's issue has spurred "a very healthy public debate," he said.

The debate will continue as Jupiter's proposed hiring center gains the interest
of other local activists.

Members of the Jupiter Democratic Club are the latest to become involved after a
January presentation about the proposed hiring center. The party's local chapter
plans to form a committee of experts to study the issue and make a
recommendation to the town council.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

Modern Day Slavery

Access The Post's special investigation into the plight of immigrants who risk
their lives to work on U.S. farms.

PalmBeachPost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer Members of Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal
Labor protest Saturday on Indiantown Road. Housing deterioration is one of their
concerns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              56 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 8, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FIGHT HUMAN TRAFFICKERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 405 words


Most Floridians have no idea that their state is a favorite destination of human
traffickers, who smuggle illegal immigrants across the Mexican border and often
force them into slave labor or prostitution to pay for the trip.

The story Susana Mateo Jose told Lantana police last week was typical. The
18-year-old Guatemalan walked into Arizona with 16 others; then smugglers drove
them to relatives and acquaintances in Alabama and Florida. Her story became
atypical when her parents couldn't pay the $2,500 they owed the two men who
delivered her to a Kmart parking lot in Lantana.

Police say Ricardo Contreras, 33, and Regino Sanchez, 24, told the parents they
would sell their daughter into a slavery ring and sped away. Authorities tracked
the abductors through a cellphone number to a Lake Worth home and arrested them
six hours later, after chasing their SUV onto Interstate 95. Police found
$11,000 in the vehicle and a ledger with the names of smuggled migrants and the
amounts owed for their trips. With no shortage of economic refugees, smuggling
has become a lucrative industry for mom-and-pop operations.

Two years ago, prosecuting the men for human trafficking would have been up to
federal agencies - a dubious prospect, given their preoccupation with terrorism
and homeland security. But state and local authorities can act independently now
because the Legislature had the good sense last year to pass its own
anti-trafficking bill, which mirrors the federal law. Contreras and Sanchez
could be the first to face charges under the state statute and could get 30
years if convicted.

Because the federal government has abdicated its duty to control the borders and
enforce immigration law, states have no choice but to deal with problems they
didn't create but cannot ignore. Florida's 6-month-old law was written with
cases such as Lantana's in mind. It draws an important distinction between
smuggling - transporting someone illegally for a fee - and trafficking, which
involves forcing the victim into prostitution or servitude. Many migrants don't
realize that the price they will pay for the smuggling is their freedom.

No one can offer more than an educated guess, but experts believe that human
traffickers victimize about 20,000 people a year. State and local police
discover the crime more often than federal law enforcement. In Florida, they
have the right tool to prosecute offenders and should use it more often.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              57 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ALIEN-SMUGGLING CASE MOVES TO FEDERAL COURT

BYLINE: By SCOTT McCABE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 334 words


Federal prosecutors have taken over the investigation into an alleged smuggling
ring that was discovered after two men refused to turn over an 18-year-old
illegal immigrant to her parents.

After their arrests last month, Rogino Sanchez and Ricardo Jose Contreras became
the first in Florida to be charged with the state's 6-month-old law against
trafficking in human beings.

But Tuesday the duo appeared in federal court in Fort Pierce on federal charges
of transporting illegal aliens.

"Alien smugglers jeopardize the lives of foreigners who simply yearn for a
better life," said Marcos Daniel Jimenez, U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of Florida. "We are going after the trafficking networks that have no
regard for human life."

Federal authorities took over the case because they would be able to charge
stiffer penalties than the state, and they have more options to investigate
other possible activities, such as money-laundering and immigration violations,
said Nina Pruneda, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman.

If convicted on the charge of transporting aliens within the United States for
profit, the defendants face a statutory maximum term of imprisonment of 10
years. If convicted on the conspiracy charge, the defendants face a statutory
maximum term of imprisonment of five years.

Police say that the parents of Susana Jose, 18, who live in Boynton Beach,
arranged for her to be brought from Guatemala to the United States and made a
down payment. Contreras and Sanchez met the Joses to deliver Susana at a Kmart
parking lot at 1201 S. Federal Highway in Lantana at 6:30 a.m. March 29.
However, a dispute arose over the final payment and the men sped off.

They eventually were arrested on Interstate 95 near Northlake Boulevard.

Authorities say Susana Jose was the final drop-off for an illegal immigrant
smuggling ring that brought 17 Guatemalans into the United States and delivered
them one by one to relatives and acquaintances in Alabama and Florida.

scott_mccabe@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Rogino Sanchez (mug) 2. Ricardo Jose Contreras (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              58 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 7, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUSPECTED SMUGGLER HELD WITH 6 NEW IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: TEQUESTA


A Fort Myers man known for alien smuggling faced new charges Friday of
transporting six Haitian immigrants from the Bahamas.

Tequesta police patrolling the coast along Coral Cove Park at about 6 a.m. found
American-born John Kittles, 43, and a Pine Island resident among a group of six
Haitian immigrants after the group landed an 18-foot motorboat on the park
beach, said Officer Brian Youngblood.

U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested Kittles, who had a portable navigating
system, when they found him and the immigrants between the 100 and 400 blocks of
Beach Road.

He is wanted on an outstanding warrant from the U.S. Marshals Service on a
previous charge of alien smuggling, investigators said.

Under questioning, Kittles said little in his defense.

"He just kind of had a casual grin on his face," Youngblood said.

Police found the four men and two women - all from Haiti - in wooded areas in
the park and nearby condominiums and turned them over to the Border Patrol.

They were taken to Krome Detention Center near Miami after one woman was treated
and released for dehydration at Jupiter Medical Center.

The Border Patrol is investigating whether Kittles is part of a larger-scale
immigrant smuggling ring.

This was the second day boats have dropped immigrants off in northern Palm Beach
County.

The boat landing caused quite a stir. Tequesta police, the U.S. Coast Guard,
Border Patrol, a sheriff's helicopter, Jupiter Inlet Colony police and park
rangers joined in a wide search of the area.

On Thursday, Border Patrol agents arrested 21 people after they landed near the
Jupiter Lighthouse at about 5:30 a.m. and were seen walking near a gas station
along U.S. 1 and Alternate A1A.

The group consisted of nine Jamaicans, 11 Haitians and one person from the
Dominican Republic. They all said they were smuggled in by the same boat
operator from Freeport, in the Bahamas.

"The activity in that area has picked up," said Michael McClarnon, a Border
Patrol agent based in Riviera Beach.

That has put local police on alert in anticipation of more arrivals. The recent
fair weather may also be contributing to more arrivals.

"It makes it a little easier for these people to get here," Youngblood said.
"This is the time of the year it happens. They're coming in 18-foot boats and
going across the Gulf Stream. It gives you a little bit of an insight into their
desperation."

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 John Kittles (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              59 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SECOND BODY LINKED TO IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: JUPITER ISLAND


The body of a man that washed up in the surf off southern Martin County on
Thursday afternoon is thought to be connected to a group of undocumented
immigrants who were apparently dropped offshore the day before.

The body was discovered by a survey crew working behind a home on South Beach
Road, several miles north of where the Haitian immigrants say they were forced
off a boat 25 to 50 yards offshore early Wednesday.

A woman's body found Wednesday in the ocean off the Jupiter Inlet was identified
by Palm Beach County sheriff's officials Thursday as Roselyne Lubin, 26. She
reportedly had relatives in the Fort Lauderdale area and had been deported once
before when she tried to reach the United States from the Bahamas.

Palm Beach County officials were not certain whether she was a native of Haiti
or the Bahamas.

Her death is under investigation as a homicide after reports from other
passengers who made it to shore that the captain of the smuggling boat and a
crew member forced people off the boat, some reluctantly, and told them to swim
to land.

The black man found on Jupiter Island had not been identified Thursday
afternoon, and an autopsy will be performed to determine how and when he died.
He was wearing a shirt but no pants, prompting speculation he kicked them off
while struggling in the water.

"It looked like he had been dead for some period of time. At least 24 hours,"
Jupiter Island Police Chief William Mason said.

Authorities in Martin and Palm Beach counties caught seven people who said they
paid to come across the ocean on a boat with a two-man crew. Officials believe
at least two others got away when they got to shore, and the boat captain and
his crew mate have not been caught.

They weren't certain how many immigrants were on the boat or whether any other
victims could be found in the ocean.

The violent crimes task force in Palm Beach County is planning to put together a
human smuggling task force to combat the problem of the illegal and dangerous
crossings.

"We have to do something to try to stop this, otherwise it's just going to
continue," Palm Beach County sheriff's Lt. Michael Wallace said.

Aside from that, he said authorities need to look at the big picture: homeland
security.

"We'd be foolish not to look at that," Wallace said. "If you see a pipeline for
human smuggling and drugs, why would they not be able to bring in not only
terrorists, but weapons of mass destruction?"

The next step for the task force is to start talking with federal and state
officials and their Martin County counterparts. "Right now we're just taking
baby steps," Wallace said.

Investigators on Wednesday also found at least nine packages of carefully
wrapped cocaine on the beach and in the surf, and one of the men captured was
turned over to Drug Enforcement Administration officials as part of their
investigation.

Landings of undocumented immigrants are not uncommon along Martin County's
barrier islands. There have been several deaths over the years, including the
drownings of two young boys found on Hutchinson Island along with two adult
bodies in 1994.

Staff writer Ana X. Ceron contributed to this story.

- jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Investigators check a body that washed up
Thursday on Jupiter Island, several miles north of where Haitian immigrants say
they were forced off a boat early Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THOUSANDS MARCH IN SAN DIEGO FOR IMMIGRANT RIGHTS

BYLINE: By BOB KEEFE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


In a boisterous prelude to rallies planned nationwide today, thousands of
immigrant rights supporters marched through this city just north of the Mexican
border Sunday, demanding comprehensive immigration reform.

The March for Hope, Dignity and Respect in San Diego, less than 20 miles from
Mexico and the country's busiest border crossing, came two days after a highly
touted Senate immigration bill stalled under partisan rancor.

"They're playing games," Michelle Sanchez, 29, a nurse born in California and of
Mexican descent, said of lawmakers. "They tell us they don't want us, but then
they turn their backs and profit from our work in construction, from fruit, from
the vegetable fields."

By some estimates, more than 50,000 protesters turned out in the first hour of
the rally in San Diego.

A rally in Dallas drew between 350,000 to 500,000 people and thousands also
gathered in Minnesota and Iowa.

Today, immigrant rights groups plan to stage similar rallies in more than 120
cities across the country, from Atlanta to Los Angeles. The biggest is expected
to be in Washington, where organizers hope to draw 200,000. In San Diego, groups
plan to a hold a vigil dedicated to immigrants who have died while trying to
cross the border illegally.

The rallies could result in temporary work stoppages across the country, from
hotels and restaurants in Georgia to vegetable fields in central California.

Organizers say they will keep up the civic activism and potential work stoppages
until Congress passes laws they think satisfactorily address the status of the
estimated 12 million immigrants now living illegally in this country and smooths
the way for future generations to work and live in the United States.

"It's clear to move through this blockage our elected leaders are going to have
to feel a lot more heat," Tom Snyder, political director for the Unite Here
union said in a conference call with reporters Friday. The union represents
about 450,000 textile, hotel and restaurant workers. "That's our focus now."

Added Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights and advocacy organization: "Every time we march, we make
progress."

The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee pledged Sunday to have a measure
ready for debate soon after lawmakers return to Washington in two weeks and
expressed optimism that it could pass.

"I think tempers will cool over a two-week period. And also, there are going to
be some expressions by many people very unhappy with the Senate not passing a
bill and very unhappy with the House bill" that would make being an illegal
immigrant a felony and penalize those who employed such immigrants, Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa., told Fox News Sunday.

In response to criticism from some lawmakers about the immigrant rights rallies,
Munoz compared them to the black civil rights marches of the 1960s and the
Boston Tea Party that spurred the American Revolution.

Clearly, immigration issues are testing the nation's consciousness. In an
AP-Ipsos poll released Sunday, 13 percent of respondents said immigration was
the nation's top problem - four times the number that said that in January.
Immigration ranked slightly below the economy and the war in Iraq in the survey
of 500 adults.

In San Diego, one marcher held a sign that said: "Minutemen YOU work the
fields," referring to the controversial volunteer border patrol group.

bkeefe@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 SANDY HUFFAKER/The Associated Press Demonstrators cheer Sunday during the March
for Hope, Dignity and Respect in San Diego, less than 20 miles from Mexico and
the nation's busiest border crossing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              61 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH REINVIGORATES SENATORS IN IMMIGRATION REFORM PUSH

BYLINE: By LILLY ROCKWELL Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An intervention by President Bush on Tuesday revived a major immigration reform
bill that stalled on the Senate floor weeks ago, with lawmakers newly optimistic
a bill can be completed by the end of May.

Bush met privately Tuesday afternoon with a dozen key senators from both
political parties involved in crafting a sweeping immigration reform bill at the
White House. Afterward, he pressed them to finish a bill this year that is
approved by the House and Senate.

"We have a chance to get an immigration bill that is comprehensive in nature to
my desk before the end of this year," Bush said.

The positive response he received marks a shift in outlook from two weeks ago,
when lawmakers couldn't get a bill out of the Senate because they were mired in
partisan bickering and divided by internal party disputes.

The leading Senate proposal would tighten border security and increase penalties
against employers, while also establishing a guest worker program that allows
most of the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States to work
legally and then earn citizenship.

But this bipartisan compromise collapsed on the Senate floor just before
lawmakers left for a two-week Easter recess because Republicans and Democrats
couldn't agree on how to vote on amendments.

"We were unable to complete a bill for procedural reasons, not on policy and not
on substance, but for procedural reasons," Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist
told reporters after the White House meeting. But he promised that "in the very
near future" the bill would come back up for debate.

Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid said he and Frist have to figure a way out of
the "procedural quagmire" in the Senate.

"We have our eye on the prize," Reid said. "We thought we did the last day we
were here before Easter recess, and it got away from us. We're going to hang on
to it. And before we break for Memorial Day, we're going to try to do a bill
that goes to the House."

"I think today was a confidence-building measure for the Democrats," said Sen.
Mel Martinez, R-Fla., one of the coauthors of the immigration plan with Sen.
Chuck Hagel, R-Neb. "There is still a few days to work it out. No doubt there
are difficult discussions that have to take place, but I think we are on our
way."

he-line without amnesty" for those immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, and
a guest-worker program for temporary legal immigrants.

"I think they (senators) saw in him determination and assurance that he is
committed to a comprehensive solution that is much beyond where the House is"
Martinez said.

Missing from this hastily called White House meeting were the conservative
lawmakers who advocated against the Senate proposal that allows illegal
immigrants to become citizens.

Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and John Kyl, R-Ariz., two lawmakers who do not
support the Senate proposal, were not present. They are pushing their own
immigration measure that requires illegal immigrants to return to their home
country.

The House passed a stringent border security and enforcement-only bill, with no
guest worker component, in December.

For months, the Senate has been crafting its own immigration bill that includes
a guest worker program. But this process hasn't been easy, with finger-pointing
and partisan stalling tactics dominating the floor debate.

Bush has been calling for a guest worker program as a way to deal with illegal
immigration for more than two years, but had remained passive as Congress
tackled the issue. Some lawmakers have been critical of Bush for not playing
more of a role during the Senate debate, in the hopes that his involvement could
break the deadlock.

On Monday, Bush came out strongly in favor of a guest worker program over the
law-and-order approach the House took, and on Tuesday he told the dozen
lawmakers he embraced the Senate's approach to a guest worker program.

Palm Beach Post Washington writer Larry Lipman contributed to this story.

- lrockwell@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              62 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STUDY FINDS VARIANCE IN JUDGES' ASYLUM RULINGS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration judges decline applications for asylum at vastly different rates
across the nation, directly challenging the government's commitment to apply the
law fairly and uniformly, according to a new study.

One judge in Miami turned down about 97 percent of asylum requests, while one in
New York rejected only 10 percent, said the analysis by the Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse, a nonpartisan research center at Syracuse
University in New York.

The report also found that immigrants from certain countries fare better than
others in requesting asylum. For example, 80 percent of asylum seekers from El
Salvador, Mexico and Haiti were denied, while only 30 percent of those from
Afghanistan and Myanmar were rejected.

The report analyzed data from nearly 300,000 cases from 1994 to early 2005. It
found that the median rate of denial for asylum by judges across the country was
65 percent.

The most stringent immigration judge from 2000 to 2005 was Mahlon F. Hanson in
Miami, who turned down 97 percent of the 1,118 asylum requests in his court.

At the other end of the spectrum, Judge Margaret McManus in New York rejected
only about 10 percent of 1,638 asylum requests.

The TRAC report says that its findings "directly challenge" the mission
statement of the Executive Office of Immigration Review, a branch of the
Department of Justice, which operates the immigration courts. The mission
statement says that the government is "committed to providing fair, expeditious,
and uniform application of the nation's immigration laws in all cases."

The report further says that the case-by-case analysis "appears to document long
standing, widespread, and systematic weaknesses in both the operation and
management of the court."

Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the immigration review office, said that
immigration judges adjudicate each asylum request on a case-by-case basis and
that applicants must prove that they suffered past persecution or have a
well-founded fear of future persecution because of race, religion, nationality,
political opinion or membership in a social group.

"The immigration judge cannot use discretion to grant asylum simply because the
respondent is a good person, or because the immigration judge feels sorry for
him/her," Komis said in a written statement.

The statement did not address specific judges and why their rates were extremely
high or low. But Komis did say that the discrepancies in rejection based on
country of origin were because the conditions in each country may differ
greatly.

Immigration groups and refugee advocates said that the discrepancy by country of
origin is to be expected.

For example, political persecution is not a major problem any more in El
Salvador, so it makes sense that fewer asylum applications would be granted to
people from that country compared with applicants from the Democratic Republic
of Congo, said Alexandra Wisotsky, staff attorney with the refugee protection
program at Human Rights First, a civil rights and refugee advocacy group.

But Wisotsky and other immigrant advocates said the differences from one judge
to another were troubling.

Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University, said that the
disparity between judges on asylum cases is 'substantially greater than the
differences between judges' decisions in criminal cases.

This year, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales ordered a review of the immigration
courts after a series of federal appeals court decisions finding fault with the
handling of immigration cases. The review is ongoing.

The report also found that asylum seekers from China made up the largest
contingent of cases, with 22 percent. Asylum seekers from Haiti and Colombia
were next, each with 9 percent.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              63 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 13, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SOBERS UP

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 400 words


Since 9/11, immigration judges have claimed wider powers to deport noncitizens
who have been convicted of breaking laws, often expanding definitions of
offenses and stretching interpretations to make their cases.

This week, a unanimous Supreme Court ruled that the government has gone too far
in defining drunken driving as a deportable "crime of violence," even when the
driver causes injuries. The decision allows a Haitian immigrant who was deported
two years ago to return to his home in Miami. Josue Leocal, a 47-year-old
construction worker, was a lawful permanent resident when he was deported after
completing a sentence for driving while drunk, running a red light and causing
an accident that injured two people. An appeals court upheld his deportation
last year and accepted the Bush administration's arguments that drunken driving
constitutes violent crime because even an offender's unintentional use of force
can be construed as violence.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist's opinion holds that the statute allowing
deportation of immigrants convicted of aggravated felonies does not include
crimes that involve negligent or accidental force. "A person would use . . .
physical force against another when pushing him," he wrote. "However, we would
not ordinarily say a person uses . . . physical force against another by
stumbling and falling into him." The justices rejected the argument that
deciding to drink and drive is an intentional choice to use violence. As
reprehensible as the behavior is, the government can't sell it as something it's
not.

The ruling does not limit how states choose to punish drunk drivers, nor does it
excuse their negligence. But it does restrain a federal government that has
claimed wide powers to deport immigrants since 1996, when the Clinton
administration started treating drunken-driving felonies as deportable, and the
Bush administration followed with an expansion of the principle to accelerate
deportations in the name of national security. An overreaching executive branch
has deported hundreds of immigrants for drunken-driving offenses and should
reverse itself and allow their return because of the high court's decision.

Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote that the government cannot "shoehorn" offenses
into statutory categories that don't fit. The offenders deserve punishment that
is appropriate to the legal definition, not political expediency.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              64 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GET COOKING ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 727 words


George W. Bush's first term began with high hopes for immigration reform.
Shortly after taking office, he visited Mexico's Vicente Fox, and the two
presidents seemed committed to working out something to control the flow of
migrants across their border.

Then 9/11 happened, and Mexico became less than an afterthought for an
administration that often was able to use immigrant and terrorist
interchangeably. The reform movement was over before it started.

The second Bush term rekindles the hope that evaporated three years ago. In
theory, the president should be able to deal with immigration without worrying
about some of the political trappings that worried him the last time. Reelection
and larger Republican majorities in Congress should make the always-volatile
issue a bit more approachable.

Secretary of State Colin Powell visited President Fox after the election, and
Mexico read the meeting as a signal that the United States was ready to get
serious about immigration reform. But translating reform into a common meaning
is already a problem.

President Fox favors a comprehensive overhaul that would allow millions of
Mexicans who work in the United States to obtain some form of legal status that
would protect them from deportation. He says he wants "the whole enchilada." The
administration is offering much less. President Bush is basing his idea of
reform on circular migration, under which Mexican workers would return home
after working for a U.S. employer. "We are taking little bites of the
enchilada," Mr. Powell said, "and not the whole enchilada at once."

Earlier this year, President Bush offered an empty enchilada. He proposed a
guest-worker plan that would give millions of undocumented workers legal status
by matching them with specific U.S. jobs. But the plan came with no details
about how it would work, and nothing matters much more in immigration policy
than details. Programs that deal with millions of people cannot run on
generalities alone, and the president was reluctant to refine his thinking on
the threshold of an election campaign, fearing erosion of the Republican
coalition.

The immigration debate, after all, has pulled some unlikely allies into both
sides of the GOP tent. The National Council of Catholic Bishops, farm groups and
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce favor a more liberal policy that grants workers
legal status. Evangelicals, strong conservatives and other base stalwarts want
tighter restrictions on immigration and nothing that remotely resembles amnesty.

It could be that reform comes out of the Senate instead of the White House. Sen.
Larry Craig, R-Idaho, is the chief sponsor of the Agricultural Job Opportunity,
Benefits and Security Act (AgJOBS), which would allow an incremental legal

path

for

hundreds

of

thou-

sands of immigrant agricultural workers to obtain green cards. Unlike the
president's ambiguous offering that would apply to all undocumented workers,
AgJOBS pertains only to agriculture and spells out specific rules and criteria
for legal status.

More than any other industry, agriculture is dependent on an undocumented,
largely migrant work force. At least 50 percent, and perhaps as many as 75
percent, of all farmworkers are illegal immigrants. AgJOBS principles that prove
themselves on the farms can transfer to factories, restaurants and construction
sites. It is the most promising, widely supported guest-worker model to date.
Sixty-three senators, enough to overcome a filibuster, have signed on as
sponsors, and Sen. Craig promises to push the bill to a vote next year.

There may be as many as 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States, with
about 8 million of them Mexicans. For security reasons alone, it makes sense to
bring these people into the light of a legal system that identifies them and
monitors their stay here.

The AgJOBS approach could turn out to be circular for some workers and linear
for others, depending on how well they satisfy requirements. The government
could deport immigrants who break the rules and prosecute employers who hire
illegals. Nobody is suggesting that AgJOBS is the whole enchilada for reform.
But it certainly qualifies as one of Mr. Powell's little bites that could help
satisfy the national hunger for a sensible immigration policy.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              65 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 25, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NATION'S SECURITY NEEDS, VALUES DEMAND IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 199 words


Thank you for Dan Moffett's column "Get cooking on immigration" (Sunday), which
places the spotlight again on the great need for immigration reform.

As an immigration attorney, the pain I see and hear on a daily basis is becoming
unbearable.

Day after day, I hear about the desperate needs of hard-working "illegal
immigrants," who are working jobs Americans do not want. Most of the time, there
is nothing I can do except give them hope that our country soon will realize,
three years after 9/11, that immigrants are not terrorists, and that the best
way to protect our homeland is to create legalization programs that will treat
them humanely. Our present immigration situation is becoming a human-rights
crisis.

We should be past the knee-jerk reaction of blaming the "foreigner" and the
Band-Aid solutions this reactive thinking has created. Immigration reform will
protect our homeland because legalization programs will create the best database
of those who are here and sift out those few who may be criminals or terrorists.
More important, immigration reform is needed to relight our national ethos -
which fear for the past few years understandably has blurred.

AILEEN JOSEPHS

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              66 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 6, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH TOUCHED NEW 'THIRD RAIL'

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 727 words


Historians will remember President Bush's State of the Union address for its
call to reform Social Security through personal investments and for its
optimistic assessment of the Iraq War.

It's hard to imagine a more contentious issue in the months ahead than those
two. Yet there is one: immigration.

Most Americans, after all, consider Social Security a problem that's in the
distant future, and they don't understand the mathematics of the system anyway.
The debate on Iraq has gone on for three years; most people already have taken
sides and will stay there until events change minds.

But 10 minutes into his speech, Mr. Bush spoke 92 words that are sure to touch
off a political firestorm in Congress and across the country:

"America's immigration system is also outdated, unsuited to the needs of our
economy and to the values of our country. We should not be content with laws
that punish hardworking people who want only to provide for their families, and
deny businesses willing workers, and invite chaos at our borders.

"It is time for an immigration policy that permits temporary guest workers to
fill jobs Americans will not take, that rejects amnesty, that tells us who is
entering and leaving our country, and that closes the border to drug dealers and
terrorists."

This is a position that could have an impact in Jupiter, where the town council
must decide whether to allow immigrants, many of them illegal, a work center
where they can find jobs. It will resonate in Lake Worth, where police retreated
last week from an ill-conceived plan to crack down against employers who hire
undocumented workers. Migrant workers in Pahokee and nannies in Palm Beach, and
their employers, have a stake in the president's proposal.

Mr. Bush's words will provoke debate in places such as Iowa, which was so short
of laborers that the state started a program to recruit immigrants. Border
states such as Arizona and Texas, where thousands of Mexicans and Latin
Americans cross illegally, will be watching the president's progress. So will
California, which has about 2.5 million illegal immigrants, more than any other
state, and Florida, with about 1 million.

The president is calling for the most sweeping change in U.S. immigration policy
in 20 years. The concept of guest worker programs that allow immigrants to come
to the country and work temporarily is nothing new. All previous attempts,
however, have failed because of their details. Programs have been too complex to
be practical, or too one-sided to prevent abuses of workers.

More than 60 conservative lawmakers in the U.S. House who support Mr. Bush on
almost everything else are lined up to stop him on immigration reform. They
believe that his idea is amnesty in disguise and that it will encourage more
illegal migration and further compromise border security. A strong core of Bush
advocates in the Senate, led by Republican John McCain of Arizona, argues that
foreign labor is essential to the economy and that immigrants should have a
legal path to come here and fill the jobs Americans do not want. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and many other business groups agree. Supporters argue that,
run correctly, a guest worker program would enhance security, not undermine it.

It again will come down to details. Mr. Bush can't present something that looks
like amnesty, yet he also can't offer immigrants no payoff for playing by the
rules. He has to devise a secure system that monitors who's here, and yet he has
to make it manageable. He has to ensure that employers can hire the workers they
need without designing a vehicle for exploitation. Paranoia, hyperbole and
political posturing complicate it all.

For more than two decades, the federal government has abdicated its
responsibility to control the flow of migrants across U.S. borders and ignored
the economic realities of a nation that can't fill the jobs it creates. The
federal failure has forced state and local governments to perform duties beyond
their resources and ability to enforce.

President Bush has invited the nation to engage in an honest dialogue about
immigration, a supremely contentious undertaking. The Jupiter Town Council, cops
in Lake Worth and slaughterhouse workers in Iowa - they all will have something
to say about this.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              67 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 12, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS PROTEST, CALL IMMIGRATION POLICIES UNFAIR

BYLINE: By WILLIAM COOPER JR. Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The Rev. Roland Desormeaux, clad in a clergy collar, stood on a makeshift stage
on Clematis Street, leading some 60 Haitian protesters in a call and response.

"What do we want?" boomed the priest's voice through a loudspeaker atop a van.

"Justice!" the group roared back.

Despite their plea, Haitian leaders said Friday, justice has been slow and the
federal government's move to deport them has been swift.

Specifically, local Haitians claim that U.S. immigration officials have recently
targeted them, often coming in the wee hours of the night to execute deportation
orders.

"This is not right," said Philippe "Bob" Louis Jeune, president of Haitian
Citizen United Taskforce, which organized Friday's protest. "Haitian people come
here for a better life, but now we feel unsafe."

Louis Jeune is on a mission to collect 10,000 signatures to send to President
Bush by March.

His group wants immigration laws changed to give Haitians the same protection
under the law as other groups such as Cuban refugees.

Haitian leaders want Bush to support a temporary protection status for Haitians,
which allows illegals to stay and work in the country without fear of
deportation.

Given the unrest in Haiti, Haitian leaders feel its too dangerous to return
refugees to their homeland.

Barbara Gonzales, spokeswoman with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's
Immigration and Customs Enforcement section, said federal immigration officials
are only enforcing the law.

No group has been singled out, but those who are being deported have had their
day in court before an immigration judge, she said.

"We enforce the laws evenly across the board," Gonzales said. "Everyone has
their due process rights under the law."

Federal figures show deportations have dropped, she said. From Oct. 1, 2002, to
Sept. 30, 2003, there were 1,019 Haitians deported, she said.

A year later, for the same time period, the figure was 730 removals, according
to Gonzales.

Still, leaders such as Desormeaux contend there is panic in the Haitian
community, regardless of what the numbers show.

In fact, the fear is reflected in his church, Our Lady of Perpetual Church in
Delray Beach, where attendance has dropped because parishioners fear immigration
officials will remove them during the worship service.

"Our families are suffering," Roland said. "We just can't take it anymore."

- bill_cooper@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              68 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 11, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRITISH MAN WAITS FOR DAY IN COURT

BYLINE: By J. CHRISTOPHER HAIN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 927 words


Paul Flanders thought he'd already had his day in court - five years ago.

But in the strange world of U.S. immigration law, today marks his 93rd day in
jail for a crime for which he was never sentenced to jail.

An English citizen living in the United States since 1990, Flanders has been
jailed at Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County since Dec. 8, awaiting a
hearing on whether he should be deported for his past crime.

The offense: charging $390.19 worth of phone calls in 1998 to a corporate phone
card after he no longer worked for the West Palm Beach company that owned the
card.

Flanders said he thought the company was going to bill him for the phone
charges. But he eventually pleaded "no contest" in 2000 to a felony charge for
using the card. He paid restitution totaling $700. He performed 50 hours of
community service. And he served 18 months' probation.

But in November, while returning from a European vacation with his girlfriend,
Flanders was stopped at the airport, stripped of his passport and green card and
told to come in for an interview. At the interview on Dec. 8, he was arrested
and taken to Krome where he's awaiting a Thursday court hearing.

"All of a sudden, I become a flight risk and a danger to society," said Flanders
by phone from Krome. "It doesn't make any sense."

Even the owner of the company Flanders defrauded is now coming to his defense,
outraged that such a petty crime has the Englishman caught in immigration jail -
and potentially sent back to England.

"I think he's already been punished enough," said Chuck Poole, co-owner of
Voiceware Systems.

Poole testified two weeks ago at Flanders' first hearing before an immigration
judge.

"I believe you do a crime, you face the penalty and move on with your life,"
Poole said. "The guy used a phone card for a few hundred dollars."

Flanders, however, is caught by the harsh immigration laws passed by Congress in
1996 and the increased enforcement since Sept. 11, 2001.

"There was certain political currency in piling it on noncitizens and making the
deportation laws as tough as possible," said Dan Kesselbrenner, executive
director of the National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers' Guild.

"It's more for political considerations than for whether the laws actually
benefited the country or not."

The 1996 laws expanded the crimes for which noncitizens can be deported.

A spokesperson for the agency administering immigration court acknowledges the
1996 laws have caused problems for many people.

"Virtually any criminal activity other than the most petty crimes and
misdemeanors can lead to deportation," said Elaine Komis, spokeswoman for the
U.S. Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review. "I know
that's caused difficult situations. It could be a crime that they committed
years ago."

But Komis said her agency doesn't decide whether to bring deportation charges
for minor crimes, or whether to lock someone up for minor crimes while they wait
deportation. The Department of Homeland Security makes that call, she said.

But a Homeland Security spokesperson shifted the responsibility right back to
the judges in immigration court. Nina Pruneda, spokeswoman for the department's
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Homeland Security just brings the
charges.

"If a person commits a petty theft, it's decided on a case-by-case basis,"
Pruneda said. "That decision lies on the immigration judge."

But that sets up a system in which murderers and shoplifters get the same
treatment until a final judgment is made, Kesselbrenner said.

"There's something wrong with a system that pushes people that are that
different into that same box," Kesselbrenner said.

Before Flanders was put in that box, he was living with his girlfriend in
Wellington on the weekends and working during the week as a chef aboard a
265-foot, 20-passenger luxury yacht out of Fort Pierce.

Now, he spends his days in an orange jumpsuit, eating little more than rice and
beans, sleeping five hours and trying to get help with his case.

In addition to hoping an immigration judge decides Thursday he can stay in the
U.S., he's also looking for help from the Palm Beach County Circuit Court.

One of Flanders' problems is that he has two felonies on his record from the
calling card incident. But a transcript of his case shows he pleaded to only one
felony. The second felony for some reason remained on his final judgment.

"At the time it didn't make much of a difference because the sentence was the
same," said Flanders' attorney, Jill Sheldon of Miami, "but for immigration it
can make a huge difference."

It essentially makes him easier to detain and more deportable. The second charge
was for altering a computer record to change the calling card from a $20 or $30
limited card to an unlimited calling card.

But even Poole, from the company that owned the card and sought charges against
Flanders, said he never knew who changed the calling card to unlimited.

"In my affidavit to the police department, I never asserted that he did it,"
Poole said.

So Flanders has appealed to the circuit court to have that charge dropped from
his record.

He said he admits guilt for using the card, for what he said was his failure to
get a contract in writing to use the card. But he also feels he shouldn't be
sitting in jail for a crime he's already paid for.

"People are languishing in detention way longer than they should be," he said.
"It's no longer innocent until proven guilty. It's guilty until proven
innocent."

Researcher Krista Pegnetter contributed to this story.

chris_hain@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Paul Flanders: of England was jailed after returning from Europe because of an
old offense. (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              69 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 9, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO BACKDOOR ID POLICY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 369 words


Americans deserve a thoughtful debate over whether national identification cards
are a good idea, not Congress making the decision through the back door by
taking over the states' driver licensing.

Last week, House Republicans approved a provision - attached to a supplemental
spending bill for Iraq - that would put unreasonable requirements on how states
issue licenses. The legislation, which the Senate will consider this week,
requires each state to verify applicants' citizenship or immigration status.
Also, states would have to make copies of immigration documents submitted and
retain a digital photo of each applicant. Supporters, led by Rep. James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., say their so-called Real ID provision will protect the
country against terrorists and strike a blow against illegal immigration. In
fact, the rules would threaten Americans' privacy and place a needless burden
the states.

Standardized driver licenses held in a central database would amount to national
ID cards. Rep. Sensenbrenner and his backers haven't disclosed how they would
secure this database or manage access. With identity theft cases growing, it's
hardly time to collect and store in one place so much vital information. Until
now, the federal government has had the good sense to leave driver licenses to
the states, which has worked well for nearly a century.

In effect, the proposed requirements would federalize state workers and cast
them into roles for which they have no training. What does a motor vehicle
office employee know about immigration law? How are state employees supposed to
verify information that even federal employees would find hard to check? The
consequence for the states would be finding a way to pay for all the new
responsibility Congress intends to inflict on them. As usual, there's no plan to
send federal money.

Rep. Sensenbrenner taps 9/11 fear to make his case, saying that driver licenses
helped the terrorists carry out the attacks. In truth, while nine of the 19
hijackers had licenses, the real problem was fraudulent passports and visas the
hijackers used to get into the country. Those are federal responsibilities. The
federal government should fix itself and leave the states alone.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              70 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 20, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOLEY TOUTS CUSTOMS KIOSKS FOR FLA. BOATERS

BYLINE: By WANGUI NJUGUNA Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Allowing Florida boaters to use an electronic check-in system rather than having
to appear in person before immigration officials would ease their entry from
foreign ports, Rep. Mark Foley told a House panel Wednesday.

Recreational boaters now must appear before immigration officers and call the
Customs Service upon reentry into Florida waters, according to Department of
Homeland Security requirements implemented two years ago. Since the immigration
office is closed on weekends, boaters traveling during those times must report
the following Monday.

The system hampers law-abiding boaters who report to authorities on their own
while not addressing those who do not comply with the law at all, said Foley,
R-Jupiter.

Under his bill, U.S. citizens and permanent residents would use a videophone
system at 13 points of entries along a 200-mile coastline between Sebastian and
Miami. The system consists of a monitor, a phone with a two-way video and audio
communication link, a camera viewing the traveler's face and a document camera
to read identification documents.

American boaters returning from the Canadian border in the Great Lakes and St.
Lawrence Seaway use the system as an alternative to appearing in person.

Face-to-face reporting is "burdensome" because it means car rental, long drives
to the nearest seaport or airport and long waits in lines. About 70 percent of
Florida boaters ignore the new rules in order to avoid missing work or school,
Foley said.

The current rules do not provide border security or reduce terrorism on
Florida's waterways because not all boaters comply, he said.

"Osama bin Laden and drug smugglers are not going to voluntarily go" to the
immigration officers, he said. "If the law is designed for security, then it
fails on its face."

A more effective way to patrol boats entering the state is to search them at sea
and on coastal waters before they enter a Florida inlet, he said.

While not opposed to the videophone system, Robert Jacksta, director of Border
Security and Facilitation, said his agency is concerned the videophones cannot
verify a person's identity. Biometric measures such as finger printing should be
added to the use of videophones, he said.

wnjuguna@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              71 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 21, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WOMAN, 62, LEARNS SHE'S NEVER BEEN U.S. CITIZEN

BYLINE: By JIM ASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1128 words


After more than five years of fighting the federal bureaucracy, 62-year-old
Marie Hagan remains a woman without a country.

Hagan, who lives in Okeechobee, arrived in the United States a 13-month-old
infant, the daughter of a Canadian mother and an American father. She grew up,
married and had children, never questioning her American citizenship.

No one in the government did either, until the day in 1998 when she applied to
change her name on her Social Security card and she was told she isn't who she
thinks she is.

The dominoes have been tumbling ever since.

"I never in my wildest dreams thought it would come to this," Hagan said. "I
have always thought I was an American citizen."

What a Social Security official uncovered was a 61-year-old paperwork blunder
that left her, at least in the eyes of U.S. immigration officials, a noncitizen.

Immigration law generally allows children of U.S. citizens to claim citizenship,
even when the children are born abroad. Hagan was born in Toronto and entered
the U.S. under her mother's Canadian visa.

Even though Hagan's father was a U.S. citizen, the law as it was then written
required him to prove that he lived in the U.S. 10 years before Hagan's birth,
five of those before he was 16, to confer his U.S. citizenship on his daughter.

Hagan says her father met the requirements, but he never filed the paperwork.

"I wish my parents would have told me," Hagan said.

Hagan does not face deportation, but living in the gray area is its own special
nightmare. Hagan is worried that after a lifetime of work, mostly as a regional
sales manager for large U.S. companies, she may lose her Social Security
benefits.

The crisis grew more acute this month when Hagan lost her job as a personal
banker. Her boss told her it was because she made computer data-entry errors,
mistakes she says never threatened customer or bank accounts. Hagan suspects her
firing had more to do with her immigration status.

Hagan went to file for unemployment compensation but stopped when she saw a
warning that noncitizen applicants could be prosecuted.

"I spoke with my attorney's paralegal, and he said I shouldn't file for now,"
Hagan said. "This has become enormously frustrating."

Without proof that she filed for unemployment compensation, Hagan can't qualify
for insurance benefits that pay her mortgage while she is out of work. Widowed
in 1998, she worries daily about losing her home.

"I'm alone. I have nobody else to pay my bills," Hagan said.

Long, slow red-tape battle

Even a trip to the polls is fraught with peril. Hagan could be prosecuted for
voting, although immigration officials say it is unlikely a state attorney would
pursue charges. If charges were filed, prosecutors would have to prove she
knowingly violated the law before her questionable status came to light.

Going up against the full force of the U.S. government has been a civics lesson
in slow motion. Hagan enlisted the help of powerful U.S. senators and dug
through family archives. Her effort centered on reconstructing her father's
colorful life.

A patriotic soul, Walter Moen's claim to fame was serving as a chauffeur and
physical therapist to the great American songwriter Oscar Hammerstein. Moen even
earned mention in Getting to Know Him, a popular Hammerstein biography.

The New York native left the United States in 1940, nearly a year before Pearl
Harbor, to enlist in the Norwegian Air Force. He trained at a military base in
Canada, where he met and married Hagan's mother.

Hagan found a copy of Moen's discharge papers from the Norwegian Air Force that
list him as an American citizen and note that he "never swore allegiance to the
King of Norway."

Hagan also unearthed a 1930 U.S. Census listing her father and grandfather.

But that and reams of other documents have failed to sway immigration officials,
who continue to insist on documentation proving Moen lived continuously in the
United States 10 years before 1940. Hagan says school records could pin it down,
but officials in New York recently told her the state does not keep such records
from prior to 1940.

Hagan has been in contact with U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida and Congressman
Mark Foley of North Palm Beach, as well as Bob Graham when he was Florida's
other U.S. senator. A former resident of Doylestown, Pa., Hagan also sought help
from U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

All to little satisfaction.

This year, Hagan lost an appeal challenging the denial of her application for a
certificate of U.S. citizenship, even though a congressional staff member
assured her she would be approved. Immigration officials still consider her case
open, should she come up with the proof they need to satisfy the law.

But her options are dwindling.

She could apply for permanent U.S. residency and win a green card by asking one
of her children to sponsor her as an "alien relative."

She could also claim continuous U.S. residency prior to Jan. 1, 1972, and win
permanent residency status that way. Both options would require her to live in
the U.S. for five more years before applying for full citizenship.

Brian Gulley, a spokesman for Nelson, said staff researchers have been digging
into the case and are pinning their hopes on a contact at the Norwegian Embassy
who might be able to provide Moen's passport.

"The (U.S.) State Department is telling us that is something that might be
helpful," Gulley said. "This can be very tedious. With a government agency, you
have to have documentation, and this case goes back 60 years. You just don't see
something like this every day."

'Unusual, not unheard of'

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, an
arm of the Department of Homeland Security, said he could not comment on
individual cases because of privacy laws.

"It's very unusual, but not unheard of, for someone to discover something like
this so late in life," Strassberger said. "I guess the lesson here is to make
sure you file with the U.S. Embassy when your children are born abroad."

Some of the most heart-rending cases, Strassberger said, involve foreign
children adopted as infants by U.S. parents who don't discover their lack of
U.S. citizenship until they have a scrape with the law.

"Suddenly you have someone who has never lived in their home country, and
doesn't even speak the language, facing deportation," he said.

Nelson's staff shares Hagan's frustration.

However, Gulley said Nelson would be hesitant to sponsor special legislation
granting Hagan citizenship. Nelson's office is flooded weekly with hundreds of
immigration requests, Gulley said, and Nelson doesn't want to stir a hornet's
nest.

"It would be almost a tragedy for something like this to happen because of red
tape," Gulley said.

jim_ash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Marie Hagan: Daughter of a Canadian mother and an American father. 2.
(B&W) Family photo Marie Hagan's father, Walter Moen, left the U.S. in 1940 to
join the Norwegian Air Force. He met Hagan's mother in Canada.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              72 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 3, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

62-YEAR WAIT ENDS: OKEECHOBEE WOMAN TO GET CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By EVE SAMPLES and JIM ASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 635 words


Marie Hagan learned Thursday you can go home again - it just might take 62
years.

After a lifetime as a noncitizen in the eyes of U.S. immigration officials, the
62-year-old Okeechobee woman today will receive the certificate of citizenship
she always knew she deserved.

U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson's office announced Thursday that, with help from the
deputy secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the glitch that has
kept Hagan from becoming a citizen has been resolved.

"I knew in my heart that it was going to work out . . . because I've been a
citizen all this time," Hagan said. "It was just a matter of finding the right
paperwork."

The news, which Hagan greeted with relief and elation, means she can apply for
unemployment, vote legally and, eventually, collect Social Security - rights she
took for granted until 1998, when she learned the federal government didn't
consider her a citizen.

The daughter of a Canadian mother and an American father, Hagan said she had to
change her Social Security card before she could cash a $255 survivor's benefit
when her husband died in 1998. The seemingly simple act triggered a bureaucratic
avalanche.

Hagan was born in Toronto and entered the United States under her mother's
Canadian visa when she was 13 months old. Although her father was a citizen, the
law at the time required him to prove he lived in the United States for 10 years
before Hagan's birth - five of them before he was 16 - for his daughter to
become a citizen.

Hagan has maintained that her father met those requirements, but he never filed
the paperwork. Immigration officials denied Hagan's requests for citizenship.

"Nobody should have to go through what I've gone through for the last seven
years," she said.

The worst part was the fear, she explained. Hagan lost her job as a personal
banker last month and, as a noncitizen, she couldn't collect unemployment.

The thoughts that consumed her: "How am I going to live? What's going to happen
to me with no income?"

Hagan contacted Nelson's office in early April.

When the office didn't make much headway on the case, Nelson put in a call to
Michael Jackson, deputy secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, which
oversees immigration.

The senator's staff sent Jackson a package of information on the case, including
a story about Hagan's plight published in The Palm Beach Post on May 21, Nelson
spokesman Dan McLaughlin said.

"We spent several weeks banging our head against the same wall she'd been
hitting for five years or more," McLaughlin said. "And this was a case that
seemed so clear-cut and so crying out for some common sense."

On Thursday morning, Nelson's office got a call saying the matter had been
resolved and Hagan would receive her citizenship.

Hagan is scheduled today to take her oath in Miami and receive her citizenship
certificate, which will date back to her birthday: June 17, 1942. Her four
children intend to be with her, she said.

"My daughter Sandy, she's been writing and faxing to the president twice a day
every day," Hagan said, adding that the fight for her citizenship had become a
family affair.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, an
arm of the Department of Homeland Security, said nobody was more pleased than
his colleagues to close the book on Hagan's saga.

"When you get down to it, USCIS is all about helping people fulfil their dreams
of becoming U.S. citizens," he said. "This was an unusual case, to say the
least."

Nelson's staff and the recent article helped put Hagan's plight on the front
burner, Strassberger said.

"The story helped bring it to our attention," he said. "The lesson in all of
this is if you have a child born abroad, make sure you deal with the citizenship
issue now, because it's awfully hard to do 60 years later."

eve_samples@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Marie Hagan (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              73 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 81 words


An immigration judge postponed a hearing for Steven Altidor, the West Palm Beach
man who faces deportation to Haiti, a country he has never seen.

The judge in Bradenton, where Altidor is detained, agreed to cancel Monday's
hearing because his attorney was not feeling well. Altidor was born in the
Bahamas to Haitian parents, but has lived in West Palm Beach since he was 4 or 5
years old. The Bahamas does not accept him as a citizen, so the United States is
seeking to deport him to Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              74 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WEST PALM MAN ORDERED TO A LAND HE'S NEVER SEEN

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 237 words


An immigration judge has ruled that a man who has lived in West Palm Beach most
of his life should be deported to Haiti, a country he has never seen.

Steven Altidor, 24, was born in the Bahamas and moved with his family to Palm
Beach County when he was 4 or 5 years old.

Though he can't remember any home but Florida, his right to stay in the U.S. was
revoked when he beat a man and stole his wallet, then violated his probation.

The U.S. originally planned to deport him to the Bahamas, but that country does
not consider him a citizen because both of his parents were born in Haiti.

In order to stop Altidor's deportation, attorney Jessica Zagier of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center had to prove her client is likely to be killed,
persecuted or tortured in Haiti.

Immigration Judge Gail Padgett ruled that Altidor's case does not meet that
standard, and denied his request to stay.

Altidor's father Wilner worries about what could happen to his son in Haiti, a
country he left for a better life several decades ago.

Haiti's government jails all criminal deportees indefinitely, often under
terrible conditions, even if, like Altidor, they have already served their
sentences in the U.S.

"I feel so bad," Wilner Altidor said Friday. "They say that they are going to
send him to Haiti. But he does not know Haiti."

Steven Altidor will stay in a Bradenton detention center until his appeal is
decided.

kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Steven Altidor (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              75 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN'S DEPORTATION TEARS FAMILY APART

BYLINE: Emily J. Minor

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 615 words


Candace Jean, an immigration attorney in Miami, wants me to know this one
important thing.

"This is not an isolated case," she says. "I have other husbands, other
fathers."

But today it's Wilbert Benoit, his wife, and their two young boys.

Benoit. Age 35. Responsible provider, decent man of Christian faith. It seems
Benoit was taken from his family - whisked away from outside his Lantana
apartment by immigration officials - two days after the Fourth of July.

It was early in the morning, before even an inkling of first light.

"They just came here and waited for him," said his wife, Hermanise, 30. "And
when he got out, I guess they asked him for his passport. He didn't have it. So
they took him."

Just like that.

When I first heard this, this story of a man who was suddenly shipped back to
Haiti after living here, obediently, for 11 years, I figured there was more to
it.

Surely Benoit did something wrong, something stupid, something to draw attention
to himself.

It appears, though, the truth is much bleaker. After living and working here
since 1994 - marrying, starting a family, volunteering in his church - Benoit's
good fortune simply expired on that early July morning.

Some immigration team apparently looked at a computer list, saw his deportation
order, and set out in the dark to pick up this stranger with the good life.

"It happens all the time," said Jean, who has been working with immigrants in
South Florida since 1982.

"His only crime is that he is black and Haitian."

After her husband was whisked away that awful day, Hermanise went to Jean's
office in Miami and hired her to help. Jean said she hurried over to the Krome
detention center to meet Benoit, realizing he might be deported rather quickly.

"He was traumatized, just heartbroken," she said. "He was so worried about his
family."

The couple has two boys, William, almost 3, and Herman, barely 1. Wilbert Benoit
never saw them after he left for work that Wednesday morning.

He was sent back to Port au Prince on July 29. Hermanise said he is living there
with his sister and has told her, by phone, it is too dangerous for her to
visit.

Born in Haiti, Benoit applied for asylum when he first got to America, Jean
said.

"It was the usual," Jean said. "His asylum was denied. Very few Haitians win
asylum, and that's the other tragedy."

As time went on, and Benoit's first attorney told him she was working on an
appeal, Hermanise and Wilbert met at church - love at first sight, she says.
They married, had one baby, then another. He worked full-time; she stayed home
with the children, occasionally taking a part-time job to help the two make ends
meet.

For five years, they lived the kind of dual life that silently defines so many
of our Haitian neighbors.

On one hand, Wilbert Benoit was productive and happy, living and loving, making
dreams come true.

On the other hand, the deportation papers were always in the desk drawer.

Hermanise, who came here as a young girl and is a U.S. citizen, said an attempt
to legalize Wilbert's standing after their marriage in 2000 also failed.

And so. They waited. For something good to happen.

Until something bad did.

For Hermanise, the separation is as you might imagine: a 2005 American
nightmare. The children were inseparable from their father, she said, and they
can't understand why he's gone. She will go to work next week as an intake
counselor for the Department of Children and Families. Minimum wage. Their
church is helping as best they can.

"To tell you the truth, I never really dreamed this could happen," Hermanise
said Wednesday.

I guess sometimes it's just easier to kiss the kids, pay the bills, be happy.

I guess some people would call that hope.

emily_minor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer Hermanise Benoit is struggling to support
her sons Herman, 1, and William, 3, after her husband, Wilbert, was deported to
Haiti in July. She's landed a minimum-wage state job and receives some help from
her church. Wilbert Benoit had been in the U.S. for 11 years, but his efforts to
obtain legal status had failed. 2. Wilbert Benoit (mug) worked hard, met his
wife at church, raised a family. Then he was whisked away before dawn.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              76 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CNN ANCHOR DOBBS TAKES IMMIGRATION CRUSADE TO NBC

BYLINE: By MARK SCHWED Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 863 words


His critics call him an obnoxious pit bull. A raving ratings hound. A racist.
Everything, it seems, but a journalist.

Lou Dobbs, anchor and managing editor of CNN's Lou Dobbs Tonight, has for more
than a year thrust himself directly into the firestorm of the debate over
illegal immigration.

But this week, as hundreds of thousands of demonstrators hit the streets to
protest, he took his one-man campaign one step further, venturing from his CNN
desk to appear on NBC's Today to fiercely attack an immigration bill passed by
the Senate Judiciary Committee.

A newsman being used as an expert by a competing news organization? What's going
on here?

Quite simply, Dobbs has made immigration reform his baby, working to shape the
national debate as an advocate for reform.

Almost every night, he lays bare his ire in an ongoing series titled Broken
Borders, skewering all those with whom he disagrees: President Bush, Mexican
President Vicente Fox, Republicans and Democrats in Congress, labor unions,
corporations, Latino activist organizations, even the Catholic Church.

His guests include people who represent the entire spectrum of views on
immigration.

Yet Dobbs, a Harvard graduate who once was reprimanded by CNN honchos for making
promotional videos for Wall Street firms he covered on his business show
Moneyline, doesn't just politely listen. He won't be silenced.

"The truth is that U.S. immigration policy is a tragic joke at the expense of
hard-working middle-class Americans," he says.

Or: "President Bush missed a serious opportunity to show the country that he is
finally committed to solving our nation's ever worsening border emergency."

Or: "We want the current administration and both political parties to take this
problem seriously, to enforce the laws already on the books and to create a
national immigration policy that will secure both our borders and a healthy
future for our country."

His crusade has won him praise (the Eugene Katz Award for Excellence in the
Coverage of Immigration from the Center for Immigration Studies), boosted
ratings (up 28 percent since he started the show in 2003), and made him one of
CNN's biggest stars (just note the prominence of his name on the network's Web
site).

But there is also criticism.

Former Nightline anchor Ted Koppel, one of the most respected broadcast
journalists in America, has said that anchors such as Dobbs who mix commentary
with news should not call themselves journalists.

Even Dan Gainor, a former managing editor of Congressional Quarterly now at the
conservative watchdog group Media Research Center, thinks Dobbs has crossed the
line.

"He and I have different views about what journalists are supposed to do,"
Gainor told The Associated Press. "To me, you're either an advocate or a
journalist. You shouldn't pretend to be both."

Dobbs sweeps aside such pronouncements. He says his mission is simple: to tell
the truth, whether people like it or not.

"I believe the issues are too important to feign any kind of neutrality or
pretend to some objectivity that simply doesn't exist," he told AP. "I'm not one
of those journalists who's interested in he-said-she-said journalism. You know
as a journalist, the truth is not about fair and balanced."

That, of course, is an obvious slap at Fox News Channel, the top-rated 24-hour
cable outlet fronted by such in-your-face commentators as Bill O'Reilly and Sean
Hannity.

But the reality is that many of today's biggest cable news stars share one
characteristic - - they violate the cardinal rule of Journalism 101: Thou shall
not express your opinion.

Whether it's Nancy Grace railing against criminals on CNN's Headline News,
O'Reilly lambasting "anti-Christians" in the "war on Christmas," or Keith
Olbermann lampooning O'Reilly on MSNBC, these anchors know that speaking their
mind is what viewers want.

These days, it seems clear that in the highly competitive world of cable TV
news, an anchor who doesn't rant doesn't rate.

mark_schwed@pbpost.com

On the Web

Lou Dobbs posted this on cnn.com on Monday:

The following is one of my favorite thoughts on the issue of immigration. It's
from President Theodore Roosevelt in a letter to the American Defense Society in
1919, 10 years after his presidency.

- Lou Dobbs

'In the first place we should insist that if the immigrant who comes here in
good faith becomes an American and assimilates himself to us, he shall be
treated on an exact equality with everyone else, for it is an outrage to
discriminate against any such man because of creed, or birthplace, or origin.
But this is predicated upon the man's becoming in very fact an American, and
nothing but an American. . . .

'There can be no divided allegiance here. Any man who says he is an American,
but something else also, isn't an American at all. We have room for but one
flag, the American flag, and this excludes the red flag, which symbolizes all
wars against liberty and civilization, just as much as it excludes any foreign
flag of a nation to which we are hostile. . . . We have room for but one
language here, and that is the English language. . . . And we have room for but
one sole loyalty and that is a loyalty to the American people.'

- Theodore Roosevelt, 1919

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 CNN file photo Lou Dobbs went on the Today show this week to criticize the
Senate's proposed immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              77 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOCAL RALLIES TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR BILLS AIDING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 383 words


As Congress debates immigration reform, organizers of two upcoming local rallies
hope to show support for measures that would make it easier for illegal
immigrants to lawfully live and work in the U.S.

The demonstrations are planned for Friday afternoon in West Palm Beach and
Monday morning in Lake Worth.

"They come for a better life, for the American dream. This country is built by
the immigrants," said Bob Louis-Jeune of the Haitian Citizen United Force, one
of the lead organizers of Friday's rally on Clematis Street in West Palm Beach.
The group told police it expects 500 people from 4 to 7 p.m.

Louis-Jeune, who estimates there are as many as 20,000 Haitians illegally in
Palm Beach County, said Congress should take steps to keep America secure while
easing the process for immigrants to remain in the country legally.

Organizers of the Lake Worth rally, scheduled for 10 a.m. Monday at city hall,
say measures focused only on tougher enforcement are "immoral and dangerous."

The Lake Worth rally is one of seven scheduled in Florida on Monday as part of a
"national day of action for immigrant justice."

Representatives of area churches and community centers, as well as local radio
disc jockeys, are trying to mobilize people in Palm Beach County to participate.

"There's a lot of emotion around this debate because the immigrant system is
broken," said Christine Jones, a coordinator with the Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now, which helped organize the rallies.

The U.S. House of Representatives in December passed a bill that calls for
tougher enforcement to curb illegal immigration. The Senate is considering
legislation ranging from a House-style bill to a measure that would set up a
six-year process for illegal immigrants to become legal permanent residents if
they work, pay fines and back taxes, clear a criminal background check and learn
English.

"We believe that immigrants in Florida work hard and are part of our community.
The best solution is to find a way to integrate them and secure our borders,"
said David Skovholt, assistant director of the Florida Immigrant Coalition.
Skovholt said estimates from other groups suggest there are as many as 900,000
illegal immigrants in Florida.

Staff writer Pam Perez contributed to this story.

george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              78 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATOR SAYS PROTESTING HISPANICS SHOULD LEAVE FOREIGN FLAGS HOME

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Mel Martinez has some advice for Hispanic demonstrators protesting
immigration legislation in Congress: Leave the foreign flags at home.

"I think it's terrible. I think it's a very mixed message," Martinez, R-Fla.,
told reporters Friday when asked about demonstrations that have featured
protesters carrying flags from Mexico, Guatemala and other Latin American
countries.

"I think it's fine for people to express themselves, but if what this is about .
. . is about the opportunity to be in America, to be a resident of America, to
work in America, and ultimately to be a citizen of America, they need to be
carrying American flags."

Noting that more demonstrations are planned this weekend, Martinez said, "It is
my hope they won't be the kinds of things that will be polarizing and divisive."

Previous demonstrations in which students in some cities chanted "Mexico,
Mexico" and waved Mexican flags touched off a wave of criticism and were seen as
counterproductive by some supporters of legislation to allow millions of illegal
immigrants to remain in the United States.

Martinez, the first Cuban-born member of the U.S. Senate and a key player in
pushing for a comprehensive immigration bill, said he wasn't trying to diminish
people's pride in their heritage.

"On the 17th of March, everybody's Irish, and on Cinco de Mayo (May 5) we all
wear a big Mexican hat and drink margaritas," he said. "This is about a very
profound discussion of what it is to be an American."

Hispanic community leaders "would do well to make sure that these are
pro-American demonstrations of wanting opportunity . . . but that they are
expressed in a way that is constant with the message that people need to be
given an opportunity to become an American," Martinez said.

Hispanic leaders have recognized the backlash caused by recent flag-waving
protests. Preparing for a demonstration in Dallas expected to draw 20,000 people
on Sunday, Domingo Garcia, national chairman of the civil rights branch of the
League of United Latin American Citizens, urged demonstrators to wear white
shirts and carry American flags.

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
  Mel Martinez (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              79 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RALLY FOR FAIR SHAKE

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The flags were American and the protest signs were mostly in English as local
immigrants took to the streets Friday to call for fair treatment from Congress.

"We need to show the American people that we love the United States," explained
Jose Cerrato, one of the organizers of the rally that drew more than 300 people
to the downtown federal building. "We respect the U.S. Constitution."

"We are all Americans," read a huge banner held by a Haitian, a Peruvian and
three Hondurans.

But those in the crowd made clear their grievances against rules that deny work
permits and driver licenses to undocumented immigrants.

"Don't confuse us with the terrorists," said Brendy Gutierrez, 26, speaking from
the bed of a pickup truck used as the rally's podium. "We are here in peace to
work and make this country even greater than it is."

Addressing the crowd in both English and Spanish, the Guatemala-born Gutierrez
said immigrants want only to advance economically and live in harmony with U.S.
laws.

Friday's rally is one of dozens being held around the country as the U.S.
Congress debates immigration reforms to deal with the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in the country.

A march for "fair immigration reform" is scheduled for 10 a.m. Monday in
downtown Lake Worth.

"We are 12 million people who are just asking to be able to live in peace and to
sleep without fear at night," said the Rev. German Moreno of the Community of
Faith church in Palm Springs.

Moreno told the gathering Friday that undocumented immigrants must apologize for
driving on U.S. highways without driver licenses or insurance. But he added:
"It's not our fault. That's why we are here today asking for legal status."

The rally was sponsored by Haitian and Central American community organizations,
but the language barriers between the two groups fell when a Haitian organizer
started a protest chant in Spanish.

"Si se puede! (Yes, we can!)," repeated Philippe "Bob" Louis Jeune to stir the
crowd.

Some at the rally were disappointed in the collapse of a Capitol Hill compromise
that would have started a process of legal residency for many immigrants.

"I think there is a desire to punish them because they crossed the border
illegally," said Aileen Josephs, an immigration attorney in West Palm Beach.
Making them legal residents serves the nation's interests by bringing them out
of the shadows, she said.

"It's a real shame for national security that we have 12 million people, and we
don't know who they are."

One man at the rally, whose T-shirt identified him as a ninth-generation
immigrant, said immigrants should be given a chance to work for legal residency
while they learn English and pay taxes. He said he's watched immigrants flow
over the U.S.-Mexico border since the 1940s.

"We are responsible because we forgot to close the door," said Jack Hairston,
64, of West Palm Beach. "And now it's wide open."

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 Staff photos by GARY CORONADO 1. Marie Antline Joseph, 7, of Boynton Beach
attends a rally held Friday to call for justice for immigrants. She came with
her Haitian-born grandfather. 2. Immigrants laud the U.S. but cite frustration
in being denied work permits and licenses.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              80 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLITICS BEATING PROGRESS ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 532 words


Compromises on immigration must have a shelf life of 24 hours in the U.S.
Senate. Last week, the day after Republican and Democratic leaders announced
agreement on a reform bill, both sides proclaimed the deal broken and blamed
each other for the irreparable damage.

The most difficult obstacle to reform isn't a policy matter but a date on the
calendar: Nov. 7. The mid-term elections could shift the balance of power in
Congress, and both parties have designs on using immigration to shape the
outcome. Many Democrats believe that running against the House's bill can unite
the party, and attract tens of thousands of new voters. The House bill would
make illegal immigrants felons and set criminal penalties for people who assist
them.

Even many conservative Republicans believe that the legislation goes way too
far. House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., who crafted
the bill, has done more for Democrats this year than any Democrat. Other
Republicans know that defining immigration reform as border control and
enforcement - and nothing more - could solidify a political base that needs
solidifying after two more polls showed new lows in President Bush's ratings.
GOP lawmakers killed the Senate bill with a barrage of arcane amendments.

Given the politics, how surprising was it that the compromise lasted only a
single news cycle? Both parties are better off living with the status quo until
November, rather than risking the backlash their concessions might bring.

Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chairman of the Judiciary Committee, says he will
begin work on another version of the bill after the Senate's two-week recess. If
the bill that got bipartisan support in the Judiciary Committee can't pass, the
failed legislation offered by Sens. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., and Mel Martinez,
R-Fla., is the most promising hope for reform - if not for this year, then for
next.

That bill would create a guest-worker program that allows illegal immigrants to
pursue legal status based on the length of time they've been in this country.
There is no automatic citizenship but an incremental 11-year approach that
requires paying fines and back taxes. Sens. Hagel and Martinez might have been
able to get their bill through last week if they had support from the White
House. President Bush says he wants a guest-worker plan but, given his problems,
he has no leadership help to give when a plan with promise comes up.

House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, is signaling the difficulty ahead
for reconciling legislative differences between the two chambers. Rep. Boehner
said Sunday that border control and enforcement are his priorities, and
compromising with the Senate on a comprehensive bill that includes a
guest-worker plan is not. Any meaningful reform before the election will require
statesmanship.

Mass marches and rallies of immigrants are planned throughout the country in the
weeks ahead - from Lake Worth to Los Angeles. Participants are learning to wave
the U.S. flag, not their homelands', as a proper statement of allegiance. Until
the political stalemate ends in Congress, however, the country and all 12
million illegal immigrants are just marching in place.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              81 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRANT RIGHTS CRY RISES FROM FORT PIERCE;
MARCHERS SEEK 'SOMETHING FAIR'

BYLINE: By JIM REEDER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


An estimated 2,000 people, most of them Hispanic, marched along Virginia Avenue
on Monday waving flags and carrying signs in support of immigrants.

"We're just looking for something fair to give immigrant people an opportunity
to work," parade organizer Irma Cabriales said.

"Immigrants have a huge impact," said Bobby Rodriguez, chairman of the Latin
Chamber of Commerce of The Treasure Coast. "Who's been fixing houses after the
hurricanes and working in restaurants? This parade shows the unity among Cubans,
Mexicans and all Hispanics."

About 200 businesses belong to the Latin Chamber, evenly divided between
Hispanic and non-Hispanic owners, Rodriguez said.

The protest was one of dozens across the country Monday intended to send a
message to Congress, which is overhauling the nation's immigration laws. Tens of
thousands rallied in more than 70 cities, including Washington, New York,
Houston and Los Angeles.

In Fort Pierce, the two-hour parade started about 3 p.m. near the St. Lucie
County Administration Building, and it took 45 minutes for the main body of
marchers to leave the assembly ground.

Stragglers continued to follow the marchers, and others joined along the 3-mile
route east along Virginia Avenue to U.S. 1 and back.

"They make it harder for immigrants every day," said Tiburcio Silos, a resident
since 1979 and now a U.S. citizen. "They should legalize everybody. It would be
a lot less headaches for everybody."

Marchers carried signs with slogans such as "We are not criminals, we are
workers of the United States" and "Today we march, tomorrow we vote." One sign
carried by a child read: "I'm a citizen but I want my parents to be legal."

Many motorists honked their horns and waved in support of the marchers, although
one woman shouted, "Go back to Mexico!"

Two counter-demonstrators also got their share of support from motorists.

"Secure our borders now," said a sign carried by a woman who identified herself
only as Katie.

"The government has sat on its hands and let this get out of control," she said.
"They tried a guest worker program 20 years ago, and it didn't work."

She said the current system is unfair to both immigrants and U.S. residents who
compete for jobs.

"The immigrants are getting low, low wages," she said. "They should be paid more
instead of filling corporate pockets. Something has to be done even if it takes
an electric fence along the border."

One woman who did not want to be identified said she is married to an illegal
immigrant who has been in the U.S. for 11 years.

"It's been an ordeal," she said. "The new proposals will make it harder for him
to become a citizen."

In Lake Worth, about 5,000 people, mostly undocumented workers, took to downtown
streets. The surprising turnout led some advocates to suggest that the workers
may be ready to come out of hiding and publicly campaign for the same rights as
legal residents.

Carrying American flags and placards reading "Legal Status Now," the marchers
walked 10 blocks from city hall to Bryant Park, where speakers addressed them in
English, Spanish and Creole.

Lake Worth Mayor Mark Drautz said failure to reform immigration laws is hurting
his city and others with large populations of illegal immigrants. He blamed
businesses who want cheap labor.

"It's draining our resources," Drautz said. "They (immigrants) are willing to
contribute. It's not their fault. . . . The employers and the businesses don't
want to pay taxes on these people."

In Belle Glade, about 500 marched in a parade organized by Sonia Barajas, a
senior at Glades Central High School.

Barajas called Spanish-language radio stations and peppered the city with
fliers. She thought it was important to show that immigrants are hard-working
people who deserve a chance at a better life.

"I'm Mexican-American, and I'm proud of it," Barajas said. "I was born in
Pahokee. I know some immigrants who are scared to come out of their homes
because of this (controversy)."

Staff writers George Bennett, Bill Douthat and Kelly Wolfe contributed to this
story.

- jim_reeder@pbpost.com

Grass-roots push for immigrant rights

From small towns to big cities, immigration rights supporters protested
throughout the country Monday in a National Day of Action billed as a `campaign
for immigrants' dignity.'

Sources: National Capital Immigrant Coalition; Center for Community Change

'Who's been fixing houses after the hurricanes and working in restaurants?'

BOBBY RODRIGUEZ

Chairman, Latin Chamber of Commerce of The Treasure Coast

- Watch interactive audio slide show on rallies throughout South Florida at
PalmBeachPost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C) & GRAPHIC (B&W)
 1. (C) MEGHAN McCARTHY/Staff Photographer A CHANCE TO WORK: Angel Mazariegos
Perez (left), 7, Marina Perez and Bryan Mazariegos Perez, 11, all of Port St.
Lucie, join 2,000 protesting Monday in Fort Pierce. 2. (C) BOB SHANLEY/Staff
Photographer LARGE TURNOUT: In Lake Worth, about 5,000 people marched from city
hall to Bryant Park, where speakers addressed them in English, Spanish and
Creole. 3. (B&W) TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist Grass-roots push for immigrant rights
From small towns to big cities, immigration rights supporters protested
throughout the country Monday in a National Day of Action billed as a `campaign
for immigrants' dignity.' Sources: National Capital Immigrant Coalition; Center
for Community Change

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              82 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SHOWING STRENGTH, IN NUMBERS

BYLINE: By KELLY WOLFE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


A ribbon of people - roughly five bodies wide and five blocks long - marched
beside the roadways of this agricultural city Monday in a high-spirited show of
support for the immigrants who have, for decades, labored in the dark soil here.

They were fired up: heaving babies on shoulders, waving American flags, chanting
slogans of unity and carrying homemade signs. They were a force so gregarious,
and so spirited, that even elderly shut-ins living in the ramshackle apartments
on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard came out to wave and pump a fist.

Leading the parade was quiet, shy Sonia Barajas, an 18-year-old senior at Glades
Central High School who lives in Belle Glade and organized this event in two
weeks - even when her mother worried it would get her into trouble.

"It's been nerve-racking," Barajas said Monday morning. "I couldn't even sleep.
I kept wondering, 'What if not a lot of people show up?' "

Monday was billed as a national day of action as supporters - many dressed in
white T-shirts - rallied together to get their voices heard as Congress
considers immigration reform.

Police estimated Barajas' rally attracted from 500 to 800 people Monday. They
met at Glades Central High School and marched up southwest 16th Street to Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard, then across to Main Street, and back to the school.
It was a distance of about five miles and lasted two hours.

Many of the marchers were students. Ed Harris, the principal of Glades Central,
said students had not been excused to go to the rally.

"I understand it's a sensitive issue," Harris said. "But they also have to be
sensitive that you can't take school time to attend any type of rally."

Barajas, who hopes to major in criminal justice, although she hasn't picked a
college, said she called Spanish radio stations and peppered the city with
fliers. She said she believed it was important to show that immigrants are
hard-working people who deserve a chance at a better life.

"I'm Mexican-American and I'm proud of it," Barajas said. "I was born in
Pahokee. I know some immigrants who are scared to come out of their homes
because of this (controversy)."

Barajas's friend, Jennifer Curieo, 15, agreed.

"We helped build America, we are a part of America, no matter what," Curieo
said.

Still, several people at the rally shared stories of living in fear of being
discovered, or gratefully taking low-paying jobs to survive.

Francisco and Andrea Solis of Clewiston said they came to this country 22 years
ago from Mexico. They said they've been U.S. citizens about eight years.

"We were in the same situation a long time ago," Andrea Solis said. "It was
hard. Now that we are citizens, we get better pay. It's a better life."

Alex Lopez, 17, said he was born in Texas to a Mexican father and an American
mother. But he still sees family members struggle as undocumented workers, and
it makes him sad. He said immigration officials were even checking paperwork at
Winn-Dixie on Main Street recently.

"Where people have to go buy food," Lopez said. "That's a shame."

He said his cousin was returning from the fields one day when an immigration
official stopped the bus she was riding in.

"My cousin said, 'What should I do?' I said, 'Talk English to them. Tell them
you are from here,' " Lopez remembered.

The officials believed her, and she was not plucked from the bus - as others
were.

And Barajas even had a fresh tale of fear. In her back pocket, she carried an
angry, hateful e-mail.

"Let's not forget who's in charge, and it's not you Pedro," the e-mail said.

Barajas said she thought briefly about scrapping the rally, but her mother told
her she couldn't. Instead, Barajas filed a police report.

"I have started something, and I have to finish it," Barajas said.

When the e-mail was folded up, and back out of sight, Barajas looked around, and
smiled again.

"I'm happy," she said. "I never thought one person could bring so many people
out here."

- kelly_wolfe@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 LIBBY VOLGYES/Staff Photographer 1. Immigration-rights backers on a 5-mile
march through Belle Glade Monday include many high-school students, who were not
excused from school to participate. 2. Sonia Barajas: Organized the rally, which
drew from 500 to 800 people. 'I couldn't even sleep. I kept wondering, 'What if
not a lot of people show up?' (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              83 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAST WEEK'S TOP STORIES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 466 words


Boy, 13, jailed in shooting of sub shop worker

SUNDAY: Brittany Haines, a 16-year-old Palm Beach Lakes High School 10th-grader,
was shot during an attempted robbery at a West Palm Beach Subway shop where she
worked. The bullet traveled through her arm and into her chest. The alleged
shooter, Francis Talleyrand, a 13-year-old from Riviera Beach, was turned in by
his grandmother, who said she saw a broadcast of a surveillance video of the
shooting. Police have issued a warrant for David Lane, 24, an alleged accomplice
in the incident. Talleyrand was taken to the Juvenile Assessment Center and
charged with attempted murder and attempted robbery. If tried as an adult, he
could face life in prison. Haines had surgery Tuesday at St. Mary's Medical
Center and was expected to improve.

5,000 protest immigration limits in Lake Worth march

MONDAY: About 5,000 people, mostly undocumented workers, took to downtown Lake
Worth streets to protest immigration restrictions. Marchers carried American
flags and chanted slogans as they walked the 10 blocks from city hall to Bryant
Park. The protest was one of dozens across the country intended to send a
message to Congress, which is considering reform of the nation's immigration
laws.

Judge overturns conviction in 2000 road-rage shooting

MONDAY: A judge ordered Vishnu Persad's conviction thrown out, based on key
errors Persad's attorney made at his trial in 2001. Persad, 29, was accused of
shooting Mary Beth Dziadik in 2000 after her husband and other bikers argued
with a driver who had cut them off. The judge ruled that Persad's trial
attorney, Ronald Lantz, did not effectively challenge the identification of
Persad as the driver, and that could have changed the outcome of the trial. One
of Persad's new lawyers said he soon will ask for a new trial date.

Hurricane response plan to operate from six sites

WEDNESDAY: As part of a revamping of Palm Beach County's hurricane response
plan, emergency managers announced that distribution of relief supplies and
damage assessment will be coordinated from six sites, called emergency operating
areas, rather than centralized at the county emergency operations center in
suburban West Palm Beach. Each site will coordinate water, ice and food
distribution, survey hard-hit areas and send damage reports to the operations
center, on Military Trail near Southern Boulevard.

Tequesta officials won't accept councilman's oath

THURSDAY: Tequesta Councilman-elect Basil E. Dalack refused to take the
village's one-sentence oath of office, which he said would amount to backing the
Iraq war. Dalack instead offered his own version of the oath that would not
require him to "support, protect and defend" federal and state governments.
Officials said they cannot modify the oath because it is part of the charter.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W)
 1. Brittany Haines (mug) 2. GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Sabastian Perez, a
Guatemala native, joins thousands Monday in Lake Worth protesting restrictions
proposed in Congress. 3. Vishnu Persad (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              84 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 684 words


It's almost as difficult to track as global warming, but the best evidence
suggests that all the coincidences in the universe were used up by the end of
the 1990s, the last ones probably going to home-run hitters who didn't use
steroids.

So there's no point in suggesting that chance has any role to play in something
as agenda-riddled as immigration politics.

On Wednesday, federal agents in 26 states descended on more than 40 work sites
of IFCO Systems, a manufacturer of crates and pallets, and arrested nearly 1,200
people on immigration charges. Authorities arrested illegal immigrants and
processed them for deportation; the agents arrested seven IFCO managers and
charged them with felony conspiracy for illegal hiring. Arrests, arrests and
more arrests.

It was Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff's version of shock and awe -
an Elliot Ness-style crackdown that came out of nowhere.

On a single day, the Bush administration did more enforcement than it has in the
past few years. A Government Accountability Office report released last year
found that work-site arrests have declined steadily - from 2,849 in 1999, to 445
in 2003, to a mere 159 in 2004. What went on Wednesday was epidemic.

But nothing about it was coincidental. Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and
activists have poured into the streets this month, calling for reforms to U.S.
policy. And on Monday, Congress returns from spring recess to begin debating
what to do. The Bush administration is under increasing pressure from a
conservative base that supports a House bill that would make illegal immigrants
felons and people who help them criminally liable.

This debate has the potential to be ugly and contentious enough to make the
Clinton impeachment seem like a vote on love for the Declaration of
Independence. The stakes are unusually high. The Republican control of Congress
hangs in the balance with November's midterm elections approaching, and
immigration is the issue that could tip the country one way or another.

Mr. Chertoff insists that politics has nothing to do with the administration's
dynamic conversion to enforcement. He says all those arrests have been in the
works for months, some of the investigations beginning more than a year ago. The
massive raids on the eve of congressional hostilities is, well, a coincidence.
"We are going to move beyond the current level of activity to a higher level in
each month and year to come," the secretary told The Associated Press.

This could be the easiest promise to keep in Washington, since the "current
level of activity" was close to zero before last week. But it is a promise the
GOP base certainly likes to hear. "Our nation's communities cannot be a wild
frontier where illegal aliens and unscrupulous employees subvert our nation's
laws," says Julie Myers, assistant secretary for immigration and customs
enforcement.

Non-coincidental note: Our nation's important positions cannot go to our
nation's political hacks who have no qualifications to satisfy our nation's
needs. Ms. Myers is the niece of Gen. Richard Myers, former chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and her husband, John F. Wood, is the chief of staff for
Mr. Chertoff. After a brief succession of low-level government jobs that had
next to nothing to do with immigration, Ms. Myers, 37, was appointed to oversee
about 20,000 federal employees and manage a $4 billion budget.

Selective, sporadic and politically motivated law enforcement is inherently
problematic, but it is especially futile when the system is set up to perpetuate
violation, rather than stem it. Congress has to do something to fix the
revolving door.

The illegal immigrants arrested Wednesday were processed, released and given
notices to appear before a judge. What is the likelihood many of them ever will?
Not great. Most will find jobs and unscrupulous employers elsewhere in our
nation's wild frontier.

There are no coincidences when it comes to U.S. immigration policy - just plenty
of predictable consequences.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              85 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT KIDCARE BUDGET UNRESOLVED BUT 'STILL IN PLAY'

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The legislature resolved its health-care budget Wednesday, but the fate of
13,000 children of legal immigrants who are seeking state health insurance
remains in limbo.

It is one of the few issues left for House Speaker Allan Bense and Senate
President Tom Lee to resolve in their last-minute budget dealings in the final
week of session. On Wednesday, neither of them ruled out the money, but neither
guaranteed it.

Two years ago, the children of legal immigrants were cut out of the
state-sponsored KidCare program, which provides health coverage for parents who
make too much money to qualify for Medicaid but are too poor to afford private
insurance.

With record highs in state revenues and a budget expected to top $70 billion
this year, some believed this was the year to reinstate the $18 million program.

"These are legal immigrant children whose parents are following the rules that
everyone's worried about," said social services advocate Karen Woodall,
referring to the national immigration debate. "There are children that are
uninsured. They need health insurance. That's a no-brainer."

But legislators said it wasn't so simple.

"I don't know where you would recommend taking $18 million out of what was
spent," said Senate Health Care Appropriations Chairman Burt Saunders, R-Naples.

Saunders said that because the federal government does not provide any
assistance for those children "as they do for most other health-care programs
the state funds," Florida would have to pay 100 percent of their costs.

"I don't think that should matter," said Senate President Tom Lee, R-Brandon.
House Speaker Allan Bense said money for health care for children of legal
immigrants was "still in play."

alan_gomez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              86 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' CAUSE FILLS PARK

BYLINE: By THOMAS R. COLLINS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Chanting, loud and insistent, several hundred people gathered at the Martin
Luther King Jr. Memorial on Sunday, calling on Congress to pass immigration
reform to clear the path to citizenship for millions of immigrants in the United
States.

The crowd, including many children, carried signs saying, "We Are America Too"
and "Let Me Love Your Country." Flags fluttered and snapped everywhere. Some
bore the red and green of Mexico or the sky blue and white of Guatemala, but
most were American flags, as requested by the lead organizers, the Association
of Community Organizations for Reform Now.

The event, which included a march that began 20 blocks south at Jose Marti Park,
was meant to coincide with today's National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice.

Local organizers decided to rally on Sunday instead so that those who attended
wouldn't risk losing their jobs and so it wouldn't be seen as a boycott.

Estimates of the crowd ranged from 300 to 500, far fewer than the 5,000 who
rallied in Lake Worth on April 10.

San Juana Macias, 36, who lives in West Palm Beach with her three children, said
she never could have imagined a few years ago a movement that could lead to her
citizenship.

"We're not criminals," she said, wearing a T-shirt with "USA" on the front. "We
want to work."

Eduardo Jimenez, 30, said he attended Sunday just "to be with the people."

"I want to work legally in this country," he said.

Roberto Tomas, director of the Guatemalan organization Comiteco Acateco Kanjobal
Maya, said he's hopeful the movement has enough momentum to get reform passed. A
leading Senate proposal would establish a guest-worker program allowing most of
the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States to work legally,
then earn citizenship. At the same time, the bill would tighten border security
and impose tougher penalties on employers of illegal workers.

"After tomorrow, hopefully they can hear us," Tomas said.

People in the crowd and some organizers said attendance was down because of
rampant rumors that authorities were going to swoop in and capture people who
are not here legally.

"A lot of people didn't come out today because they're afraid," said Ana Garcia,
who owns an insurance business and lives here legally.

Brendy Gutierrez, an ACORN member who has a work permit but is not a citizen,
not only attended but also translated all the rally's English speeches into
Spanish.

Gutierrez, 26, said he works to send money back to Guatemala for his single
mother and his six sisters. His dream is that they'll be able to join him one
day, all as legal citizens.

"Even though we are immigrants, we also have rights as human beings."

thomas_collins@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Mario Aquilar (right), originally of
Guatemala, joins demonstrators during an immigration march and rally Sunday. 2.
(B&W) Demonstrators march along Flagler Drive Sunday in conjunction with today's
National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              87 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOCAL LAWMAKERS ON BOTH SIDES OF FENCE

BYLINE: By ZACH AHMAD Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida lawmakers offered mixed opinions Monday about President Bush's plan to
dispatch National Guard troops to patrol the U.S. border with Mexico.

While Republicans were cautiously supportive of the president, Democrats called
the plan a hastily constructed maneuver that avoids the real issue.

The sternest opposition came from Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, who strongly
criticized the Bush administration for neglecting border security until it
became a potential political liability.

"The administration has been shortfalling border patrols literally hundreds of
millions of dollars over the past five years that they've been in office," said
Fred Turner, Hastings' chief of staff. "Now that all of a sudden this has
reached a political crisis, they start deciding to entertain different public
policy ideas."

Rep. Robert Wexler, D-Delray Beach, said the administration was "acting
haphazardly" in response to low poll numbers. He also said the plan would hamper
the ability to respond to future hurricanes by stretching the National Guard
even thinner.

"All Americans should be deeply disappointed that the president has once again
chosen to pander to his political base rather than commit to comprehensive
immigration reform," Wexler said.

Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson called the plan a temporary fix while Congress works
to pass broader immigration reforms.

Republicans offered a contrasting view. Rep. Clay Shaw of Fort Lauderdale said
that while using troops for immigration enforcement may not be ideal, it is the
most effective way to ensure border security.

"On the one hand, you don't want to see the military on the U.S. border with
Mexico, but we've got to stop the illegal immigration to this country," Shaw
said. "That's the quickest way to do it."

Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fort Pierce, supported using troops to secure the borders but
said he preferred using active duty personnel on a rotating basis rather than
reserves.

zahmad@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              88 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARRESTED YOUTHS TO FACE CHECK BY STATE OF IMMIGRATION STATUS

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 401 words


The state of Florida will begin screening thousands of teenagers arrested every
year to weed out those who are in the United States illegally.

Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, announced Wednesday that the Department of
Juvenile Justice will hire a full-time worker to determine the immigration
status of all juvenile offenders. The new employee's salary of $48,915 is in the
budget signed by Gov. Jeb Bush.

Aronberg said he pushed for the position in response to the case of Milagro
Cunningham, who was here illegally from the Bahamas when he was charged with
raping an 8-year-old girl and leaving her to die in a recycling bin at a
community center in Lake Worth. The girl was buried for seven hours before
rescuers saved her.

Cunningham, then 17, had three previous burglary charges, but escaped the notice
of immigration officials because he was booked as a juvenile.

Federal immigration officials already check every adult booked into the county
jail, and Aronberg said the lack of similar checks for juveniles "is a major
loophole in our law."

Palm Beach County Juvenile Court Judge Roger Colton has long argued for a
similar plan and already reports teens he knows are here illegally to the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security.

He is drafting a letter to federal officials about an undocumented 15-year-old
who was charged with burglarizing a woman's house while she was there. The crime
is a second-degree felony, Colton said, and the teen failed to show for a court
hearing last week.

But Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center
in Miami, fears a widespread immigration dragnet could have devastating
consequences.

Some undocumented teens were brought to the U.S. by their parents as babies and
have grown up American, Little said. Some don't speak the language of their home
countries and wouldn't have anyone to care for them if they were sent back.

The government's resources should be focused on terrorists, not teenagers,
Little said. "I would think in this post-Sept. 11 world we would have other
priorities," Little said.

Aronberg said he isn't proposing automatic deportation for every undocumented
teen who gets in trouble - those decisions are up to federal immigration
officials, not the state.

"But at the very least, they (juvenile offenders) should be turned over to
immigration, rather than released to the streets," Aronberg said.

- kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              89 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE TO CHECK ARRESTED MINORS TO VERIFY IMMIGRATION STATUS

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 889 words


A new plan to check the immigration status of the 95,000 teenagers arrested
every year in Florida won't cause mass deportations, but some hope it triggers
removal of the most serious young offenders.

This month, the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice will hire its first
full-time employee to identify and report young offenders who are in the U.S.
illegally. But federal immigration officials don't have the resources - or the
will - to deport thousands of teenagers whose crimes weren't serious enough to
land them in adult court, experts say.

State Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, pushed Florida to check the immigration
status of juvenile offenders in response to the case of Milagro Cunningham, who
was 17 when he allegedly sexually assaulted an 8-year-old girl and left her in a
Lake Worth landfill to die.

Cunningham was in the United States on an expired visa and had a history of
burglaries, but had not been deported to his native Bahamas because he was
charged in those crimes as a juvenile.

Law enforcement agencies routinely report adults to federal agencies for checks
against terrorist watch lists, but rarely check the immigration status of those
under 18 years old. In order to beef up enforcement of immigration laws,
Aronberg added $48,915 to the state budget to hire a full-time employee to
screen juvenile offenders.

Palm Beach County Juvenile Court Judge Roger Colton likes the plan, but says
federal immigration officials rarely deport juvenile offenders.

He has written nearly a dozen letters to the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security in recent years reporting the names and possible addresses of juveniles
who are here illegally.

This week, he sent the name of a 15-year-old boy who burglarized a local woman's
house while she was home. Despite his reports, Colton said he has never gotten
notice that federal immigration authorities have detained any juvenile assigned
to his court.

Once the state Department of Juvenile Justice identifies the illegal immigrants,
Colton asked, what then?

"The answer," he said, "based on past experience: nothing."

Barbara Gonzalez, spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Miami, said her agency reviews every tip received.

"But I think the bottom line is that we prioritize our enforcement actions based
on national security and public safety threats," Gonzalez said.

Deportation questioned

Some advocates and public defenders worry that more aggressive enforcement of
immigration laws could have have devastating consequences, possibly separating
teens from their parents.

Many undocumented juveniles were brought here by their parents as babies, and
grew up American. In some cases, they do not know anyone or even speak the
language in the country where they were born.

Teens make mistakes and should be held accountable, they say, but deportation to
a country where they may not have any family to care for them is too harsh a
punishment in all but the most serious crimes.

Federal immigration officials do weigh some of those factors when deciding
whether to deport minors, including severity of the crimes, the children's ages,
how old they were when they came to the U.S., how long they have lived here and
what ties they have to the birth country, Gonzalez said.

Children who have serious medical problems or a close family member being
treated in U.S. are less likely to be deported, she said.

Juvenile crimes are treated differently than adult convictions under federal
immigration law. Adults who are here legally, but are not U.S. citizens, can be
deported if convicted of serious or repeat crimes. But legal residents charged
in juvenile court usually cannot, except in the most serious cases like drug
trafficking.

Assistant State Attorney Pam Roebuck, who prosecutes juvenile cases in Martin
County, said authorities should be looking closely at the immigration status of
all offenders, including juveniles.

Some undocumented teens came to the U.S. on their own, she said, and get into
trouble because they don't have parents to supervise them. Many get caught
driving without a license, she said, sometimes while high or drunk.

Though the crimes may be misdemeanors, Roebuck said, "that is a very serious and
deadly situation."

Federal immigration officials notified her that they would get involved in one
of her juvenile cases for the first time three weeks ago, Roebuck said. The teen
is one of her most serious offenders, she said, charged with felony lewd and
lascivious battery. Once he is released from the juvenile detention center, he
will go to a federal holding center to await a deportation hearing.

Lack of data a problem

State officials say they don't know how many juvenile offenders might be in the
U.S. illegally. Colton estimates that the numbers may be as high as 5 percent to
10 percent of all teens arrested.

"How many people will it affect? Well, we don't know because we don't do the
checks," Aronberg said. "And the fact that we don't have any data on this shows
it is a problem."

Aronberg said he doesn't intend automatic deportation of every teen who commits
a crime. But he does want federal officials to have the information so they can
pursue serious cases.

From now on, Aronberg said, whether adult or juvenile, "if you are arrested for
a crime, you are going to have your immigration status checked."

kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              90 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 9, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PAIR PAROLED IN IMMIGRATION CASE

BYLINE: By MEGHAN MEYER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: DEERFIELD BEACH


Exhausted after more than a month in federal detention and 25 hours on a train,
a Boca Raton High School honor student and her mother reunited with their family
Thursday night.

Debora Puac, 14, and her mother, Sonia, were paroled Wednesday from a
Pennsylvania detention center where immigration authorities sent them on charges
of overstaying their tourist visas.

The case offers a local glimpse of the country's immigration crisis, showing how
a complex web of laws can separate a family and prevent an honor student from
attending class.

Authorities told the Puacs they could leave the detention center Wednesday
morning. But because they had no passports, they couldn't fly. They had to take
a train. Prolonging the ordeal, the Silver Meteor from Philadelphia arrived late
at the Deerfield Beach Amtrak station.

Francisco Puac left his West Palm Beach bakery early to meet his wife and
daughter. He peered north along the tracks, wringing his hands. As the train
finally pulled in at 6:45 p.m., he jogged toward the door, weaving through the
crowd and seizing a sobbing Sonia in an embrace. Wearing a Mickey Mouse shirt,
Debora stepped onto the platform next. Alternately beaming and tearful, she
hugged her father and her brother, Wellington, 23, who had flown in to help with
the family crisis as soon as his college exams in Guatemala ended.

"I'm very happy to see my dad again," Debora Puac said. "We thought we wouldn't
be able to see him for a long time."

They'll be allowed to stay at home in Boca Raton for a year while their case
proceeds through the courts, immigration officials said.

"Because of this pretty minor infraction, the mother and daughter have been put
through hell this past month," said Linda Cahill, an attorney for the family who
also went to the train station to welcome them home Thursday. "Compared to some
of the horrible things that go on in immigration, like marriage fraud, this is
so small."

The Puac family came to Florida from Guatemala in 1998. A leader of his
community in the Guatemalan highlands, Francisco Puac also worked for the
government, assisting with criminal investigations at a time when political
corruption made that extremely dangerous work. Fearing for his life and his
family's, he obtained asylum in the United States in 2001.

Sonia and Debora could have applied for the same status, but instead decided to
keep renewing temporary visitor visas meant for tourists so they could continue
to travel to Guatemala to see Wellington and his brother, Francisco, 29. The two
attended college in Guatemala, where tuition is cheaper than in the United
States, the elder Francisco Puac said. It's dangerous for them too, but the
people of Guatemala need help, and someone has to provide it, he said. Puac's
oldest son, an attorney, is studying for a master's degree in human rights.

A child's right to liberty was an issue Puac pondered during his wife and
daughter's time in the detention center, when they called him at night.

"The problem is double, because there is no reason for it," he said. "Why, why,
why, I would ask."

In Boca Raton, Debora earned stellar grades and dedicated herself to the
school's junior ROTC program. She and her mother would return to Guatemala a few
times each year, reapply for a visa, and come back. The strategy worked for
seven years, until they were arrested at Miami International Airport in April.
They were later taken to a family detention facility in Leesport, Pa., said
Barbara Gonzales, spokeswoman for the Miami office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

While her friends in Boca Raton petitioned for her release, Debora attended
class in the detention center. Academically, the experience did not prove
enlightening, she said, but she learned a lot about hardship. Before her ordeal,
Debora Puac wanted to be a pilot or an astronaut. She hopes she'll be allowed to
stay in the United States so she can achieve her dreams, she said. And she's
added another goal to her list: she wants to help the immigrant community. She's
already started, writing the first 30 pages of a book about her experience while
she was in the detention center.

"I want to write about how unfair it was," she said. "We were locked up there,
without having done any crimes or anything."

meghan_meyer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer Members of the Puac family, (from left)
Wellington, Debora, Sonia and Francisco, are reunited at the Deerfield Beach
Amtrak station Thursday. Debora, a Boca High honor student, and Sonia now have a
year to try to straighten out their immigration status. Wellington came from
Guatemala for the reunion.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              91 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUST VISITING

BYLINE: By MEGHAN MEYER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2289 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Every morning, she raised the American flag in front of her high school.

Born in Guatemala and reared in the United States, 14-year-old Debora Puac has
embraced her adopted country with fervent patriotism.

That's why her friends and family reacted with horror when they learned
immigration officials had arrested Debora and her mother, Sonia Choz de Puac,
and sent them to a detention center in Pennsylvania.

Debora's father, Francisco Puac, has political asylum. Debora and Sonia have
tourist visas that allow them to return to Guatemala to see family. They were
charged with overstaying these visas.

After the Puacs spent more than a month in lockup, officials paroled them this
month.

Their ordeal shed light on the federal government's scrutiny of visa holders in
a time of increased enforcement. Their case demonstrates the complexity of
immigration laws, experts say.

"In this case you have the family of a bona fide recipient of asylum, who could
have gotten asylum themselves, and because of the complicated nature of the
system are having deportation proceedings," said Michele Waslin, immigration
policy director for the National Council of La Raza in Washington. "These are
people who have a legal right to live in this country."

On a permanent vacation

Their 10-year multiple-entry visas entitled them to stay in the United States
for up to six months at a time. When time ran out, Sonia and Debora would spend
a few weeks in Guatemala, then return home to Boca Raton. Sonia timed their
trips around school breaks for Debora, an honor student at Boca Raton High
School.

It was an abuse of the tourist visa, which is meant for pleasure trips.
Applicants must demonstrate that they have social and economic ties to their
home countries, and that they do not intend to immigrate to the United States.
The Puacs weren't supposed to be sending Debora to school.

But the strategy worked for seven years.

The tactic is not one that many immigrants use, said Cheryl Little, director of
the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. Usually, once a prospective immigrant
obtains a visa of any kind and leaves his country, he simply doesn't return when
time runs out.

"People are afraid if they leave the country, they might not get back in even if
they have a valid visa," Little said.

Of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, 40
percent have overstayed a visa, according to a study by the Pew Hispanic Center
in Washington. They are considered undocumented immigrants because they don't
have immigration documents; tourist and business visas are intended for
visitors, not those who want to live permanently in the United States. The
remaining 6 million to 7 million undocumented immigrants included in the 12
million estimate evaded authorities at border crossings and have no valid
documents whatsoever.

Scrutiny of visa-holders has sharpened since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and
subsequent shuffling of federal immigration agencies into the Department of
Homeland Security. Before that, immigration experts say, the government did
almost nothing to address illegal immigration.

"They're still doing relatively little even with the highly publicized
roundups," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which seeks to limit immigration. "They're not doing anything to change the
conditions that lead people to come to this country and remain here illegally."

Schools do not ask students about their immigration status, operating on a
philosophy that everyone deserves an education.

At school, Debora devoted herself to the junior Navy Reserve Officer Training
Corps. It's difficult to win a spot on the team, even harder for a freshman.

"She came here and blazed a trail from the moment she started here," said naval
science instructor Edwin Morales, who supervises the Boca Raton High School
program. "She's probably more patriotic than almost any other student we have."

In January, Sonia applied for a two-month extension so they would be able to
stay through the end of the school year in May. Debora could go to the national
junior ROTC competition in Pensacola, for which she had trained all year and
ultimately won fourth in push-ups. In April, the application was denied. The
family had 30 days to respond.

During that 30 days, the visa was still valid, even though the six months had
passed, contended the family's attorney, Linda Cahill.

Immigration officials saw things differently.

"If you arrive in the United States on a tourist visa to see Disney World, and
you stay beyond six months, you violate your contract with us," said Zachary
Mann, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection in Miami. "You are
subject to removal."

Fleeing peril

Married 30 years, Sonia Choz and Francisco Puac made frequent public appearances
when they lived in the state of Totonicapan, in the Guatemalan highlands.
Francisco organized sporting events and would advertise them on television. He
ran for mayor with Sonia, a psychologist, at his side during speeches.

"I wanted to work for the people," Francisco said. "I wanted to change the
situation."

He made a lot of enemies, the most dangerous through his job investigating drug
traffickers. When a co-worker was killed and he was the target of threats
himself, he got scared. The family moved to the United States, where Puac
obtained asylum in 2001. Now he owns a bakery in West Palm Beach.

It's still dangerous for them.

During visits to Totonicapan, Sonia and Debora stayed in the family's home.
Grandparents, aunts and uncles came to visit. They rarely went out in public.

On their last visit, Debora and Sonia returned to the Miami airport at 7 p.m.
April 30. They would stay there for 12 hours.

The next day, more than a million people rallied in cities across the country
for immigration reform, some skipping school and work to draw attention to the
cause.

As they attempted to reenter the country, a customs officer took Sonia alone
into a small room. Screaming, she demanded to know why Debora attended school in
the United States. Sonia asked for asylum. At about 5 a.m., two female officers
came in and ordered them against the wall to be searched. They took
fingerprints, a difficult task, as Sonia's hands were sweating, even though the
room was freezing.

"Our officers try to treat everyone with as much courtesy as possible," Mann
said. "You hear people say I was mistreated or treated differently. We treat
everyone the same." About 7 a.m., a van took them to Krome Detention Center west
of Miami. There were cameras everywhere, and a bathroom with an open stall: no
door, no privacy. Guards stood between them and leering men in orange uniforms.

"I was scared," Debora recalled. "I had never seen anything like this before,
except on TV, court shows." Officers took them to a nearby hotel, where they
shared a room with a Colombian woman and her daughter. During the next few days,
they went back and forth to Krome, for medical examinations and paperwork.
Doctors X-rayed their chests and gave them pregnancy tests afterward. Debora put
off taking a shower, thinking she'd wait until she returned home.

Finally, they had an interview with immigration officials, who determined that
they had a credible fear of going back to Guatemala. They would be allowed to
apply for asylum. They could go home tomorrow, the officers told them.

Instead, officers woke them up at 3 a.m. May 4. They were flown to Pennsylvania.

That morning, Francisco Puac arrived at the hotel to take his wife and daughter
home, only to find they'd been whisked away.

Family-friendly detention

As the government steps up enforcement of immigration laws, more detainees are
transferred out of the state or deported, and quickly, Little said.

"It creates huge problems for them," she said. "If their attorney and support
system is in Florida, it's much more difficult for them to win their case."

Debora finally got her shower at Immigration and Customs Enforcement's family
shelter in rural Berks County, Pa. She had to use delousing shampoo.

Most of the other detainees had tried unsuccessfully to evade authorities at the
border. One family had been there a year and seven months.

You're never getting out of here, they told Sonia and Debora. If you're here,
you're getting deported.

The first two weeks, Debora shared a room with three other girls, including
6-year-old twins, Rocio and Natalie. The twins came from Totonicapan too.

They told her not to cry and offered her stickers.

"So then I was crying because I was sad, and at the same time, they're trying to
make me feel better, and the only thing they can get me is a sticker," Debora
said.

Sonia roomed with the twins' mother, who had fled an abusive husband in
Guatemala. She had been at Berks County for 11 months, and she still had bruises
from the beatings.

The twins and their mother were deported two weeks later. Debora had been
certain they would obtain asylum. It scared her.

"She had proof in her body," Debora said. "We were just starting. What if we got
deported?"

As she tried to fall asleep on the 2-inch-thick mattress, Debora thought of her
bedroom at home. An explosion of pink, it looks like a warehouse for Hello Kitty
collectibles. She usually keeps a Bible there, on her bed. She still had that,
and it gave her comfort.

The detainees rose at 6:30 a.m., all but Debora, who woke up a half-hour early
to do push-ups and crunches. Her new roommates, two teenage girls from China,
joined in.

In the morning they checked the day's job list for their cleaning chores. After
breakfast, the children attended class. The teachers constantly admonished them
to speak English, though most knew not a word of the language.

Debora made perfect scores. With nothing else to do, she tutored three teenage
boys.

The teachers gave her a notebook. She started writing the story of her ordeal,
and she wrote out Bible verses for the other children.

"I thought maybe this is why God put me here, to help people," she said. "Maybe
he's not going to let me out of here 'til I'm done."

Sonia and Debora cherished their time outdoors, two 45-minute sessions each day.
Accustomed to running 5 miles every weekend with her father, Debora craved
exercise. She and Sonia walked 5 miles a day. In a month, they probably walked
150 miles.

Outside, the younger children played a chilling game of tag. The girls would
scream, "Run faster, as if Immigration was behind us," Debora recalled. "They
would crouch on the floor as if they were hiding." They called Francisco every
night. Their lawyers had applied for parole, and they were released, without
warning, on June 7. The staff made them wash the breakfast dishes because they
wouldn't be around for lunch.

They faced a 25-hour train journey because they no longer had passports needed
to board a plane.

In the Philadelphia train station, 33 days of institutional food behind her at
last, Debora made a beeline for the doughnut shop. When Amtrak's Silver Meteor
finally pulled into the Deerfield Beach station the next day, more than an hour
late, Francisco jogged across the platform to meet them. The family collapsed in
a rush of hugs and tears.

This summer, Debora plans to finish writing her book. She and Sonia also are
collecting shampoo and sneakers for the detainees in Pennsylvania. They're
working with their attorneys to prepare their case for asylum.

The Puacs' attempt to abide by the letter, if not the spirit, of their visas
came back to haunt them.

"I feel for her because her family has made a dedicated attempt to stay here
legally," said Morales, the ROTC instructor. "The struggle they're facing is
because they're trying to do the right thing."

Infused with her parents' devotion to education, Debora wants to go to college
in the United States, then maybe become an astronaut or a pilot. The schools are
better here, she said.

"I love my school," she said. "I really want to be in ROTC all four years.
That's why I want to stay."

meghan_meyer@pbpost.com

An immigration odyssey

January: Sonia Puac applies for a two-month extension on the six-month tourist
visas she and her daughter carry.

March: Visas scheduled to run out.

April: Visa extensions denied. They fly to Guatemala.

April 30: Attempt to reenter the country at Miami International Airport.

May 3: Credible fear interview.

May 4: Transferred to Berks County, Pa.

June 7: Puacs paroled.

June 8: Return to South Florida.

June 30: Scheduled hearing with immigration judge.

Immigration, asylum and visas in the United States

Of an estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, 40
percent overstayed a visa.

The U.S. admitted about 180 million people who said they did not intend to
immigrate in 2004, including 177 million tourists, business travelers and
short-term visitors.

Estimates of the number of undocumented immigrants graduating from U.S. high
schools each year vary widely. One puts it at 65,000. Another puts the number of
undocumented immigrants attending public schools in Florida alone at more than
97,000.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has 20,800 beds nationwide for
detention. That number could increase to 27,500 by 2007.

In May, Florida facilities housed about 1,670 detainees. More than 500 were in
the Krome Detention Center west of Miami. New centers in Glades and Citrus
counties will have room for another 700 people when they open in 2007.

5,119 people who received political asylum last year lived in Florida. That's 38
percent of the total, more than any other state.

In 2005, the U.S. granted asylum to 253 Guatemalans.

Sources: U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Justice, U.S.
State Department, the White House, Pew Hispanic Center, Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center, the National Council of La Raza, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE: TOURIST VISAS Ran all editions. Info boxes at end of
text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Boca Raton High School student Debora
Puac relaxes in her bedroom June 9 after being detained for a month in
Pennsylvania because her tourist visa expired. 2. CHRIS MATULA/Staff
Photographer Debora Puac (second from right) greets her father as her brother
hugs her mother, Sonia, when the women arrived in Deerfield Beach June 8.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              92 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOCAL FLEXIBILITY OFFERSIMMIGRATION ANSWERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 442 words


House Republican leaders intend to hold 21 hearings in 13 states during
Congress' recess in August to promote immigration legislation that neither
President Bush nor the Senate support.

The House bill calls for a crackdown against illegal immigration but offers no
plan for dealing with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here. The bill
would make them felons and make people who hire or assist them subject to
criminal prosecution. House leaders support mass deportation but are silent
about how to replace the contribution to the economy that the illegal workforce
makes. The Senate and president believe reform must go beyond enforcement and
create a guest worker program that gives immigrants a legal means of filling the
jobs Americans don't want.

It is disingenuous for the touring Republicans to call their political
barnstorming a serious attempt to have constructive debate. Their hearings are
really campaign events aimed at the conservative base in advance of the November
elections. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee
and a key proponent of its version of reform, said the House antics won't change
many minds or bring Congress any closer to agreeing on compromise legislation.
"I think we all pretty well know what the bills say," Sen. Specter said, and
they share little in common.

An attempt at compromise came last week from Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas,
and Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind. They proposed legislation that would allow the 12
million illegal immigrants to work here legally but only after the government
had tightened control of its borders. But the incentives for participation are
meager. Immigrants would be pressured to "self-deport" to their home countries,
then return under the guest worker program. They would not be eligible for
citizenship for 17 years. Self-deportation and a long wait only will encourage
illegals to stay illegal.

Practical solutions to immigration problems remain the domain of local
governments. The Jupiter town council has approved a three-year lease with
Catholic Charities to operate a job center that will serve about 500 immigrant
workers. Lake Worth is following the Jupiter model. Mayor Marc Drautz is working
with Palm Beach County Commissioner Warren Newell to relocate the county health
department from a city-owned building and use it for a labor center. Both cities
want to put an end to laborers looking for work on street corners, and both
recognize that the labor is important to the community.

Congress should study Jupiter and Lake Worth to learn how to set demagoguery
aside and approach immigration reform with fairness and creativity.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              93 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SLOPPY PAPERWORK ENDANGERS LEGAL STATUS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SCOTT CENDROWSKI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Their cases run the gamut.

Some immigrants want U.S. citizenship after they sneak past the border. Others
need to renew a visa to stay legal. And still others want political asylum to
escape persecution in their home country.

Yet, Sara Coen-Giovanelli has seen all their papers stream into her office,
botched, blemished, butchered and marred.

"Sometimes it's a lack of care, sometimes it's a lack of interest or sometimes
it's just dishonesty," Coen-Giovanelli, 40, an immigration attorney at Weiss,
Alden & Polo P.A. in Boca Raton, said last month as she reviewed complaints
against Florida paralegals and businesses charged with deceiving immigrants who
went to them for help.

It's a manifest problem in Palm Beach County and the rest of South Florida:
Immigrants want U.S. citizenship or a visa, but they rely on someone else to
fill out their documents in English.

Immigration lawyers' ire is directed toward the community members, paralegals
and so-called notarios who sweep in to help and, the lawyers say, often ruin
clients' papers.

By law, they cannot give legal advice, though many inevitably do. The violation
has been punishable as a felony since last year.

In these cases, even suggesting which form to fill out could be illegal and
waste hundreds of dollars for the immigrants.

And because the immigration court system is unsympathetic to even misspelled
names or incorrect dates, the lawyers say, minor mistakes can land an immigrant
in deportation proceedings.

"These are government forms, legal forms, and to turn your life over and give
them the right to fill out forms on your behalf . . . " said an animated Richard
Hujber, 35, who has his own practice in Boca Raton and deals with three to four
notario cases a week.

Several of these businesses contacted in Palm Beach County declined to comment.

The problem has become so widespread that the Florida Bar formed a special
committee last year to formulate paralegal regulation.

A proposal to establish a two-tiered certification process for paralegals is
before the Florida Supreme Court for approval, which could come as early as this
year. Though it wasn't specifically formed to address unscrupulous paralegals -
more generally, paralegal oversight - the topic was discussed by the special
committee.

At a meeting in October, Barry Puett, a paralegal educator at Manatee Community
College in Bradenton, said regulations would at least provide a "minimum
competency standard. And they will say, 'I'm sorry, I can't do that for you. I
know an attorney who can do that for you.' "

The chairman of that committee, Ross Goodman, 48, a lawyer based in Pensacola,
said the regulation finally proposed by the committee "essentially brings
(paralegals) under the Bar's ethical code."

Many businesses help immigrants by offering much lower fees than lawyers but the
same efficiency. But immigrants who have cases with blemishes, such as a
criminal record, have trouble making it through immigration court without an
informed attorney.

"It can be a blessing in some situations," said Angelina Castro, an attorney
with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Fort Pierce. "There are
non-attorneys who mean well and are not charging exorbitant fees, but without
training and with the pace of change occurring in the immigration field and law,
people unknowingly or knowingly will put immigrants at risk by filing
immigration applications without understanding what the repercussions could be."

Castro said her office averages 10 calls a day from immigrants who complain that
they have been taken advantage of. Though figures on the number of deceptive
paralegals or notarios don't exist, a federal study released two weeks ago on
the number of political asylum cases granted shows that South Florida can be
hard on immigrants.

For instance, immigration Judge Mahlon Hanson in Miami rejected 96.7 percent of
cases between 2000 and 2005, the highest percentage of any judge in the country
during that time, according to information collected by the Executive Office for
Immigration Review, an agency within the U.S. Department of Justice.

In Coen-Giovanelli's office, which overlooks some of the small immigrant-owned
businesses in Boca Raton, the Dominican Republic-born lawyer, who holds law
degrees from three countries, couldn't hide her frustrations.

"They're lost and they're easily victimized," she said, turning aside.

scott_cendrowski@pbpost.com 2

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Sara Coen-Giovanelli: Attorney says notarios and paralegals can be dishonest.
(mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              94 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REAL IMMIGRATION REFORM ALSO COMES AT GOOD PRICE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 506 words


Congress has made no progress on immigration reform because some lawmakers can't
move beyond political distortion and take an honest look at one of the country's
most complicated problems.

A fine example of hyperbole over reason is their reaction last week to a
Congressional Budget Office analysis of the Senate's immigration plan. The CBO
found that the Senate proposal - which would tighten borders, create a
guest-worker program and allow foreign workers an incremental path to legal
status - would cost about $126 billion to implement. Immediately, House
Republicans took the figure and assailed the Senate plan as a travesty. They
said the cost was outrageously high and that the country would be better off
with their version of reform -- a bill that would make illegal immigrants felons
and people who help them criminally liable. The $126 billion became the most
repeated number in Washington, and also the most misunderstood.

The House Republicans don't mention that the figure reflects the cost to the
country over a 10-year period. They also don't talk about where all that money
would go. For example, $78 billion would be spent on border security: more
fences, federal agents, helicopters, boats and screening technology. There is
little or no dispute in Congress over spending more to tighten the borders, and
more than 60 percent of the money in the Senate bill would go toward that.

Another $48 billion would pay for federal benefits to legalized immigrants.
House Republicans have bristled at the thought of spending billions on child tax
credits, Medicaid and Social Security to run the guest-worker program. But,
again, House GOP leaders leave out critical details. The $48 billion in benefits
would be offset by about $44 billion in new taxes, fees and penalties that
legalized workers and their employers would pay. For example, one provision that
has wide support in the Senate calls for fining immigrants who sign up for the
government program $2,000 for illegally entering the country. The idea could
generate billions.

An honest accounting of the Senate plan - allowing for the needed security
upgrades and the offsets brought by new taxes and fees - shows that the net cost
to the government would be about $4 billion over 10 years. That's a small price
to pay to make the country safer, provide business with a reliable workforce and
stop the exploitation of people who are willing to take the jobs that Americans
don't want.

The number that House Republicans don't want to talk about is 12 million. That's
the estimated population of illegal immigrants, and the House GOP still doesn't
have a plan for dealing with it. Here's another figure to consider: The Center
for American Progress, a Washington-based think tank, puts the cost of
arresting, processing and deporting all the illegal immigrants in the country at
between $206 billion and $230 billion. The estimate is theoretical because it's
hard to find a rational person who believes that mass deportation is possible.
Which says a lot about House Republicans.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A FENCE IS NOT A SOLUTION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 320 words


Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., decided that he had to have
something to show for this session of Congress. So, days before it ended last
week, he reversed himself on comprehensive immigration reform and took up the
House bill that calls for 700 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border.

The Senate passed the bill hours before breaking for election campaigning. It
turns out not even to be a comprehensive fence. Congress set aside $1.2 billion
for the fence and associated high-tech surveillance systems, enough perhaps for
about 370 miles, not 700 miles, which even at that would be enough only to cover
a fraction of the 2,000-mile border. The nation needs comprehensive reform that
deals with the 12 million illegal immigrants who are here. What the nation got
was token fencing.

But Sen. Frist has given election-bound lawmakers some hollow talking points
that he hopes can persuade constituents that this wasn't a do-nothing Congress.
The real work on immigration reform won't begin until both parties muster the
political courage to create a system that will bring the illegal population out
of the shadows. Federal sweeps of work sites and anti-immigrant rhetoric has
driven some of that population deeper underground. Labor shortages are reported
from Florida's citrus groves to California's vineyards. In an interview
Wednesday with The Post, Florida Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson
confirmed the problem. Haphazard enforcement and bogus reform efforts already
have hurt the economy.

Republicans are taking bows for enhancing national security with intermittent
border fencing while doing nothing about 12 million unidentified foreigners
living across the country and doing who knows what. Congress has done all it can
to avoid defining immigration reform as the security issue it is because that
would necessitate dealing with it honestly, urgently and at political risk.
Fences are easier.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 6, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OUTSOURCING AT HOME

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 449 words


New research suggests that the Bush administration is right to dismiss critics
who talk about this being a jobless economic recovery. It turns out that
thousands of new jobs really are being created. They're just not going to
Americans.

The number of immigrants holding jobs has grown by more than 2 million during
the past four years, according to a study of Census Bureau data by the Center
for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that favors more restrictive
immigration policy. The center found 19.7 million immigrants with jobs, with
about half the growth since 2000 due to employment of illegal workers. During
the same period, the number of native-born workers decreased by 482,000 to 115.3
million.

The CIS analysis mirrored results of a Pew Hispanic Center study this year that
found 28.5 percent of new jobs going to immigrants, even though noncitizens make
up less than 9 percent of the overall work force. Lack of training or education
is no impediment. A weak labor market during the past four years, with plenty of
low-skilled, low-paying positions, has attracted 1.1 million immigrant workers
who have no more than a high school degree.

Apparently, employers struggling to survive soft economic times have grown more
willing to hire illegal immigrants who accept low wages and poor benefits, if
any. Immigrants also are willing to travel farther to find work, often taking
the most physically demanding and sometimes dangerous jobs. Businesses under
pressure find it expedient to take one job with a living wage and health
insurance and turn it into two jobs that offer minimum wage and nothing else.

Steven Camarota, author of the CIS report, says the trend is eliminating many
jobs that natives want, not just filling jobs they don't want. "While it would
be an oversimplification to assume that each job taken by an immigrant is a job
lost by a native," he said, "it is clear immigration has remained at record
levels and at the same time employment among the native-born has declined." What
the White House calls job creation is a labor market rearranging itself, with an
expanding low end and a stagnant top.

Demographic changes may be distorting some of the recent findings. According to
the census, the number of U.S.-born workers showed almost no growth over the
past four years, making it inevitable that immigrants would increase their share
of the jobs market. Immigration reform will improve the quality of jobs for the
people who need them most. A sensible guest worker program - such as the AgJOBS
Act that has strong bipartisan support in the Senate - would provide a legal
framework for foreign workers and bring wage guarantees to boost U.S. workers'
paychecks.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              97 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 31, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOLEY, FAIR WRONG TO SLAM JUPITER'S EFFORT FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 329 words


I was astounded to read U.S. Rep. Mark Foley's comments about Mayor Karen
Golonka's efforts to deal with the immigration mess in Jupiter ("Foley: Proposed
job center 'condones illegal activity,' " Dec. 23). Local governments must take
action because Congress will not.

Immigration is a federal responsibility, and the current problem is the result
of years of dereliction of duty by Congress. The federal government has
abandoned local leaders on the immigration issue, and members of Congress have
no right to tell us to do nothing while the problem tears our communities apart.
Municipal officials around South Florida are doing the best they can to try to
deal with the issue forced on them by a negligent government. Our economies, our
security and the very fabric of our neighborhoods are at risk. We're the ones on
the front lines. We're the ones whose police, firefighters, schools, local
businesses and other services are strained beyond belief.

Illegal immigrant workers are America's dirty little secret. Everybody knows the
federal government does not enforce its own laws. Everybody also knows that if
America did deport these people, our economy would fall flat on its face. (In
fact, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR - what a
misleading acronym - even has called President Bush a traitor for suggesting a
guest-worker statute that would meet America's needs for labor and give the
nation some way to efficiently account for all these people.) Everybody also
knows that if we give them legal status, it will be harder to exploit these
people with the threat of deportation.

Jack Martin's comment on behalf of FAIR that local officials are not familiar
with immigration issues is profoundly ignorant - we apparently are the only ones
who are. It's so easy to declare war when you're not the one who'll be shot at.
There is a solution - but it will take a commitment of leadership, not political
proselytizing.

RODNEY G. ROMANO, mayor

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              98 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 14, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER SETS AN EXAMPLE ON THE DAY-LABOR ISSUE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 408 words


The Jupiter Town Council deserves praise for last week's decision to make excess
public land available for a hiring center that will serve immigrant and migrant
workers, regardless of their legal status. The town is taking a risk by doing
something, but doing nothing could prove far more costly.

Town officials and social-service agencies have been grappling with the
day-labor issue since at least 2001. Last year, the council committed to provide
a place for the laborers, whose pre-dawn gatherings on residential streets upset
neighbors. After touring five sites, the council picked the cheapest but most
reasonable option.

Two years ago, Jupiter made a deal to buy the Life Song Community Church, which
is moving, for $1.95 million. The purchase was designed to expand and square off
town hall at the visible intersection of Indiantown Road and Military Trail. The
church site has two buildings, but the town needs only one. The other could be
made available to migrants by August.

Though the site is next to the police station, that could become an advantage.
Progressive police chiefs - Jupiter is looking for a new chief after Richard
Westgate's resignation - support policies that bring illegals out of the shadows
because the immigrants then are more willing to help police. Migrants are
targets for robbers because they carry cash and for thugs who resent their
presence. Also, police must persuade day laborers to give up existing pickup
points without antagonizing them.

Opponents say the council is inviting more laborers by helping the ones already
here. Council members counter that they would limit aid to migrants who can
prove they live in town. Since so many migrants are in this country illegally,
opponents argue that helping them amounts to breaking the law. Council members
acknowledge the federal government's failure to control the border but note
correctly that the workers are here and that the economy depends on them.
Problems such as overcrowded homes can be resolved by education. If
social-service groups help out, the site could offer English classes and other
services. What Jupiter does could become a model for Lake Worth and other South
Florida municipalities where immigrants have congregated.

At the meeting, several Jupiter residents condemned the town's decision. "How
sad I am to see this country destroyed," Britt Burton said. Doing nothing,
however, has divided Jupiter. This solution could begin to reunite it.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              99 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 3, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 194 words


LAKE WORTH - Bilingual signs will be placed on Lake Avenue asking vehicles to
pick up migrant workers at a nearby shuffleboard court. Two migrant workers have
been killed on Lake Avenue this summer when they were hit by cars. Mayor Marc
Drautz says workers want to be picked up at the shuffleboard courts on Lake
Avenue and F Street because there is shade, water and bathroom facilities. But
despite requests, trucks from agriculture, construction and other companies
continue to stop at Lake Avenue and A Street, where throngs of migrants wait for
work.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers will be at six marinas between Key
West and Fort Pierce on Labor Day to process small boats and other vessels and
conduct immigration clearances. The locations include: Miami Beach and Matheson
marinas at the Miami Seaport, the Lauderdale Marina in Port Everglades and the
Stuart, Singer Island and Sailfish marinas farther north. South Florida private
boaters arriving elsewhere must call (800) 432-1216 or (800) 451-0393 to be
directed to the nearest available marina. The Miami inspections will take place
between 1 to 9 p.m.; all others are from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              100 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TEST GUEST-WORKER PLAN WITH AREA GUATEMALANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 498 words


Since the nation's beginning, the United States has a history of providing safe
haven to immigrants fleeing danger. Besides granting asylum to refugees who seek
protection from political persecution, the government also has given shelter to
hundreds of thousands of immigrants displaced by natural disasters.

In 1990, Congress passed a "temporary protected status" (TPS) statute that
permits foreign nationals - documented or not - to stay in the country legally
for specific periods of time to avoid dangerous situations in their homelands.
The Department of Homeland Security, through its Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigrations Services, can grant TPS relief to protect immigrants from armed
conflicts, natural disasters or other extraordinary, temporary conditions. For
example, the U.S. gave temporary protection to Montserrat nationals after the
volcano eruption in 1998 and to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua
the same year because of Hurricane Mitch. The Bush administration gave TPS to
about 250,000 Salvadorans after two earthquakes rocked the country four years
ago.

After Hurricane Stan devastated the country last month, Guatemala petitioned the
Department of Homeland Security for TPS relief for citizens living in the United
States. The Bush administration should grant the request.

Stan killed more than 1,000 Guatemalans and buried villages in mudslides. One of
the hemisphere's poorest nations must rebuild and feed itself. The Bush
administration sent food, medical supplies and military helicopters. But the
best long-term aid is the temporary protected status that would allow
Guatemalans to work here for the next 12 to 18 months without fear of
deportation.

Guatemalans, most of them Mayans, are helping South Florida recover from
Hurricane Wilma. They are fixing roofs, clearing debris and replanting fields.
Most are illegal, but their contributions to the Florida economy are essential.
The remittances they send back to Guatemala are also essential to rehabilitating
their country.

About 20,000 Guatemalans living in South Florida have signed petitions urging
the Bush administration to grant TPS. While the status does allow immigrants to
work here legally, it carries no permanent benefits, does not permit travel and
can be revoked for violations of law. Because it requires individual
applications, TPS would enhance national security by creating a registry - with
addresses and phone numbers - of the Guatemalans. It also could serve as a test
of the guest worker plan the nation needs. Support for TPS relief in Palm Beach
County and the Treasure Coast has come from the American Jewish Committee,
Catholic Charities, Corn Maya and the Organization of the Mayan People in Exile.

The Mayan population in South Florida took root as refugees came to escape the
genocide of a 30-year civil war that the U.S. government helped to foster. The
Bush administration can help repair hurricane damage in two countries by letting
Guatemala's refugees work legally.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              101 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER APPROVES LEASE FOR DAY-LABOR HIRING CENTER

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Facing a burgeoning population of immigrant workers, town officials have voted
to lease a new government building to help establish the first day-labor hiring
center in Palm Beach County.

Despite protests this year, the town council voted 4-1 this week to lease a
former church building to Catholic Charities as a hiring center. The nonprofit
organization will lease the building until the end of 2007 for a yearly fee of
one dollar.

The approval followed objections from one councilman stating the facility would
abet the practice of illegal immigration.

"This is an illegal activity we're spending taxpayer dollars on," said
Councilman Don Daniels. "I'm not in favor of spending taxpayer dollars or
exposing the town to support an illegal activity."

However, town officials deny the allegation, citing numerous day-labor centers
that have been uncontested throughout the country in places such as California,
Georgia and Maryland.

"I don't believe that operating the labor center violates federal immigration
law," said Tom Baird, the town's attorney. "There has to be an intent to evade
the law. Neither the council nor individual council members would be breaking
any law in operating the center."

By next March, the former LifeSong Community church will become the "Jupiter
Neighborhood Resource Center" and operate as a job depot and social services
referral program.

The center will be open seven days a week and is expected to be used by about
200 workers daily, mainly between 6 and 9:30 a.m., and 3 and 6 p.m. About 109
parking spaces with additional bike racks will accommodate laborers and
contractors.

An ordinance will require day laborers living within town limits - and some
unincorporated pockets - to seek work and social services from the resource
center through nonprofit organizations including Corn Maya Inc., a local
Hispanic outreach organization. The "solicitation of employment" ordinance
prohibits day laborers from seeking work within 25 feet of a private property or
parking lot.

Each morning, dozens of laborers gather along sidewalk curbs in search of work
from independent contractors. The current hiring practices have led to traffic
problems. Residents also have complained about an accumulation of trash, as well
as public urination and noise.

Town officials began talks to purchase the building in October 2003. A task
force is expected to monitor the day labor center.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2005



CORRECTION: Because of a reporting error, The Post Thursday incorrectly reported
that the Jupiter Town Council granted Catholic Charities a two-year lease to
operate the Jupiter Neighborhood Resource Center by a 4-1 vote. The Town of
Jupiter approved only the site plan amendment and is expected to vote on the
lease in January. The error appeared on Page 3D in the Local section.

GRAPHIC: MAP (B&W)
 BRENNAN KING/Staff Artist Day laborer boundary This is the proposed area day
laborers must reside in to use the resource center. It includes all of Jupiter
and several pockets of unincorporated Palm Beach County.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              102 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH AN ALIEN IN HIS OWN PARTY

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 679 words


President Bush is facing some fierce opposition to his immigration proposals.

His idea for a guest worker program has provoked opponents into an unusually
heated state of outrage.

They promise that the fight will get ugly if he insists on going forward. Some
of the rhetoric already has.

"Any guest worker plan that allows illegal aliens to remain and work in our
country," the outraged opponents said, "will only result in more illegal
immigration and increased crime in our country."

The president is under attack.

OK, that's nothing new. What makes this assault different is that it comes from
the Republican National Committee. It seems that the debate over immigration
reform is contentious enough to turn the choir against the preacher.

The RNC held its winter meeting in Washington last week and, naturally, there
were plenty of cocktails and handshakes - as long as the discussion stayed on
tax cuts, loving Jesus and beating up on Democrats. The president's proposal was
the rattlesnake on the hors d'oeuvres tray.

Mr. Bush believes that the U.S. economy needs millions of foreign workers to
fill the low-level jobs Americans won't take. He supports creating a federally
run system that would allow immigrants to enter the country legally, work and
then return to their homelands.

The president has some support within his party. But the RNC meetings showed how
deep the opposition runs against him.

Randy Pullen, an RNC committeeman from Arizona, received strong support for a
resolution calling for stronger border control - not a guest worker program - as
the nation's priority. Mr. Pullen represents a large segment of the party that
believes inviting foreigners to work here is tantamount to amnesty for
lawbreakers, including the 11 million undocumented immigrants already in the
country. He argues that Mr. Bush's program will reward the wrong people and
further strain border states such as Arizona, where the governor has declared a
state of emergency because of the rampant illegal crossings.

Mr. Pullen's resolution comes with an incendiary kicker. He wants to withhold
federal money from any state, county or local government that acts as a
"sanctuary" for illegal immigrants.

You can make the case that this provision means every state, county and local
government in the country will lose federal money. Illegal immigrants are
everywhere. Local governments have virtually no enforcement power in immigration
matters, and the federal government has abdicated the enforcement role it's
supposed to have.

It's like blaming the receptionist for Enron's collapse. Mr. Pullen wants to pin
a federal failure on the people stuck on the front lines. What he should propose
is penalizing the federal government and requiring it to send more money to
local agencies to clean up the mess Washington created.

The idea of defining sanctuaries is fascinating in itself. The whole state of
Florida certainly qualifies. Without illegal immigrant labor, the agriculture
industry can't get its crops out of the ground and the hotel industry can't
clean its toilets. Who repairs the state's hurricane damage if not illegal
immigrants? Who nannies the kids in gated communities if not illegal immigrants?

The RNC resolution suggests that schools, hospitals and churches are sanctuaries
that local governments must bring under control. Chambers of commerce that
acknowledge the nation's reliance on illegal labor and defend business for using
it must be contributing to the sanctuary problem, too. Heaven forbid the town of
Jupiter opens its immigrant work center.

Mr. Pullen is right about one thing. It is much easier for the federal
government to withhold money, deflect blame and turn away than to find real
solutions.

President Bush's guest worker plan is imperfect and limited. But it is also an
honest, thoughtful attempt to deal with an excruciatingly difficult problem that
is contorted by political demagoguery and paranoia.

Republicans should consider supporting the president.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              103 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT IMMIGRANTS; EASE THEIR TRANSITION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 245 words


On Monday evening, I missed the president's speech ("Bush plan: Secure borders,
allow guest workers," Tuesday) because I attended a bilingual Mass at San Isidro
Catholic Church in Pompano Beach. I don't speak Spanish, but I love the unity of
the spirit present among us. People of many nationalities, from near and far,
come together to worship and build one community.

So what's the big deal about Spanish-speaking people? Why do people feel so
threatened? Who doesn't realize that we are witnessing the same pattern of
assimilation followed by previous immigrants from Italy, Germany, Ireland, China
and the list goes on?

My grandparents emigrated from Ireland in an attempt to escape the grinding
poverty of their homeland. They faced the still-prevalent prejudice of "Irish
need not apply" signs. But my father was as American as they come - just like
today's first-generation Americans. Why not learn from our ancestors and make it
a little easier on today's immigrants? With a compassionate approach and opening
up access to legal status, we can help our newest residents achieve their
dreams.

One last note: Have you ever taken the time to watch a landscaping crew work
through the summer heat, with the unbearable noise and smell of gas fumes from
their equipment making conditions even harder? Or a group of roofers? Or a
contingent of farm workers? We are talking about hardworking people. I don't
know about you, but I couldn't do that.

CLAIRE SULTENFUSS

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              104 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 8, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STUDY: 23% OF U.S. BIRTHS TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly a quarter of all births in the United States are to immigrant mothers, a
record higher than during the peak of the previous great immigration wave in
1910, a study released Thursday found.

The study found that 42 percent of births to immigrants are to mothers who are
in the United States illegally.

As a result, nearly 10 percent of children born in the U.S. are to illegal
immigrant mothers, it said.

"We are heading, if you will, into uncharted territory," said Steve Camarota,
author of the study and director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies, which advocates stronger immigration controls. "In the past,
immigration was significantly reduced when it reached a similar level, but
that's not happening today."

In 2002, 23 percent of all American births were to immigrant mothers, both legal
and illegal, the study found. Of those children, 45 percent were born to Mexican
mothers. In 1910, 22 percent of U.S. children were born to immigrant mothers.

Camarota said that the number of births from illegal immigrant mothers makes
enforcement of immigration laws difficult.

Since those children are automatically U.S. citizens, they can stay permanently
and could be a factor in keeping their parents from deportation. The study
concludes, therefore, that the problem of illegal immigration will only get
worse if left unchecked.

Hispanic and immigrant advocate groups decried the study as a partisan attack on
immigrants.

"This is being presented in the most inflammatory possible way by an
organization which is anti-immigrant, so it's important to read it with that
understanding," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National
Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              105 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 19, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SEN. CLINTON VOWS TO IMPROVE LOT OF NATION'S HISPANICS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., pledged Monday to help reduce high school
dropout rates among Hispanics, make it easier for illegal immigrant children to
go to college and improve health care for the nation's fastest-growing minority
group.

In a speech to an influential Hispanic group, Clinton, who some expect to run
for president in 2008, said the government is not doing enough to help Hispanics
reach their goals, and she called for a return to the economic policies of her
husband Bill Clinton's presidency.

The audience at the National Council of La Raza's annual convention embraced the
senator with loud applause and several standing ovations. The council is a
civil-rights organization with 300 affiliated groups nationwide.

"Since our country's founding, Hispanic-Americans - from missionaries to
admirals to Nobel laureates and astronauts - have not only been seeking the
American dream for themselves, but helping to preserve it and expand it for
others," Clinton said.

She also touched on several education issues, including her support of
legislation known as the DREAM Act, which would allow illegal immigrant children
who finish high school in the United States to avoid deportation, earn a path to
citizenship and possibly receive in-state college tuition rates. The National
Council of La Raza held a rally in support of the measure on Sunday.

"We want to make it possible for the 65,000 undocumented young people who
graduate from our high schools each year to receive in-state tuition rates and
pursue their own dreams," she said. "I hope, with your help, we will make that
Dream Act a reality this year."

Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings also addressed the convention Monday,
touting the "No Child Left Behind Act," a major Bush administration initiative
to boost the performance of poor and minority children and punish schools that
don't show positive results. Spellings said that a national assessment of test
scores released last week was "very encouraging" and proved that the program is
working.

It showed that reading scores for 9-year-olds across the nation have improved
more over the last 5 years than they had from 1971 to 1999. Among Hispanics, the
scores increased by 12 points over the past five years, she said.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 JOSEPH KACZMAREK/The Associated Press Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton speaks Monday
in Philadelphia, saying the government is not doing enough to help Hispanics
reach their goals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              106 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 28, 2005 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

U.S. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS OUTNUMBER LEGAL ONES

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More illegal immigrants are entering the United States than legal immigrants, a
study released Tuesday found.

The study, by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group, also found
that the number of immigrants coming to the U.S. - both legal and illegal - grew
rapidly starting in the mid-1990s, hit a peak at the end of the decade, and then
declined after 2001.

The flow, however, is increasing again.

The number of immigrants swelled to 1.5 million in 1999 and 2000, the study
says. After 2001, their ranks dropped back to about 1.1 million, where it was in
the early 1990s. By 2004, the annual influx of foreign-born people was about 1.2
million.

"The flow of immigration is not this inexorable, constant increase," said
Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

The decrease after 2001 was due in part to ramped-up security after the Sept. 11
attacks, which led to fewer legal immigrants arriving in the country. Some visa
and refugee programs, such as student visas and H1-B temporary visas for skilled
specialty workers, including computer programers and nurses, were reduced, and
more rigorous checks on legal immigrants caused longer delays for visa
approvals.

The basic pattern of increase, peak and decline coincided with the performance
of the U.S. economy and was evident for immigrants from every region of the
world and for those who are legal and illegal, the study said.

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who has proposed a temporary-worker program for
immigrants, said the report shows that the system is broken.

To reverse the trend of more people entering the country illegally than
lawfully, "immigration reform must be comprehensive and address both enforcement
and improved avenues for legal immigration," said Cornyn, whose bill would
require illegal immigrants to return to their home countries within five years
before applying as temporary workers.

The report also found that the destination of immigrants has changed over the
years away from states with large foreign-born populations - such as California,
New York and New Jersey - toward new settlement states such as Georgia, Oregon,
Colorado, North Carolina and Iowa.

"Where they were coming from didn't change very much, but where they went to
changed quite a bit," said Jeffrey Passel, a senior research associate at the
Pew Hispanic Center who coauthored the study. "In many parts of the country,
we're seeing significant increases in the representation of immigrants."

The percent of immigrants who settled in Florida, Texas and Illinois increased
slightly in the 1990s or stayed the same.

The study found that immigrants from Mexico accounted for about one-third of the
overall flow from 1999 to 2003. There are indications in data for 2004 and 2005,
however, that Mexican migration is increasing, possibly indicating the beginning
of another peak period. About 80 percent to 85 percent of immigrants from Mexico
are undocumented, Passel said.

About 20 percent of immigrants were from other parts of Latin America, the Pew
study found; about 14 percent were from Europe and Canada; more than a quarter
were from Asia; and 5 percent were from other areas, including Africa.

Changes in the Mexican economy influenced immigration patterns to the U.S., but
not as much as changes in the U.S. economy.

"If the (U.S.) unemployment rate went up, the Mexican flow went down and vice
versa," Passel said.

The report examined data from the 2000 Census and two other surveys conducted
every year by the Census Bureau.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W)
 THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Coming to America Immigration to the U.S. - legal and
illegal - peaked in 1999, when more than 1.5 million people entered the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              107 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 20, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT PLAN PROVES UNPOPULAR

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Groups on both sides of the immigration debate Wednesday criticized President
Bush's temporary-worker plan that would allow millions of illegal immigrants to
apply for visas.

Immigrant advocates and Hispanic organizations said the plan is unworkable and
could create a permanent underclass in the United States because it does not
include a path to permanent residency and citizenship for the workers.

Groups that support tougher immigration enforcement said the plan amounts to
amnesty because it allows illegal immigrants to stay for up to six years and
would only increase illegal immigration.

"There is no constituency for this proposal," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president
for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil-rights group.
"The business community doesn't like it. The anti-immigrant groups don't like
it. We don't like it."

Munoz said the plan will not work because illegal immigrants who have been in
the U.S. for many years, who have started businesses and raised families, will
not sign up for a plan that eventually will force them to leave.

Deborah Notkin, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
agreed. Illegal immigrants, in very large measure, would not sign up, she said.
"I'm hoping the Bush administration will really look at this issue under the
microscope."

Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigrant Coalition, an
umbrella group of advocacy organizations, also was critical. The plan says to
immigrants, "Work hard, pay taxes, and then get lost. You are welcome in the
lowest rung of our economy, but not in our society," he said.

Meanwhile, Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which backs tighter immigration enforcement, said "guest workers" will
never leave.

Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the plan
would allow illegal immigrants and foreign workers to apply for a three-year
work permit that can be renewed once, but that they would have to leave the
country once their visas expire.

She said Bush's plan offers no path to permanent residency or citizenship for
the workers because that would reward lawbreakers and the Bush administration
opposes amnesty.

Immigrant advocates, religious organizations, business and labor groups, and
several Hispanic organizations are supporting a proposal by Sens. John McCain,
R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., that would create two new visa categories
for immigrant workers, who could remain in the U.S. for up to six years The plan
also offers a path to permanent residency and citizenship for the workers.

The legislation is a tough sell, however, because many conservative Republicans
see it as rewarding people who have broken the law.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              108 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 2, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. PLANS CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGALS' EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government will propose regulations that would allow stronger fines or even
jail terms to be imposed when companies knowingly hire illegal immigrants,
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Thursday.

Chertoff offered no specifics on the regulations. But he said the administration
will work to help businesses verify the legal status of their workers, often a
difficult task because of the proliferation of fake documents and confusion over
what employers can legally ask potential employees.

"We've got to change the dynamic which brings people into this country to work
on an illegal basis," Chertoff said at a news conference. "One key to that is to
change the dynamic that gets employers to hire those illegal aliens, and that
means more vigorous interior enforcement."

Critics say the lack of aggressive workplace enforcement is a major flaw in the
government's efforts to combat illegal immigration.

Chertoff's news conference was part of a weeklong White House effort to
highlight border security and promote a temporary-worker program that would
allow millions of illegal immigrants to apply for short-term work visas.

Chertoff compared the U.S.-Mexico border to a dam that is overflowing. The
solution, he said, is to divert some of the water.

A temporary-worker program would relieve congestion at the border by letting
workers come to the United States legally for up to six years to fill jobs that
Americans don't want, Chertoff said. The foreign workers would have to leave the
U.S. after their visas expire.

"As long as we don't have a regulated, temporary program to deal with that, we
are putting the maximum amount of pressure on our enforcers, and we're really
making the job that they have very difficult," he said.

The temporary-worker program, however, is a tough sell in Congress, where some
conservative Republicans adamantly oppose giving legal permits to those who have
broken the law to enter the U.S.

"By rewarding lawbreaking, the president only encourages more of the same," said
Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who heads a 91-member House caucus pushing for
stronger immigration controls.

Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, want the plan to go further, offering a path to
permanent residency and citizenship for the workers.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              109 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOUNDER OF CITIZENS' BORDER PATROL SHAKES UP RACE FOR SEAT IN CONGRESS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The founder of the Minutemen citizens group that gained attention patrolling the
Mexican border looking for illegal immigrants is trying to take his message to
Capitol Hill - as a member of Congress.

Although Jim Gilchrist is not the favorite to win in today's special election to
replace former Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., the retired certified public
accountant and Vietnam vet says that grass-roots support will catapult him to a
surprise victory.

"It's gonna be the earthquake felt throughout the Beltway," Gilchrist said. "My
victory in this race will reformat politics as we know it."

Analysts say that Republican John Campbell, a California state senator, likely
will be elected to replace Cox, who resigned from Congress to become chairman of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

But no one can deny that Gilchrist, 56, has made a mark on the race. Running as
a member of the American Independent Party, founded by George Wallace, he has
raised nearly $600,000, appeared repeatedly on national television news and
radio shows, forced his opponents to discuss illegal immigration, and gained the
endorsements of the union that represents 10,000 Border Patrol agents and Rep.
Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who leads a 92-member House caucus pushing for stronger
immigration controls.

Tancredo, who is weighing a presidential run to highlight immigration issues,
has traveled to the 48th congressional district to campaign for Gilchrist,
bucking his own party's lead candidate, Campbell.

Gilchrist advocates adding 40,000 new Border Patrol agents and 10,000 more
immigration investigators, training National Guard and military forces to help
guard the border, deputizing local police officers to enforce federal
immigration laws, and denying citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal
immigrants.

His focus on illegal immigration, which he says is ignored by both major
political parties, has thrown a monkey wrench into a House race usually
dominated by Republicans. Cox's 48th congressional district is one of the most
conservative in the state, one in which President Bush received 58 percent in
both his White House campaigns.

In the first round of voting to replace Cox, no candidate received more than 50
percent of the vote, forcing today's runoff. Campbell led the pack of 17
candidates with 45 percent, followed by another Republican, Marilyn Brewer, with
17 percent, Gilchrist, with about 14 percent of the vote, and Democrat Steve
Young with about 9 percent.

Gilchrist's strong third-place finish surprised many political observers.

Jennifer Duffy, a political analyst for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report,
said that Democratic and Republican strategists will be watching closely how the
issue of illegal immigration plays out in the 2006 mid-term elections as a
testing ground for the next presidential contest.

"This issue has been bubbling beneath the surface and now it has come into the
fore," she said.

But Thomas Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington,
said that immigration may play more of a role in some Republican primaries than
in the general election.

"I suspect it will be limited as a cutting issue in November," he said.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 STEVE POPE/The Associated Press Though not the favorite, Jim Gilchrist
predicted victory in the special election. 'It's gonna be the earthquake felt
throughout the Beltway,' he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              110 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE RECESSES WITHOUT AGREEMENT

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHEPARD Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Less than 24 hours after boasting of a "huge breakthrough," the Senate broke
down into election-year bickering Friday that could scuttle a fragile but messy
fix to the complicated problem of illegal immigration.

For the second time in two days, the Senate failed to pass a complex bill that,
at its heart, accepted the proposition that relying only on enforcement measures
would not solve America's immigration troubles.

The bill, modeled on proposals from Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., stiffens border security but also offers ways for an estimated
11 million illegal immigrants in the United States to become citizens and escape
the country's underground economy.

Senate leaders could not iron out the details of the "breakthrough" compromise
before Congress recessed for two weeks, sending legislators home empty-handed to
face constituents who are increasingly worried about the economic and national
security ramifications of America's porous borders.

With congressional elections seven months away, the recess could seem much
longer than two weeks, especially for a Republican majority that has controlled
Capitol Hill for more than a decade, political analysts said.

"This probably hurts (President) Bush and the Republicans, because they are the
party in charge and because it leaves standing the House bill as a motivation
for more Latino demonstrations," said Thomas Mann, a senior analyst at the
Brookings Institution.

The Immigrant Solidarity Network has organized another round of demonstrations
Sunday and Monday in 10 major cities to protest border security legislation
passed by the House in December. Representatives of immigrant rights groups, in
a conference call with reporters, predicted that the stalling of the Senate bill
would help energize, not dampen, enthusiasm for the rallies.

"This is not something for politics," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the
National Council of La Raza. "This is the lives of millions of people in the
country that are at stake."

The House measure that sparked the first protests did not address the concept of
a guest worker program for the millions of illegal immigrants already in the
United States. The bill's backers have been critical of the Senate for
considering any provision that would provide illegal immigrants an avenue to
citizenship, which they call "amnesty."

Consequently, the stalemate in the Senate on Friday was hailed by some House
leaders as progress.

"The Senate, in a rare moment of clarity, rejected its amnesty-now,
enforcement-later approach to immigration," Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., chairman
of the Immigration Reform Caucus, said in a statement.

But McCain and Kennedy, who thought they had brokered an agreement Thursday,
vowed not to give up.

"This fight is not over," McCain said.

"We don't intend to give up or give in," Kennedy said.

Details of the compromise were vague from the moment it was announced, but its
broad outlines included these provisions:

* Illegal immigrants who have been in the United States for five years or longer
could remain employed, pay a fine, pass a criminal background check and
eventually become citizens.

* Those who have been in the country for less than five years, but more than
two, could return to a port of entry outside the country and apply to work in
the United States and possibly receive permanent residence.

* Those who arrived after January 2004 would have to return home to apply for
visas through regular channels.

Each side blamed the other for the Senate breakdown. Democrats said Republicans
were trying to amend the bill to death; Republicans said Democrats wanted to
stall the bill to use immigration reform as a political issue against the GOP
this fall.

Both parties are split on immigration, but Republicans appear more divided. And
because they are in power in Washington, they are charged with the
responsibility for governing - something constituents are likely to remind them
of in the next two weeks.

"The GOP is really behind the eight ball, with an unpopular war, an unpopular
president and an unpopular Congress weighing down the party," said Larry Sabato,
director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., said his committee
would begin reworking the measure April 27 after Congress returns from its
break. He said a new bill should be ready within 10 days.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., withheld his commitment to bring the
issue back to the Senate floor, saying it would depend on whether other bills
are pressing.

sshepard@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              111 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION MARCHES PROPEL DEBATE

BYLINE: By BOB DEANS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Ever since a quarter of a million people thronged the National Mall to
demonstrate for civil rights 43 years ago, the mega-march has become a vital
feature of the American political landscape.

On Monday, nearly 200,000 people rallied in Washington to lend voice to the push
for immigration reform. With companion marches in dozens of other cities around
the country, the immigration organizers claim to have put more than a million
supporters on the streets.

After weeks of legislative battles over immigration on Capitol Hill, there were
early signs that the massive rallies may have influenced Republican leaders, who
announced Tuesday that they intend to pass legislation that does not subject
illegal immigrants to prosecution as felons. The debates have centered on the
contentious issues of border security and guest worker provisions for illegal
immigrants.

House Speaker Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist
of Tennessee did not say in a joint statement whether they plan to seek
legislation subjecting these immigrants to misdemeanor prosecution or possibly a
civil penalty such as a fine.

Other lawmakers, however, appeared unmoved.

"If there were 1 million people demonstrating, that's 1 million - out of 290
million - demonstrating against the laws of this country and against the wishes
of the majority," Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., scoffed in a statement. "They
should instead go back to Mexico and demonstrate against their own government to
create a decent country for them to live in."

Still others, though, said the nationwide marches sent a powerful signal that
lawmakers ignore the concerns of immigrants at their political peril.

"We better treat this issue with care, we better treat it with sensitivity,
better treat it with humanity," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.

"What this is building is enormous pressure on the Congress to pass a
comprehensive immigration bill," New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat,
told CBS television. "There's enormous frustration out there."

Still others said the march raised the political profile of immigration issues,
just months before all House members and a third of the Senate face midterm
elections this fall.

"It underscores the fact that the current system is broken," said Rep. Jack
Kingston, R-Ga.

Daniel Griswold, a director with the Cato Institute, a Washington think tank
that advocates limited government and personal liberties, said he doesn't think
the rallies will change a large number of votes, but it could change some.

"These demonstrations may give the leadership in both houses one more reason to
put aside partisan differences, do the right thing and pass comprehensive
immigration reform," he said.

Marching on Washington is a political tradition rooted in pre-Civil War
demonstrations on both sides of the slavery issue.

Beyond changing law, marches can be a gateway to political activism for many
people. In that way, they can have a huge impact, analysts say, on the
development of activists and grass-roots movements that can help to shift the
political thought of an entire generation of Americans.

"For a lot of people, it's the first time that they've ever expressed themselves
politically," Rutgers University historian Deborah Gray White said. "Sometimes
people go home and just don't think about it, but other people get involved in
an organization."

bdeans@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              112 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. SOLICITS PRIVATE INDUSTRY TO PLUG OPENINGS IN BORDERS

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In the midst of a national debate over the status of millions of illegal
immigrants already in the United States, the Bush administration last week
quietly launched a new plan for stopping future illegal border crossings.

In a tacit admission of the government's failure to gain control over border
areas, the Department of Homeland Security has asked private industry to submit
bids for fixing the problem.

The department said it is looking for a company to design a comprehensive
strategy - using technology such as remote cameras as well as federal agents -
to detect and stop illegal traffic across the nation's vast northern and
southwestern borders.

Although the $2 billion project, dubbed Secure Border Initiative, has received
relatively little public attention outside industry circles, administration
officials describe it in glowing terms.

Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Michael Jackson introduced the idea at an
industry conference last January as "a truly transformational opportunity."

Jackson, who said the government has "never" had a credible plan for controlling
the border with Mexico, told the gathering:

"I want to make sure you have it clearly, that we're asking you to come back and
tell us how to do our business."

As competing companies prepare proposals, due by the end of May, skeptics are
raising questions about whether the new approach will offer more security than
past projects.

"The immigration service does not have a good history of contract supervision,"
said Steve Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group that
favors tighter immigration controls.

He added that "past experience" of lax borders also raises concerns. "Successive
administrations have put a very low priority on immigration enforcement," he
said. "There's nothing that this administration's done to show that's changed."

Recent investigations by government auditors have given the Homeland Security
Department low marks on managing surveillance technology now deployed at the
borders.

The department's office of inspector general issued a report late last year
describing this technology along the U.S. borders, much of it installed in
response to the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. It concluded that camera equipment was
poorly utilized and often slow to be installed and that sensors were so prone to
false alarms that they could be set off by the movement of animals, trains or
even wind.

The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, panned
the government's oversight of private contracts for border surveillance in a
February report.

The reviews apparently helped persuade the Department of Homeland Security and
its Customs and Border Projection division to turn to the private sector.

Industry officials maintain that they can make the difference.

The department has bought many items such as cameras and sensors and
computerized monitoring systems, but it has not integrated the equipment into
its operations, said Jay Dragone, the executive overseeing the border project
for Lockheed Martin Corp., one of the competitors for the contract.

"This clearly falls in Lockheed's capacity," said Dragone, whose company is
assisting the Coast Guard in efforts to secure U.S. coastlines.

At Raytheon Corp., Ray Wheeer, director of homeland security solutions
development, said the government's latest border security project is looking for
"an optimal mix" of federal agents and infrastructure, such as roads and
monitoring stations, before installing more surveillance technology.

Wheeler cited his company's recent completion of a security system to protect
2.3 million square miles of Brazil's Amazon forest from interlopers.

Other eligible competitors include Northrop Grumman Corp. and Boeing Corp. as
well as Ericsson Inc., the Swedish company that provides security for Finland's
border. Ericsson has a U.S. division based in Plano, Texas.

The outreach for the project is unusual because it is very open-ended, said
Marcus Fedeli of Input Inc., a Reston, Va.-based market research firm that
specializes in government technology contracts. "They are presenting the
problems to the industry, and they are asking industry to provide the solution."

Asked whether the approach will be successful in plugging the leaks in America's
borders, Fedeli said, "I really don't know. It's tough. There's a lot of land
there. There's a lot of politics involved."

He added, "I think the vendor community will give it their best effort."

jmalone@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              113 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FEDS TAKING AIM AT ILLEGALS' HIRERS

BYLINE: By TERESA BORDEN Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


A day after launching the largest workplace raid in the history of the national
immigration service, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on Thursday
announced a sweeping new policy to catch and sanction those who hire illegal
immigrants.

Netting nearly 1,200 workers in 26 states, U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials Wednesday fanned out across the country to arrest workers
at 40 plants belonging to IFCO Systems North America Inc., a pallet and crate
maker they say knowingly employed illegal immigrants.

They also arrested seven company executives in the yearlong investigation.

IFCO Systems is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and has North American
headquarters in Houston.

A receptionist at IFCO's location in Atlanta declined to comment on the raid and
read a statement from company headquarters that indicated IFCO was cooperating
with authorities. She said the plant manager was not available for comment.

The IFCO operation signaled a new strategy to ramp up enforcement against
employers of illegal immigrants.

Chertoff said agents would focus on building criminal cases against businesses
that knowingly hire illegal immigrants, rather than merely imposing
administrative fines.

"Employers and workers alike should be on notice that the status quo has
changed," Chertoff said at a Washington news conference. "We intend to find
employers who knowingly or recklessly hire unauthorized workers and we will use
every authority within our power to shut down businesses that exploit an illegal
work force to turn a profit."

Employer compliance will involve better Social Security number checks, Chertoff
said.

For that, he is seeking legislation that will allow ICE officials access to
Social Security records.

Chertoff said the initiative would also involve identifying and deporting
illegal immigrants who commit crimes and aggressively investigating smuggling
networks, areas on which ICE has focused since it was formed in 2003 during the
government reorganization that spawned the Department of Homeland Security.

tborden@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              114 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSE APPROVES 700-MILE FENCE

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House voted Thursday to build more than 700 miles of fencing along the U.S.-
Mexico border - one of several enforcement measures promised by GOP leaders
before November's election.

The fencing provision, which passed 283 to 138, is nearly identical to one
approved last year as part of a larger immigration bill that has stalled in
Congress.

House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and other Republican leaders said they
would also push measures to pay for 1,200 new border patrol agents and 1,200
more Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, expedite deportation of illegal
immigrants who have been convicted of crimes, increase the number of federal
prosecutors for human smuggling cases, and authorize state and local police to
enforce immigration laws.

The GOP security measures include a bill to ban gang members from other
countries from entering the United States and make it easier to deport those who
are here. In addition, lawmakers will push a provision to make it a crime to
build or finance unauthorized tunnels into the country.

"The American people are crying out, they are demanding we take action," said
Rep. Peter King R-N.Y., chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and author
of the fencing bill.

Democratic lawmakers and immigrant advocates decried the Republican enforcement
measures as political maneuvers to exploit voter concerns about illegal
immigration.

Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic minority whip, said that the
Republican "regurgitation" of the border fence measure was a waste of time and
an appeal "to the fears and the passions of our people."

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, an immigrant support
organization, said Republicans "are seriously miscalculating this election if
they believe that appealing to the worst anti-immigrant elements will grow their
party in November."

Immigrant advocates and most Democrats prefer a measure passed by the Senate in
May that would create a large temporary worker program and give the nation's
illegal immigrants a path to legal residency and citizenship.

But many Republicans say the Senate bill amounts to an amnesty for lawbreakers
and that the border must be secured before discussing any temporary worker
proposals.

President Bush, who supports a temporary worker plan that includes illegal
immigrants, has been unable to convince House GOP leaders to support the idea.

Meanwhile, the Senate voted unanimously on Thursday to tighten security at U.S.
seaports by scanning nearly all incoming cargo for nuclear weapons.

The bill, approved 98-0 in a pre-election push on national defense, would
increase safeguards on the rail systems that pick up cargo from ports and
authorize 1,000 new agents to screen containers coming off ships.

But the legislation does not go as far as some Democrats demanded in requiring
inspections for all U.S.-bound cargo before it leaves foreign ports. Almost 11
million containers are shipped annually to the United States.

The bill includes elements not covered in a House plan passed in May. Still, the
head of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, GOP
Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, said she is optimistic that a compromise plan will
pass before the end of the year.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A MEDICAL PREDICAMENT

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 362 words


Researchers at the Center for Immigration Studies estimate that in 2002, the
national taxpayer cost of treating uninsured, undocumented U.S. residents was
$2.2 billion, plus an additional $2.5 billion in Medicaid. The American Hospital
Association estimates that U.S. hospitals spend "millions, possibly billions"
treating undocumented residents, though no exact numbers are available because
hospitals don't ask residency status before giving treatment.

In Florida, there is no reliable estimate of how much the state spends treating
undocumented residents, said Jonathan Burns of the Agency for Health Care
Administration. But the often-cited worst-case scenario is that of Luis Jimenez,
an undocumented Guatemalan landscaper who in 2000 racked up more than $1 million
in expenses at Martin Memorial Medical Center, one-tenth of the hospital's
yearly budget for charity care.

In response to the Jimenez case, U.S. Rep. Mark Foley told The Palm Beach Post,
"We need to remedy this problem before we can no longer afford to take care of
Americans."

Last year, Congress allocated $1 billion for hospital care in states that have
large populations of undocumented residents. Florida's portion was $9 million.
The catch is that, to get the money, hospitals would have to ask patients their
residency status. Many hospitals have balked. Doctors who work with the
undocumented population say they have an obligation to treat anyone who needs
help.

"We look at it not as legal or illegal, but as human beings," said Pedro del
Sol, director of the Caridad Clinic in Boynton Beach. Last year, volunteer
doctors, nurses and dentists there had about 20,000 patient visits. The clinic
manages that pace with a $1.2 million operating budget composed entirely of
donations and grants - bumped up to about $3 million with in-kind donations of
time and supplies - and an average cost of $29 per patient. It is constantly in
need of more space and money to meet the ever-growing demand for services.

Of Aidee Bernal's situation, del Sol can only shake his head and say he wishes
she'd made it to the clinic a year earlier. He has a list of eight other cases
almost as serious as hers.

- Rachel Sauer

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              116 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 28, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA'S LOSS, FLORIDA'S GAIN?

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 712 words


Frustrated by the uncontrollable flow of migrants across their southern border,
Arizonans went to the polls this month and passed a law that is designed to make
the state a less hospitable place for people who come to this country illegally.

Proposition 200, a citizens' initiative written by a coalition called Protect
Arizona Now, says that all Arizonans must show proof of citizenship when
registering to vote and document their status when asking for public benefits.
Also, the law requires public employees to check immigrants' status and report
illegals to federal authorities, or face misdemeanor charges.

The part about showing proof of citizenship to vote was just symbolic posing for
rednecks and ultra-conservative paranoids. There is no problem with voter fraud
in Arizona, and one of the last places illegal immigrants are likely to show up
is a polling place on Election Day. The other provisions have become a source of
consternation, if not panic, throughout the state because nobody is quite sure
what they mean.

The first problem is defining a public benefit. Does that mean welfare, health
care, vaccinations or higher education? Does that include libraries, softball
fields, fishing licenses, non-emergency police services, domestic-violence
counseling and many other programs?

The Arizona Attorney General's Office is sorting through that right now, and the
results still are inconclusive. The early thinking is that illegal immigrants
will not be able to receive some state and local welfare but will be eligible
for federal welfare and many other state and local services. But any opinion on
what public benefits means is sure to be tested in the courts, so the final word
on definitions is months away.

The position in which Proposition 200 puts public employees is equally
ambiguous. Is the librarian who allows an illegal immigrant to use a computer
guilty of a misdemeanor? Should the park ranger be required to check the
immigration papers of picnickers, or face legal penalties?

The law forbids public employees from accepting state ID cards or driver
licenses to determine eligibility for benefits and services; only federal
immigration documents count. The clerk in the courthouse zoning department will
find himself performing the work of a federal INS agent.

The Tucson City Council was so worried about the answers to the many questions
the law raises that last week it voted to pay the legal expenses for any city
employee who faces lawsuits or criminal charges because of the new law. The
Arizona Republic reported that immigrants are withdrawing money from banks,
pulling kids out of school and leaving Arizona.

Where are many of them going? If you answered Florida, you're correct. This
state already has the reputation as one of the easiest places to find work and
one of the least demanding places when it comes to documenting legal status. The
effects of Arizona's Proposition 200 will be seen on the construction sites of
Orlando, in the farm fields of Immokalee and at the restaurants of Miami.

Arizona public officials, from the governor on down to local hospital
administrators, lobbied against passage of Proposition 200 because they feared
the mess it is creating, and many of them also opposed the law because of its
inherent anti-immigrant bias. But the level of frustration among Arizonans
obscured the pleas for rationality, and they approved the law with a comfortable
56 percent of the vote.

Lawyers for civil rights groups are lining up on one side and lawyers for
Protect Arizona Now are on the other as interpretation of the law moves to the
courts. The Federation for American Immigration Reform, the nation's most
extreme anti-immigration group, has filed a lawsuit seeking to define public
benefits in the most expansive terms - including grants, food assistance,
college education and commercial licenses. Having won the battle at the polls,
FAIR and other kindred groups have momentum and intend to use it.

The upheaval in Arizona is further evidence of how desperate the nation's need
is for comprehensive immigration reform and control of our southern border.
That's still up to Washington to deliver, not Arizonans.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              117 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 9, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'ILLEGAL ALIENS' MAY SOUND HARSH, BUT IT'S THE TRUTH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 94 words


The writer of the Nov. 30 letter "Language as insensitive as anti-immigration
group" seems offended by the term "illegal aliens."

That is simply the correct terminology for people from other countries who are
here illegally. The writer should check her dictionary.

On the contrary, as I understand it, the term "undocumented workers" is a
euphemism used by people who want to hire foreign labor cheaper, rather than pay
a living wage to American citizens. It is estimated that there are as many as 13
million illegal aliens in the United States.

BETH WILKINSON

Pahokee

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              118 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE KERIK BACKSTORY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 240 words


Bernard Kerik hired an illegal immigrant to care for his children and his house,
and he was an "illegal employer," because he didn't pay required payroll taxes.

His "nanny problem" isn't unique.

Nominations in the Bush and Clinton administrations died for the same reason. It
was most ironic for Mr. Kerik, who as head of the Department of Homeland
Security would have been responsible for protecting America's borders.

Fighting terrorism is President Bush's stated priority, which makes his
administration's slipshod vetting of Mr. Kerik that much more embarrassing. The
Kerik fiasco similarly undermines Rudolph Giuliani's credentials. Not only did
the former New York City mayor recommend Mr. Kerik to the White House, Mr. Kerik
is a partner in Mr. Giuliani's security firm.

Nor was the nanny problem the only problem. In his personal business dealings
and public life, Mr. Kerik would have faced ethics questions and abuse-of-power
charges. If the president intends to fill Cabinet positions based on loyalty,
the least he could do is nominate friends - or friends of friends - who are both
qualified and clean.

Mr. Kerik's downfall again demonstrates how many jobs illegal immigrants do for
Americans and the need to build a system that lets them work in the open, where
they can submit to security checks without risking deportation. To improve
homeland security, focus on catching terrorists, not on ferreting out otherwise
harmless nannies.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              119 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 19, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AN IMMIGRANT, AN AMERICAN

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 722 words


People tend to divide immigrants into two groups: the ones we want and the ones
we don't want.

Typically, I hear an immigrant described as "one we want" when an extraordinary
talent is involved. We want Italian race car drivers, Indian computer
programmers, Japanese scientists, French artists and Cuban pitchers.

If you're a Mexican immigrant, it's almost impossible to get into the "ones we
want" category unless you're Salma Hayek or one of your family members is doing
the categorizing.

The United States has about 10 million illegal immigrants, and Mexicans are the
largest group. The visual picture most Americans get when they talk about
illegal immigration is of Mexicans in the desert crossing the southern border.
Mexicans have unfairly become the face of what's wrong with U.S. immigration
policy, a stigma that too often obscures their contributions and deflects too
much blame from Washington, where most of it belongs.

There has been no better example of an immigrant we want than Angel Guerrero,
who came to the United States in 1990 from Guanajuato, Mexico. Until the day
after Thanksgiving, Mr. Guerrero owned and operated the popular Restaurante
Montezuma on South Dixie Highway in West Palm Beach. That Friday, he lost a long
battle with diabetes, collapsed and died of a stroke in his home. He was 51.

Mr. Guerrero's life story reflects the values of hard work, ingenuity and
perseverance upon which this nation of immigrants was built. As a young man in
Guanajuato, Mr. Guerrero made a sparse living selling candy and learning to
cook. He came to the United States legally when he was 37 and arrived in New
York without a job. He washed dishes for a living and studied the restaurant
business between loads.

Mr. Guerrero moved to Florida and opened Montezuma in 1995. No bank would give
him a loan, so he borrowed $50,000 on credit cards and from relatives. The tiny
strip mall restaurant started with 15 seats, but within four years the steady
flow of satisfied customers forced expansion next door to accommodate another 50
diners. Mr. Guerrero would arrive at his restaurant at dawn and close it after
midnight. He cooked, bused tables, stocked the kitchen and kept washing dishes.

"He came here for the reason we all come here - to get ahead," said his
daughter, Elsa Guerrero. "He liked to cook and make food for his friends."

Montezuma became a cultural center for Mexican immigrants. During the World Cup,
Mr. Guerrero kept his restaurant open through the night so soccer fans could
watch the overseas matches on TV. He sold bus tickets to Mexico, and the
restaurant became a bus depot for migrants on their way home. He started a
shuttle service to help immigrants get to their appointments with government
agencies. Several years ago, he opened a second Montezuma in Moore Haven, on the
west side of Lake Okeechobee, and fed farmworkers breakfast on their way to the
fields. In 2000, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce honored him with its Triunfo
award for community service.

Mr. Guerrero was probably the first restaurateur to open for business after the
hurricanes hit in September. Within 24 hours after the storms left, he was in
his kitchen, flashlight in hand, boiling instant coffee and frying eggs and
steaks atop his gas stove. He rounded off prices and made change out of his
pocket. By afternoon, there was a line for hot food at his counter.

"When people come and enjoy themselves," he said, "then I'm happy."

Mr. Guerrero never would let you leave his place without thanking you for
coming. On his wall he posted newspaper articles touting his food and a prized
photo of himself with Mexican President Vicente Fox, who also is from
Guanajuato. When Mr. Fox was elected three years ago, he invited Mr. Guerrero
and 75 other former Guanajuato citizens living in the United States to return
home and donate money for public works projects in poor villages. That was the
only way to get Mr. Guerrero out of Montezuma. He dropped what he was doing and
got on a plane.

The family - his wife Ofelia, daughters Elsa, Laura, Rita; sons Francisco and
Jose Luis; and a dozen grandchildren - will try to make the restaurant run
without him.

More than an immigrant we want, Angel Guerrero was an American we need.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              120 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 7, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEED FOR JUPITER CENTER RESULT OF FEDERAL FAILURES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 121 words


The Post is correct in its assertion that the current immigration mess must be
addressed on the national level ("Jupiter trying to solve problem feds created,"
Monday).

For too long, the federal government has failed: to protect our borders; to
enforce existing immigration laws, especially with employers; to protect the
dignity and human rights of legal and illegal immigrants; to assess the labor
needs of the country; to adequately compensate localities for increased social,
health and educational costs due to illegal immigrants; to encourage the
development of technologies that would replace agricultural labor; and to
encourage family planning in both the United States and foreign countries.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              121 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 9, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'DO YOU WANT A $5 BIG MAC?'

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 709 words


I have the same conversation maybe 20 times a year. Someone calls and wants to
send all the illegal immigrants - about 10 million of them - "back where they
came from."

Controversy in Jupiter over a work center where immigrants - most of them
probably illegal - could find jobs has kept my phone ringing. One caller last
week was particularly irate. He started by suggesting that the government use
the National Guard to round up illegals. I told him that might be a bit
inconvenient right now, since the National Guard is busy trying to keep poll
workers alive in Iraq.

I share with you the rest of our conversation, admitting in advance that I have
refined my remarks slightly to make them even more articulate and insightful
than they already were:

Caller: "I am a law-abiding citizen. We have laws for a reason. Illegal means
illegal. I don't understand why you expect everyone else to follow the laws but
let immigrants do whatever they want."

Me: "All right. Let's do what you want. Let's arrest illegal immigrants for
breaking the laws, and then we'll come and arrest you for complicity in their
crimes."

"What are you talking about?"

"Well, from our brief conversation, you strike me as the kind of guy who likes a
big slab of tomato on his sandwich. You probably appreciate the neatly manicured
yards in your neighborhood, and when you go on vacation, I'm sure you want the
toilet nice and clean in your hotel room. Virtually all this comes from illegal
immigrant labor. You want it, you use it, and, frankly, you like it. But you
won't admit to it."

"That's unfair. Illegal immigrants take these jobs, and I have no control over
that. If it were up to me, I'd have Americans filling all those jobs. The
American middle class is what built this country, not immigrants who break the
law."

"Do you have children, sir?"

"I have two boys and a girl."

"We all have big dreams for our kids. You probably see the boys picking tomatoes
for a living some day, or hammering roof shingles in August. I think all
American fathers hold the hope that someday, their daughters can grow up to
clean toilets."

"Look, there would be Americans to fill those jobs . . . "

"I'm guessing you mean Americans who are not in your family."

"Hey, when I was young, there were plenty of Americans willing to do hard work."

"You know, something rather amazing has happened since you were young. College
enrollment has exploded. Parents now look at a four-year college degree the way
parents a generation ago looked at a high school diploma. We have the most
educated, sophisticated and competitive work force in the world. Last time I
looked, they weren't teaching courses in lawn mowing and dishwashing in
college."

"This is the problem: Illegal immigrants come and work so cheap they drive wages
down, and no Americans are willing to work for minimum wages."

"Here again, we're going to have to come and arrest you. You're the one who
benefits from cheap labor. I think you'd be the first guy to bitch if you had to
pay $5 for your Big Mac, or $10,000 for your $7,000 roof job. The cheap labor of
those illegal immigrants keeps inflation down and protects your paycheck. Why
don't you say thank you?"

"Am I supposed to thank them for crowding the schools and hospitals, too?"

"Yeah, go ahead. What you pay for their education and health care comes back to
you in low prices. You come out a net winner. A lot of illegal workers pay the
same taxes you do but don't collect the benefits from them. Money for nothing.
You make a big deal about noticing the Guatemalan kids on the school playground,
but you don't want to notice their moms who are baby-sitting your own kids and
their dads who are doing your scut work for you."

"Look, if these people played by the rules, I'd be OK with them."

"Now, that's a real problem. We give them two sets of contradictory rules. One
set says please come here because we have jobs waiting for you and work that
really needs to be done. The other says you are here illegally, ruining our
country, and you'll have to go home. You keep thinking this whole thing is only
about immigration law. I think it's about a lot more."

"Like what?"

"Hypocrisy and denial."

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              122 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAYOR ROMANO MERELY POSTURING OVER IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 266 words


Arguably, Lake Worth is home to one of the largest concentrations of illegal
immigrants in the United States. Some romance over it; others ignore it; and one
finds it politically expedient.

Mayor Rodney Romano is correct that Lake Worth's police, firefighters, schools,
local businesses and other services are strained beyond belief, and our
economies, security and the fabric of our neighborhoods are at risk ("Foley,
FAIR wrong to slam Jupiter's effort for immigrants," Dec. 31) as the direct
result of unchallenged illegal immigration by federal leaders.

Mayor Romano is also correct that local government must take action regardless
of outside intervention; however, he's incorrect that Congress has abandoned
local leaders and instructed local government to do nothing. Mayor Romano is
most aware of the federal tools and the local options available to curb the
illegal activity, yet, by calculation, chooses to ignore them for political
expediency or advantage.

It surprises few that Mayor Romano was astounded at U.S. Rep. Mark Foley's
position regarding Jupiter's illegal immigrant problem. Mayor Romano should
borrow from Rep. Foley's playbook the page titled "leadership." Rep. Foley
responds to his constituency in a thoughtful manner consistent with his duty to
defend the Constitution of the United States and doesn't proselytize with flashy
public declarations of personal righteousness just in time for an election.

SCOTT MAXWELL

Lake Worth

Editor's note: Scott Maxwell was a Lake Worth city commissioner from 2001 to
2003 and was unsuccessful last year in a campaign against Mayor Romano.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              123 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 17, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

END TO ETERNAL PRISON

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 251 words


The Bush administration has tried to claim sweeping power to detain foreigners
indefinitely, but the Supreme Court last week issued another ruling that rejects
the idea that indefinite, open-ended detention ever is justifiable.

By a 7-2 majority, the court said that illegal immigrants who have completed
sentences for felony convictions must be released from prison - as legal
immigrants would - and cannot be held while the government tries to deport them
to a nation that won't accept them.

More than 2,000 illegal immigrants, including hundreds of Cuban refugees from
the 1980 Mariel boatlift, are expected to be released soon. Many faced life
sentences for crimes such as burglary and drug use because of the flawed
interpretation of the law.

The administration had argued that a ruling for the Cubans would undermine
national security by making it harder for the government to control the borders.
Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for the majority, said that was for Congress to
fix, not the executive branch.

The decision is more corrective surgery to the misguided legacy of former
Attorney General John Ashcroft. In 2001, Mr. Ashcroft ignored another Supreme
Court ruling against indefinite detention by claiming that Mariel refugees and
other foreigners caught at the U.S. borders were excluded because they were not
considered to have been admitted into the country. The justices correctly
rejected that legal fiction and the attempt of an overreaching administration to
create a limbo of prison cells.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              124 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 16, 2005 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

OFFICIALS DETAIN 13 IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR and PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 345 words


A tip from a motorist who was suspicious of men she saw walking north on U.S. 1
near the Palm Beach/Martin County line Tuesday morning led authorities to 13 men
and women believed to be illegal immigrants from Haiti, Jamaica and China.

Officials believe the group arrived on a boat through the Jupiter Inlet and was
dropped ashore before sunrise, but no boat was found and investigators were
still trying to get information about the captain and any possible crew late
Tuesday.

Border Patrol Supervisory Agent Mike McClarnon in West Palm Beach said officials
believe the trip originated in the Bahamas, which is a common staging area for
immigrant smuggling operations.

Those picked up Tuesday included five Haitians, four Jamaicans and four Chinese.
Seven were men and six were women. There were no children in the group, and all
appeared to be in good health, McClarnon said.

Martin County authorities alerted Tequesta police at about 5 a.m. that seven
illegal immigrants were found a half-mile north of County Line Road, Tequesta
police Sgt. Zed Albrecht said.

Martin sheriff's deputies found a couple of the men sitting outside a small
church.

"They just looked like they were giving up. They didn't try to run or anything,"
Martin sheriff's Sgt. Jenell Atlas said.

Tequesta police later apprehended five people around 7:45 a.m. at the Sunoco gas
station at Tequesta Drive and U.S. 1. Another person, Albrecht said, was found
hiding under the Jupiter Inlet Bridge.

One of the Jamaican men could face criminal charges.

"This appears to be part of a larger smuggling ring," Albrecht said.

The group congregated at the gas station tried to use a public phone to call a
cab. One individual had mentioned going to the Tampa area, Albrecht said. Each
person apparently changed into dry clothes and placed their wet clothes in a
duffle bag that they carried.

"One gentleman had a shirt on and slacks and even had a tie on," Albrecht said.

All were taken into custody by the Border Patrol and transported to Krome
Detention Center west of Miami.

jill_taylor@pbpost.com

pamela_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer Homeland Security officer Chris Wiyda
kneels to speak with a Jamaican man, believed to have arrived with others by
boat through the Jupiter Inlet early Tuesday. 2. DAVID SPENCER/Staff
Photographer Martin County sheriff's deputies Ced Humphrey (left) and Justin
Lundstedt search for an illegal immigrant Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              125 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO BOOST ARIZONA BORDER GUARD

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government is preparing to dispatch more than 500 more agents to
stem the flow of illegal immigrants along the Arizona border, officials with the
Department of Homeland Security said Tuesday.

The announcement, set for today, comes just two days before a citizens' group
called the Minuteman Project has scheduled a massive demonstration.

To publicize lax borders, the group plans to begin stationing hundreds of
volunteers along the Arizona-Mexico line, which has recently become the nation's
busiest corridor for illegal immigrants and smugglers.

A Homeland Security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed
that the government is sending about 155 Border Patrol agents there now and an
additional 370 new recruits will be sent after their training is complete.

Until then, 200 agents would be transferred to Arizona on a temporary basis.

Most of the reinforcements will be drawn from other states, with at least some
expected to come from nearby Texas, the federal official said.

The U.S. Border Patrol now has about 2,500 agents to guard Arizona's 370-mile
border.

The agents have proved too few to stop the border crossers, who began streaming
into the state after enforcement was beefed up along the California line.

Last year, federal agents in Arizona were responsible for arresting more than
half of the 1.1 million people caught sneaking across the borders nationwide.

Many more are believed to have crossed without getting caught.

The Department of Homeland Security last year stepped up Arizona's border
enforcement by adding unmanned aerial vehicles to keep watch from the sky.

Department spokesman Bill Anthony said Tuesday that the goal of the next phase
is to "gain operational control of the border" so that crime will be reduced in
Arizona and fewer immigrants will die trying to cross the desert borderlands.

The buildup also comes just weeks after Deputy Homeland Security Secretary James
Loy reported to Congress that Al-Qaeda leaders "believe operatives can pay their
way into the country through Mexico, and also believe illegal entry is more
advantageous than legal entry for operational security reasons."

The security buildup, dubbed the Arizona Border Project, is not likely to
satisfy critics, however.

The Bush administration has come under fire from some members of Congress for
budgeting an annual increase of 210 agents for the U.S. Border Patrol, despite a
new law that authorizes 2,000 new agents a year for five years.

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, raised doubts
about the effect of the Arizona border tightening.

A boost of 500 agents won't be enough, said Bonner, whose union represents 9,000
agents.

Even if the Arizona effort is successful, he added, the project could merely
push the illicit traffic to a different part of the 2,000-mile Southwest border.

Bonner said the only effective approach would be to strengthen the border patrol
nationwide and also enforce sanctions against U.S. employers who hire illegal
immigrants.

"Otherwise, you're just shoveling sand against the tide," he said.

jmalone@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              126 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 6, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 225 words


JUNO BEACH - Four alleged illegal immigrants were tracked down and detained
early Tuesday morning after sneaking onshore from a small boat south of the Juno
Beach pier, according to the U.S. Border Patrol. The immigrants included a
26-year-old man from Guyana as well as two men and a 17-year-old boy from
Jamaica.

Officials believe the boat left from the Bahamas and pulled up to shore about
2:30 a.m. Authorities detained one of the men soon afterward and caught up with
the other three about 6 a.m., said Art Bullock, special agent in charge of the
Border Patrol's local office. Two of the men, whose names were not released,
have outstanding warrants in New York state and will be extradited there to face
charges, Bullock said. The third man and the 17-year-old were taken to the Krome
Detention Center near Miami.

RIVIERA BEACH - A 26-year-old man who fell into the Intracoastal Waterway and
died Monday evening has been identified as Robert Crook III. Crook was fishing
at the Riviera Beach marina from a small raft just south of the Blue Heron
Bridge about 6 p.m. before disappearing, according to the Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission. Three hours later, people found his body
several hundred yards south of the raft. Crook was a mate with the Blue Heron
Fleet, a deep-sea drift-fishing charter service, according to the agency.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              127 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 20, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT JOBS BILL FALLS SHORT IN SENATE

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Efforts to pave the way for some illegal immigrants to work their way to
citizenship failed in the Senate on a procedural vote Tuesday, but supporters of
the legislation said they would try again.

The AgJobs Bill, which would allow an estimated 500,000 undocumented farm
workers and their families to gain legal status in the United States, fell seven
votes short of the 60 votes needed to force the Senate to consider the measure.

It was being offered as part of an $80.7 billion supplemental appropriations
bill to finance military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. The Senate is
expected to approve that bill within days.

Supporters of the proposal said the 53-45 vote indicated that a majority of the
Senate supports the legislation. By contrast, they noted that only 21 senators
voted Tuesday for a competing bill that would streamline the current H-2A "guest
worker" visa program for agricultural workers, but not allow illegal immigrants
to gain citizenship without first returning to their native country and going
through normal immigration procedures.

"A majority of my colleagues sent a strong message today that they support
AgJobs and are ready to address immigration reform," Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho,
the proposal's prime sponsor, said after the vote. "I will continue to work . .
. to bring this before the Senate sooner rather than later."

Both of Florida's senators, Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Mel Martinez,
voted for adding Craig's AgJobs amendment.

The Bush administration opposed adding controversial immigration provisions to
the special spending bill because of concerns that they would delay its final
passage. Several senators also had threatened to delay the bill's passage if the
immigration plans were added.

Nevertheless, supporters of several controversial measures - to provide legal
status to illegal farm workers, increase the number of temporary tourism
industry workers, and create a national identification card - saw the spending
bill as a chance to hitch a ride on "must pass" legislation.

Late Tuesday, the Senate voted 94-6 in favor of an amendment that would exempt
temporary seafood workers needed this spring and summer from the annual 66,000
ceiling on the H-2B visa program for specially skilled workers.

Senators were faced with two competing agriculture immigration proposals.

The AgJobs Bill offered by Craig and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., would have
allowed illegal agricultural workers and their families to eventually gain
permanent legal residency status if they continued working for six years.

The other proposal, offered by Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Jon Kyl,
R-Ariz., would have allowed agricultural employers to hire year-round workers
under a new "blue card" system for three to nine years.

- larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              128 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 27, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ASSAULT SUSPECT IN U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 983 words


A Lake Worth teen charged with sexually attacking and burying alive an
8-year-old girl Sunday was in the country illegally for more than a year,
according to the federal government.

He escaped the notice of immigration authorities during previous arrests because
he was a juvenile, officials said.

Milagro Cunningham, 17, fell through a loophole in the federal government's
system for monitoring the immigration status of suspected criminals in Palm
Beach County because he was taken to the county juvenile assessment center
instead of the county jail, a federal official said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement automatically tracks the identities of
everyone booked into the county jail and matches them against a database of
aliens known to be in the country illegally, the official said. But no such
system is in place at the juvenile assessment center, where most youths are sent
after being arrested.

"If he had been booked into the main jail, he would have been checked," said Art
Bullock, special agent in charge of the West Palm Beach office of the U.S.
Border Patrol, which monitored the immigration status of local jail inmates
before the responsibility was transferred last year to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

It is impossible to say whether officials would have decided Cunningham should
have been deported or further detained had they been alerted to his three
arrests on burglary charges last year.

On Thursday, he was indicted as an adult on six felony charges, including
attempted first-degree murder, sexual battery and kidnapping.

But at a time of increasing concern about the country's porous borders and
debate over the fate of illegal immigrants, Cunningham's case underscores some
of the federal government's difficulties in monitoring the estimated 1.7 million
illegals under 18 who are living in the United States.

The parallel but largely separate judicial system in place for most juvenile
justice matters creates additional hurdles for immigration officials, largely
because of child confidentiality laws.

"A lot of it is due to privacy issues," Bullock said.

Such was the case with Cunningham.

Cunningham came here from the Bahamas in 2003 with a short-term visitor's visa,
usually good for no more than six months, Immigration spokesman Manny Van Pelt
said.

Acquaintances said Cunningham was sent to live with his aunt in the Lake Worth
area because his Bahamian mother felt she could no longer care for him.

His visa was long expired by the time he was arrested three times in August and
September of last year, each on a separate burglary charge. But the Palm Beach
County sheriff's deputies who arrested him did not check his immigration
background, which requires calling a federal office in Vermont, officials said.

Because he was transported to the juvenile assessment center rather than the
jail, no automatic checks were done, either.

The outcome of the judicial process in Cunningham's three arrests is not known
because confidentiality laws bar the release of information about juveniles'
court records.

Acquaintances say, however, that he was on probation when he was arrested
Sunday.

Illegal immigrants convicted of felonies can be deported to their native
countries regardless of their age, but deciding whether to deport depends on
several factors, including the severity of the crime, the length of the sentence
and the extent of the immigrant's arrest record, officials said.

Officials also say they are more cautious when considering whether to deport
juveniles, largely because of family complications.

"It's not quite as easy as the public thinks it is sometimes," Bullock said.
"It's a complex, complex issue."

Because his age kept immigration officials from learning of Cunningham's initial
arrests, they may never have learned of his illegal presence in the U.S. but for
last weekend's arrest.

Early Sunday, Lake Worth police say Cunningham took the 8-year-old from the
house of a neighbor with whom he had been staying in recent months. The girl
sometimes stayed in the same house on weekends.

Cunningham is accused of leading the girl to a nearby city landfill, where
police say he sexually attacked her before choking her, dumping her unconscious
body into a trash bin and covering her with rocks, thinking she was dead.

The girl lay in the bin for hours before police found her. They thought she was
dead for several minutes before an officer saw one hand move slightly.

In recent years, the government has developed "more of a zero-tolerance
mentality" toward illegal immigrants, in large part because of the attention
focused on the Sept. 11 hijackers and others who committed high-profile crimes
while in the country illegally, said Linda Osberg, a private immigration
attorney in Miami and former federal immigration official.

That crackdown has not spared juveniles.

"I'm seeing more juveniles in immigration court than I ever have," she said.

Osberg, who represents immigrants in court, says the attention focused on
illegals who commit heinous crimes has made life more difficult for others who
live peacefully in the United States.

In Cunningham's case, immigration officials have placed a detainer on him,
meaning that regardless of the outcome of his trial, he cannot be freed before
federal agents have a chance to weigh his fate.

Staff writer Jane Daugherty and staff researchers Krista Pegnetter and Angelica
Cortez contributed to this story.

andrew_marra@pbpost.com

Fund for girl, 8

Law enforcement officials have established a fund on behalf of the 8-year-old
girl who was sexually attacked and buried alive before being rescued by police
Sunday. Anyone wishing to contribute to an account established to pay for her
college education can send a check to any Fidelity Federal bank, made out to
'Miracle Child of Lake Worth' and deposited to account number 2280205. For more
information, call Lake Worth police Sgt. Michael Hall at (561) 586-1611.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              129 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 20, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JAILING ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT GANG HELPERS JUST A START

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 164 words


About The Post's June 4 editorial "New immigration issue: Latin American gangs":
I agree that something has to be done. Threatening a 10-year prison sentence for
those convicted of aiding gang members entering the United States illegally is a
good start.

But nowhere did I read that deportation of both the gang members and their
supporters would be an option. Why are we so hesitant to deport people who come
into our country illegally and continue to disregard our laws once they are
here?

While I am disappointed with the administration's lack of action to curb illegal
immigration, I was amused at The Post's "blame Bush for everything" policy when
the editorial says, "The Bush administration's inability to make adequate
progress in tightening the border with Mexico has contributed to the type of
violent street terrorism seen in Lake Worth."

You are so right. Take us back to the eight years of the Clinton era, when
illegal immigration never was a problem.

DONALD H. KOENIG

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              130 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

17 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS NABBED IN PALM BEACH

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


U.S. Border Patrol agents netted 17 illegal immigrants in a day that began early
Monday when a town police officer spotted a 6-foot-2, 200-pound man sprinting on
the 200 block of Bahama Lane at 2 a.m.

"He said he was jogging," said Janet Kinsella, Palm Beach police spokeswoman.

"As the officer started to talk to him, he ran."

Within minutes, another immigrant was found, and the Border Patrol and a Palm
Beach County sheriff's helicopter were called in to assist.

By 8 a.m., officers caught all the Haitian, Jamaican and Peruvian immigrants,
who told police they were dropped off from a boat that departed from the
Bahamas, Kinsella said.

Police said some of the immigrants, who reportedly paid between $5,000 and
$8,500 for the passage, changed into dry clothes to avoid detection after
arriving near the 700 block of North Ocean Boulevard.

"We think we got the whole group," said Art Bullock, special agent in charge of
the West Palm Beach office of the U.S. Border Patrol.

Bullock said Monday afternoon that the immigrants were en route to the Krome
Detention Center in Miami.

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              131 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 16, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

17 IMMIGRANTS DETAINED IN PALM BEACH SHORES

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 165 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents nabbed 17 illegal immigrants in Palm Beach Shores
Monday morning in the vicinity of the Sailfish Marina Restaurant.

Sixteen Haitians and one Jamaican were unloaded at about 4 a.m. from a boat on
the Intracoastal, where a border patrol agent saw them scatter and run, said
Mike McClarnon, supervisory border patrol agent.

"We believe we have everybody in custody who was dropped off," McClarnon said.
"We had a real quick response."

Palm Beach Shores and Riviera Beach police assisted with the capture. The group
comprised two women and 15 men, all adults, the border patrol reported.

Three weeks ago, 17 illegal immigrants came ashore in Palm Beach in a similar
manner. Such incidents are not uncommon, especially this time of year, McClarnon
said.

"Weather is a factor," he said. "If the seas are calm, it makes it more
conducive for someone to ride from the Bahamas and drop people off. It goes on
year-round. It's something that we deal with."

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              132 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FATAL CRASH SHOWS ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT LICENSE DILEMMA

BYLINE: By JOHN PACENTI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1072 words


Every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoon, County Judge Cory Ciklin knows
who's waiting in his courtroom for traffic arraignments: hundreds of immigrants
cited for driving without a license.

Most are in the United States illegally. Many are repeat offenders, including
some cited for driving without a license five times or more. Others have been in
serious accidents, but they don't have any insurance either.

When Ciklin asks why they don't have a driver license, the answer is always the
same: immigration problems. And nearly all walk out of court to drive again
after paying a fine of about $200.

Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza, 21, of West Palm Beach is one such immigrant.

Four times, the Mexico citizen was ticketed for driving without a license. On
Sunday, police say he stopped the 1988 Chevy Blazer he was driving in the middle
of Military Trail near Blue Pine Circle south of Lantana Road. Two motorcycles
behind him crashed into the Blazer.

Kimberly Jo Dahmer, riding on the back of her husband's 1996 Harley-Davidson,
was killed. Three others were injured.

"We are talking about repeat offenders. We are talking about accidents, and now
we are talking about a death," Ciklin said.

Ciklin estimated that 90 percent of his cases in criminal traffic court involve
motorists without valid driving licenses, most of them illegal immigrants. "Some
of these people are scared to death. They really believe Uncle Sam is hovering
over them and will immediately deport them," Ciklin said. "But the reality is
that is not even close to the truth. I have no idea why they are not being
deported."

The judge said almost all citation cases for driving without a license, a
second-degree misdemeanor, end in court costs of between $193 and $283. The
crime can carry a 60-day sentence.

Ciklin said he has started to refuse to accept arraignment pleas that do not
include jail time for repeat offenders. The defendant usually exercises his
option to continue the case to a trial judge downtown, where it usually is
resolved with court costs, Ciklin said.

Unlike with DUI or driving under a suspended license, there is no legal measure
in Florida for charging with a felony a driver who consistently refuses to get a
license, said Mike Edmondson, spokesman for State Attorney Barry Krischer.

For citizens, a traffic ticket can cost hundreds of dollars in fines and
increased insurance premiums or a lost Saturday in traffic school. Motorists
with valid driver licenses are assessed points for each traffic violation on
their record. If a motorist accrues too many points, insurance rates go up or a
license can be suspended.

Another county court judge, Barry Cohen, said it's unfair that licensed
motorists are treated more harshly than a driver who has never been licensed and
has a three-page driving record. So Cohen has started to sentence repeat
offenders on charges of driving without a valid license to some jail time.

"I think you have to draw the line somewhere," Cohen said. "I have mixed
feelings because I look at these people, especially the hardworking ones, and
they are struggling to make ends meet. But I can't just say, 'OK, you are exempt
from the driving licensing laws.' "

It's not hard to spot the illegal immigrant in court. He usually has no Social
Security number. Judges also say the immigrants are always ready to pay the
court costs with cash in hand.

So why don't authorities initiate deportation proceedings when illegal
immigrants show up in criminal traffic court?

In January 2004, Circuit Judge Roger B. Colton started alerting the U.S. Border
Patrol to such defendants. The Public Defender's Office said Colton was abusing
his judicial power.

In the 1990s, Palm Beach County was the site for a pilot program in which
immigration officials monitored courtrooms at the county jail looking for
illegal immigrants who have been charged with misdemeanors, such as traffic
crimes, Edmondson said. The program was discontinued.

In 2004, a bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants in Florida to obtain
driver licenses was abandoned in the legislature after law enforcement officials
complained about security concerns.

Zareefa Khan, a former prosecutor who is now a West Palm Beach immigration
attorney, said federal officials can't find out that an illegal immigrant has
entered the justice system unless police, prosecutors, jail clerks or probation
officers notify them.

Deportation officers usually won't deport someone for a traffic violation,
focusing on more serious felons, she said.

"Obviously, their priority is violent criminals," Khan said.

Mendoza remained in jail Wednesday charged with driving without a license in a
moving violation that causes death, and leaving the scene of an accident that
causes death. Investigators say he may face other charges.

Before Sunday's accident, Mendoza was cited three times for driving without a
license by the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, Greenacres police and the
Coconut Creek police in Broward County. A sheriff's deputy pulled him over a
fourth time in April 2004.

Mendoza tried to flee the crash scene, making a U-turn after the two motorcycles
smashed into him, according to the sheriff's office. Other motorcyclists riding
with the crash victims chased Mendoza, forcing him off the road and taking his
keys, according the sheriff's office.

Dahmer was ejected from the motorcycle driven by her husband, Steve, who was
hospitalized with serious injuries. The driver of the other motorcycle, Pierre
Nadeu, 49, of West Palm Beach, also was hospitalized with injuries. Steve Dahmer
and Nadeu were in fair condition at Delray Medical Center.

Dahmer, 42, was a mother of two from Lantana. She worked for five years for Palm
Beach Newspapers Inc. in the telemarketing department before leaving in
mid-2003.

Sheriff's spokeswoman Teri Barbera said Mendoza told investigators he is in the
country illegally. He said he stopped his SUV in the middle of the road to
retrieve a cellphone.

"He believed he saw it in a roadway," Barbera said. "He doesn't have any idea
what the rules of road are. He's never had a license."

Judge Ciklin said that is the issue. Driver licenses are obtained by motorists
who have proved they know the traffic signs and laws. Ciklin said illegal
immigrants, at the very least, need to be informed of the rules of the road and
public transportation options.

"The government is really backed into a corner on this one," Ciklin said.

john_pacenti@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza: Unlicensed illegal immigrant blamed in fatal
crash. (mug) 2. (B&W) GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer Flowers mark the spot on
Military Trail where Kimberly Jo Dahmer died Sunday when her husband's
motorcycle hit a vehicle that stopped abruptly.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              133 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION 'MOCKUMENTARY'

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 666 words


Mexicans make up more than half of the nation's illegal immigrant population of
at least 10 million, so it figures that Mexicans are the favored targets when
anti-immigrant activists talk about closing borders.

Sometimes there is even talk about "sending them all back where they came from."

What if this actually happened? What if Californians woke up one morning to find
out that all the Mexicans in the state had disappeared?

That is the premise of the satirical film - a mockumentary - called A Day
Without a Mexican, which in a limited release this year succeeded in offending
people on all sides of the immigration issue. Some Latinos called it racist.
Some activists called it a simplistic distortion or a misguided fable. Still
others didn't know what to make of it. But it would be hard to find someone who
didn't consider it thought-provoking.

For less than $2 million, first-time director Sergio Arau and his co-writer,
wife Yareli Arizmendi, made a surreal movie with a real statement: Without its
Latino population, California can't open for business in the morning.

In the film, a mysterious pink fog covers the state one night and spirits away
all its Latinos, about 15 million of them. The chaos the disappearance brings
touches every life. Wealthy families have to do their own housework and cooking.
Restaurants close down and supermarkets have no produce to sell. Unattended leaf
blowers spin wildly on the sidewalks. The Los Angeles Dodgers have to shut down
- but, naturally, the NBA goes on as scheduled. People riot at car washes and so
do students in classrooms without teachers.

The point is that U.S. immigration policy is compromised by a huge
contradiction: All those people who are here illegally are essential to the
nation's economy and to Americans' daily lives.

A Day Without a Mexican, in English with Spanish subtitles, will be shown free
on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the Duncan Theater at Palm Beach Community College,
4200 Congress Ave. in Lake Worth. The film is part of a seminar on immigration
sponsored by the Hispanic Jewish Committee of the American Jewish Committee.

"I don't think people really realize what this part of society contributes to
our daily lives," said the AJC's Yael Keren. "We have a love-hate relationship
with these people. We've created a dependence on them, but we say we don't want
them here. But what really would happen to us if all these undocumented people
would disappear?"

The AJC created a Latino and Latin American Institute in May to promote
Latino-Jewish issues and build stronger ties with Hispanic and Latin American
groups in the United States. More than 500,000 Jews live in Latin America. Last
month, the Palm Beach County chapter of the AJC donated $500 to Lake Worth Mayan
leaders to buy school supplies in rural Guatemalan villages.

The outreach between Jews and Mayans makes more sense than it may first appear.
Both are people who know something about fleeing persecution and leaving their
homelands to live in exile.

Ms. Keren says she hopes the movie and panel discussion afterward help promote
more thoughtful reflection on the immigration problem and less political
bombast, most of which is hypocritical.

"It's a much more complex issue than we often realize," she says. "We hope to
promote the kind of debate that sheds light."

Mr. Arau has the same goal with his film. He is the son of actor-director
Alfonso Arau, who made the critically acclaimed Like Water for Chocolate.

Mr. Arau and Ms. Arizmendi got the idea for A Day Without a Mexican 10 years
ago, when California voters were considering ballot initiatives that prohibited
immigrants from receiving social services.

What the movie really asks its viewers to do is to leave the theater and take an
honest look at the people who enter their lives each day. Behind the "illegal
immigrant" label are lots of human beings who are working to make America what
it is.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              134 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 30, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POSITIVES OF DEPORTING ILLEGALS WOULD DWARF THE NEGATIVES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 196 words


Dan Moffett's column "Immigration 'mockumentary' " (Oct. 16) is consistent with
his past advocacy for open borders and illegal immigration. It is true that the
economy would, for a while, be adversely affected by the loss of illegals. Some
would have to pay more for nannies and gardeners and other labor-intensive
services. The cost of food and construction would rise. These consequences,
however, would be short-lived.

Mr. Moffett fails to mention the positive results of removal of the illegals.
The cost of an emergency-room visit would decrease. The schools would be less
crowded and more able to cope with their educational tasks. The rate of
depletion of natural resources would decline. The agricultural industry would be
encouraged to develop non-labor-intensive ways to produce food. The roads and
streets would be less congested and safer. Wages for unskilled labor would rise,
and America's poverty rate would decline. The status of and respect for legal
immigrants would rise. Mexico and other countries would be encouraged to
restrain their unsustainable population growth. Last but not least, U.S.
immigration laws would be respected.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              135 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS LAND IN JUNO BEACH

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 309 words


Twenty illegal immigrants, including an 8-month-old infant and a pregnant woman,
beached a 28-foot boat near Seminole Golf course in Juno Beach before taking off
on foot shortly after 4 a.m. Monday, the U.S. Border Patrol said.

Some of the immigrants believed to have arrived on the vessel were found in Juno
Beach, Jupiter and Palm Beach Gardens. None resisted arrest, said Juno Beach
police Assistant Chief David Gregg, whose agency was one of five assisting in
the capture.

Two immigrants are Jamaican and the rest are Haitian, said Border Patrol
spokesman Michael McClarnon. The group included 10 men, one male teenager, eight
women and the infant, who was with his mother. The Border Patrol said all aboard
the vessel, which likely came via the Bahamas, were captured.

Juno Beach officers, responding to a 4:30 a.m. call at 12800 U.S. Highway 1,
first spotted the immigrants, catching three of them. Another officer later
found a woman in the late stages of pregnancy who was brought to St. Mary's
Medical Center after requesting medical treatment.

If "the baby would be born here, (the infant) might be considered a U.S.
citizen," McClarnon said. He said he could not comment on whether the mother
would be allowed to remain in the country.

The woman's health condition was unavailable late Monday.

After the initial spotting in Juno Beach, the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
deployed a helicopter, and as many as six immigrants were discovered in other
cities, Gregg said.

After daybreak, five more believed to be passengers on the Wellcraft Cabin
Cruiser, registered in Plantation, emerged from a wooded area north of the
Seminole Golf course, he said. Border Patrol or police apprehended all 20 by 7
a.m.

McClarnon said the immigrants will be taken to a Department of Homeland Security
facility for processing and hearings.

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              136 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STOP BORDER-CROSSING GANGSTERS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 693 words


After weeks of debate and months of offstage wrangling, a key U.S. House
committee last week approved an immigration bill that does nothing to address
the 11 million illegal immigrants who are in the country and next to nothing to
stop the flow of illegal traffic across the U.S.-Mexico border.

Disguised as legislation, it was little more than raw meat thrown into the cages
of political constituencies.

But, then, with Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., sitting as chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, real solutions for the nation's immigration problems
are impossible. Self-serving, inflammatory posturing is all we're likely to get.

The bill calls for creation of a database to help employers verify the
authenticity of foreign workers' Social Security numbers. It's unenforceable and
irrelevant anyway. Plenty of employers don't care whether an illegal immigrant
has a Social Security number.

The bill would stiffen sentences for people convicted of smuggling undocumented
immigrants into the country. The bill also would increase penalties for people
reentering the country illegally. For most smugglers and migrants, however,
nothing short of the death penalty is a meaningful deterrent. But let's not give
Rep. Sensenbrenner any ideas.

Another measure in the bill would bar illegal immigrants who are terrorists or
security risks from becoming U.S. citizens. If the nation really needs this,
we're all in trouble.

Some House Republicans are pushing the Sensenbrenner committee to go further.
They want to end birthright citizenship for immigrant children and build fences
along the Mexican border. Again, there's no plan for the 11 million illegal
immigrants already here and apparently no recognition that every day, migrants
scale fences to get here as it is.

"This legislation will help restore the integrity of our nation's borders," Rep.
Sensenbrenner said, "and reestablish respect for our laws by holding violators
accountable."

The bill would do for immigration reform what the banjo has done for classical
music. But House Republicans have to feed their base something, and this is the
a la carte menu.

One small part of the bill, however, does have some merit - a provision that
would make it easier for the government to prevent gang members from entering
the country and to deport them if they're here. It would allow the attorney
general to designate groups as criminal street gangs if they meet certain
criteria and bar undocumented gang members from receiving government benefits.

The spread of Latin American street gangs throughout South Florida is a growing
concern for law enforcement, particularly from St. Lucie to Palm Beach County.
Just last week in Lake Worth, a teenager was stabbed in a fight between two
rival gangs: the Maniac Gangsters and MLK (Makin' Life Krazy). The stabbing
occurred not far from the spot where an MLK member was killed in a drive-by
shooting last year.

Most of the worst street gangs have network structures and international
affiliations. They are much more than loose-knit neighborhood alliances. MLK,
for example, is a Guatemalan gang linked to EME, La Eme, the Mexican Mafia. Mara
Salvatrucha, or MS-13, is a Salvadoran gang with a record of killings and
kidnappings throughout Central America. It operates in Lake Worth, too. So does
M-18, a Mexican gang founded in Los Angeles.

The gang problem here is exacerbated by the difficulties immigrant families
encounter. Often, both parents work long hours and leave their children
unsupervised. They have trouble fitting in at school and assimilating into
American culture. Gang involvement comes easily.

In July, local, state and federal authorities held a gang summit in Jupiter.
Rep. Mark Foley, R-Jupiter, made the point that help for places such as Lake
Worth has to come from Washington. "The one thing these gangs fear," Rep. Foley
said, "is the federal government."

He's right, and gang leaders have something to worry about in the deportation
and arrest provisions that came out of the Sensenbrenner committee.

It's not much, but it is something.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              137 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOX'S POLICIES ONLY ENCOURAGE ILLEGAL EMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 245 words


After reading the editorial "House on immigration: Pandering, not reform" (Dec.
23), several questions come to mind. Has it not been a crime to hire illegal
immigrants, or to help or perpetrate acts of illegal immigration since 1986?

Is it the truth that illegal aliens fill jobs Americans don't want, or is it
that they will do jobs much more cheaply than Americans can afford to work for?
Maybe Americans just want a livable wage. If our economy would suffer from the
loss of the "irreplaceable contributions" that illegal immigrants make, how did
America survive before we had 11 million to 20 million of them?

Mexican President Vicente Fox shows again that he does not believe in borders
with America ("Mexicans irate about proposed wall," Dec. 21). President Fox is a
real piece of work. He cannot improve the lives of its deeply impoverished
citizens, so he encourages millions of poor Mexicans to enter this country
illegally so that they may return billions of dollars in remittances, which
helps the super-rich Mexicans get even richer.

While Mr. Fox is preaching to Americans about our immigration laws, Mexico's
immigration laws are more severe, with harsher penalties. While Mr. Fox is
running to the aid of what he calls "pioneers," he and his country treat its own
workers unjustly in every way possible. No wonder that according to the latest
polls, more than 40 percent of the people in Mexico would like to move north to
America.

DAVID LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              138 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHEAP LABOR, LIKE CHEAP OIL, MUST BE REPLACED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 235 words


Dan Moffett is correct to advocate for illegal immigrants on the basis that
America is addicted to their labor ("Illegal, essential, and in need," Feb. 19
column).

As it does with oil, the country has to break its dependency. It has to learn to
rely on technology, pay a living wage to agriculture workers and find other
means to live with its legal labor resources. What Mr. Moffett continues to
forget is that the cheap labor that the undocumented provided comes with a heavy
financial and social cost -- in fact, it can be very expensive. Foremost is the
exploitation of the illegal immigrant. No one, including the undocumented,
should be subjected to horrendous living conditions, abuse and substandard
wages.

What others forget is that the citizen-taxpayer subsidizes low-cost vegetables
that are harvested by illegals. Hospitals pass on their expenses for caring for
these workers to the general public; the cost and the educational drag that
their children cause decrease the ability of public schools to educate citizen
children; wages of citizens are depressed; the development of new farm and
harvesting technologies are discouraged.

Most annoying is Mr. Moffett's praise for the Florida grower-legislators who
advocate state money to help the undocumented. It is easy to understand why they
do - they seek to use the public money to subsidize their industry's labor
costs.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              139 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                                  WEST EDITION

FATAL-CRASH PROBE STARTS WITH LICENSE ISSUE

BYLINE: By ROCHELLE E.B. GILKEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 435 words


The pickup truck driver who allegedly ran a red light, killing a popular middle
school principal, is being detained as an undocumented immigrant while
investigators try to determine whether he had a valid driver's license.

Cesar Mejia, 30, is in the Krome Detention Center near Miami for entering the
country without documentation from Mexico, said U.S. Border Patrol spokesman
Steve McDonald. Mejia was driving a Dodge Ram 1500 with Georgia license plates
on the Beeline Highway when he crossed paths with Margaret "Peggy" Campbell's
small white Subaru at Pratt Whitney Roadabout 7:30 a.m. Wednesday.

The four passengers with Mejia are also being detained as undocumented
immigrants. They will all face deportation hearings, but Mejia's hearing will
likely be postponed if he is charged criminally.

"We've asked them not to send him back before we get a chance to do our work,"
said Palm Beach County sheriff's Sgt. John Churchill.

Crash investigators have not yet cited Mejia. It could take a week or more to
determine whether the Mexico driver's license he carried is valid, Churchill
said.

"It's really really hard to find out if things are valid in any foreign country
except Canada," Churchill said. "It's another country. They have a big
diplomatic procedure."

Churchill said that it is rare for the driver in a serious wreck to have a
license from another country. Often, among undocumented immigrants, the driver
has no license at all, Churchill said.

"If the crash is their fault and they don't have a driver's license, it's a
criminal case. Under Florida law, if it's valid, then he can actually legally
drive here," Churchill said. However, even with a valid license, he could still
be cited for causing the fatal crash.

Churchill said the sheriff's office put a request through the International
Criminal Police Organization - Interpol - to verify the license. He said it
often takes a week or more to get a response.

While the crash investigation continues, grief counselors remained at Western
Pines Middle School, where Campbell had been the principal since the school
opened in 1997. She had worked for the school district since 1967.

The family will hold a memorial service for Campbell at 2 p.m. Saturday at St.
John's Church in Lake Park, said her son, Jason Campbell. The family asks that
memorial donations be made in her name to any educational charity or to the
Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Campbell was a former patient of the clinic and a
fund-raiser for the foundation, Campbell said.

Staff writer Rani Gupta and staff researcher Melanie Mena contributed to this
story.

rochelle_gilken@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & MAP (C)
 1. Margaret "Peggy" Campbell (mug) 2. STEVE LOPEZ/Staff Artist Accident
location

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              140 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DRIVER IN CRASH THAT KILLED POPULAR PRINCIPAL BEING HELD

BYLINE: By ROCHELLE E.B. GILKEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 436 words


The pickup truck driver who allegedly ran a red light, killing a popular middle
school principal, is being detained as an undocumented immigrant while
investigators try to determine whether he had a valid driver's license.

Cesar Mejia, 30, is in the Krome Detention Center near Miami for entering the
country without documentation from Mexico, said U.S. Border Patrol spokesman
Steve McDonald. Mejia was driving a Dodge Ram 1500 with Georgia license plates
on the Beeline Highway when he crossed paths with Margaret "Peggy" Campbell's
small white Subaru at Pratt Whitney Roadcq about 7:30 a.m. Wednesday.

The other four passengers with Mejia are also being detained as undocumented
immigrants. They will all face deportation hearings, but Mejia's hearing will
likely be postponed if he is charged criminally.

"We've asked them not to send him back before we get a chance to do our work,"
said Palm Beach County sheriff's Sgt. John Churchill.

Crash investigators have not yet cited Mejia. It could take a week or more to
determine whether the Mexico driver's license he carried is valid, Churchill
said.

"It's really really hard to find out if things are valid in any foreign country
except Canada," Churchill said. "It's another country. They have a big
diplomatic procedure."

Churchill said that it is rare for the driver in a serious wreck to have a
license from another country. Often, among undocumented immigrants, the driver
has no license at all, Churchill said.

"If the crash is their fault and they don't have a driver's license, it's a
criminal case. Under Florida law, if it's valid, then he can actually legally
drive here," Churchill said. However, even with a valid license, he could still
be cited for causing the fatal crash.

Churchill said the sheriff's office put a request through the International
Criminal Police Organization - Interpol - to verify the license. He said it
often takes a week or more to get a response.

While the crash investigation continues, grief counselors remained at Western
Pines Middle School, where Campbell had been the principal since the school
opened in 1997. She had worked for the school district since 1967.

The family will hold a memorial service for Campbell at 2 p.m. Saturday at St.
John's Church in Lake Park, said her son, Jason Campbell. The family asks that
memorial donations be made in her name to any educational charity or to the
Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Campbell was a former patient of the clinic and a
fund-raiser for the foundation, Campbell said.

Staff writer Rani Gupta and staff researcher Melanie Mena contributed to this
story.

rochelle_gilken@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run West.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Margaret Campbell (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              141 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DAY LABORERS? TRY AISLE 12

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 712 words


New research from the Pew Hispanic Center suggests that U.S. immigration policy
again is making matters worse instead of better.

The federal government's efforts to secure the border with Mexico seem to have
been only half-effective. Undocumented migrants are still streaming north into
the United States, but they are having a hard time making the trip south back to
their homes.

The net result is that the undocumented population continues to grow here. Based
on Census Bureau data, Pew researchers put the number of illegal immigrants at
11.5 million to 12 million, up from 11.1 million last year and 8.5 million six
years ago. More than half are from Mexico.

Increased security measures along the border have made crossing more dangerous
by forcing migrants to take more difficult routes. People who have suffered and
risked their lives to get here are more inclined to stay than risk another
crossing. And the demand for their work is as strong as ever.

You don't have to go to Texas or Arizona to get a feel for the dynamics that are
driving the migration -- just hit the neighborhood Home Depot early on a weekday
morning.

You're likely to see U.S. citizens cruising in pickups through the parking lot,
looking to pick up day workers for about any kind of job you can imagine. The
men who hop in the trucks are almost always undocumented immigrants, usually
from Mexico or Central America.

A week ago, the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office got a call from the Home
Depot west of Lake Worth. The store's manager complained about the unauthorized
job fair that was going on in his lot. Sheriff's deputies came and arrested 15
Guatemalan and Mexican laborers. The charge was misdemeanor trespassing with
warning; deputies had been to the store several times and told the men not to
hang out. Bilingual "no trespassing" signs the sheriff posted didn't stop them,
either.

Jupiter hopes to avoid such confrontations by starting a job center to move
workers off street corners. Lake Worth thought it had a handle on the problem
several months ago when the city tried to direct day laborers to hook up with
employers at the downtown shuffleboard courts. But the idea had a
counterintuitive quality that transcends race, ethnicity and immigration status.

Say you're looking for roofing or landscaping work. Does it make more sense to
hang out at the shuffleboard courts, or The Home Depot?

In fact, the parking lots of Home Depots across the country are becoming job
centers for the legions of undocumented workers. The company doesn't like it,
citing safety risks for customers. Last month, police in Orange County, Calif.,
arrested nine day laborers outside a Home Depot. The Los Angeles-based National
Day Labor Organizing Network is protesting the arrests by sponsoring a
cross-country "run for dignity." A dozen day laborers are making the run from
California to New York City to raise awareness about exploitation and
discrimination.

The Pew researchers already have an acute awareness of the important role
undocumented workers play in the economy.

According to the survey, about 7.2 million of them were employed last year,
accounting for about 4.9 percent of the U.S. civilian work force. Undocumented
workers hold a large share of the low-paying jobs in the agriculture, service
and construction industries. They make up 24 percent of all farmworkers, 17
percent of cleaners and housekeepers, 14 percent of construction workers and 12
percent of food preparers.

Last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee backed a proposal that would almost
double the number of border patrol agents, most of them for the U.S.-Mexico
line. Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., soon will have the committee debate what
should become of the 12 million undocumented immigrants that tighter border
controls and ample job opportunities will harbor here.

Gradually, lawmakers seem to be drifting toward a grudging compromise that tries
to close the door on new arrivals and yet acknowledges the reality about who's
already here and what they're contributing.

Until the federal government makes that ideological peace with itself, cops will
stay busy at Home Depots and more migrants will die in the desert.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              142 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHAT ABOUT IMMIGRANTS STILL TRYING FOR CITIZENSHIP?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 228 words


I am writing in response to yet another article in The Post addressing the
illegal immigration issue, this one concerning proposed legislation that would
allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship ("Bill removes citizen barrier for
11 million illegal aliens," March 28).

While I have sympathy, and a certain amount of empathy, for all who seek to live
and work in the United States, I am left wondering whether something might not
be done to make access to citizenship easier for those of us who try to obtain
it legally. I have been in the U.S. for more than 10 years, first as a graduate
student and now as a worker on a temporary visa. At all times, I have had the
correct documentation (sometimes at considerable personal expense), paid taxes
and abided by the laws of this country. Yet, after 10 years of being here
legally, I find myself no closer to obtaining either permanent residency or
citizenship. In trying to remain "legal," I constantly find myself up against
roadblocks.

If this legislation passes, it would seem that my best chance of obtaining
citizenship would be to leave and reenter the country illegally. How ironic.
Perhaps the government might make better use of its time helping those of us who
try to obey the laws of this country rather than making things easier for those
who disregard the current immigration laws.

PATRICIA GAITELY

Greenacres

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              143 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEMONSTRATORS EXTORTED IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 226 words


As a first-generation American, I certainly have no problem with immigration --
legal immigration ("Bill removes citizen barrier for 11 million illegal aliens,"
March 28). My parents came here from Europe. They learned the language. They
became citizens, got an education and lifted themselves from poverty by their
own bootstraps.

If so many of the jobs available require illegals, there are two simple
solutions. Although I am willing to pay more for my vegetables to put the
country back on track, I suspect that most Americans are not willing to see the
agricultural industry pay a decent wage so these jobs would not require illegal
immigrants because "Americans won't do them." They'd do those jobs fast enough
if we withheld welfare benefits from those who wouldn't work, wouldn't they?

To "lock the barn door after the horse escaped" (beef up our border with Mexico)
is ridiculous unless we also fix the problem of the illegals already here. I
would prefer to see them have to return to their own country and then apply for
legitimate immigration and citizenship rather than be granted the opportunity
now, simply because they are here.

What if illegal drug users and other criminals demonstrated for a "free life"?
Would we simply hand it to them on a silver platter because they can turn out in
large numbers? I don't think so.

CAROL BELMER

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              144 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SET 'WALK FOR JUSTICE'

BYLINE: By ALLYSON BIRD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 211 words


While Congress considers the merits of helping undocumented immigrants become
citizens, local proponents plan to take to the street.

Organizers expect thousands to turn out in Fort Pierce Monday for what they're
calling a Walk for Justice in support of undocumented immigrants.

The rally begins at 3 p.m. at Rotary Park and will wind up to U.S. 1 and back.
Ivonne Fraga, publisher of La Voz , said those walking will wear white T-shirts
and display flags from their native countries, in addition to the American flag.

Fraga said people from supporting organizations across the county have donated
time to help coordinate the walk and to clean up afterward.

"You're not going to see only illegal people walking," she said.

Irma Cabriales, president of the Latin American Coalition of St. Lucie County,
said organizers have been advertising the event through radio, fliers and
newspaper announcements. The event will coincide with marches in cities across
the state and nation, and Cabriales expects people from Hispanic communities
outside of St. Lucie County to come in for the rally.

"This is our opportunity," she said. "They're in the dark. They don't have
benefits."

Cabriales came from Mexico 20 years ago herself.

"I know how they feel," she said.

allyson_bird@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              145 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ONLY ONE OF EIGHT IN STORY ENTERED THE U.S. LEGALLY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 150 words


A front-page story Wednesday featured eight undocumented immigrants who all have
one thing in common, except for Juliana Rangel (" 'We came here to work, and
that's what we do,' " April 5).

Other than Ms. Rangel, they all are here illegally. Vicente Torres states: "We
are not criminals. We didn't come here to commit crimes." I believe that those
featured didn't come here to commit crimes. Except for Ms. Rangel, however, they
all committed a crime to get here. Forging green cards, sneaking across the
border and overstaying visas all are criminal acts.

How long can we put U.S. citizens in danger by leaving our borders so
vulnerable? How long can we foot the $65 billion-per-year cost of providing
services to cover 12 million illegal immigrants? Our "political leaders" need to
get serious before we are either bankrupted or we sustain another 9/11-type
attack on our soil.

JOHN SENG

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              146 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IT'S APPARENT WHICH WAY POST LEANS ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 125 words


Gee, I know where this newspaper stands on the immigration issue. A business
that hires an immigrant or illegal should be required to supply full health
insurance (including maternity coverage), pay his or her car insurance so real
Americans' insurance rates can decrease (because of the need for uninsured
motorist coverage), and on and on. These businesses want their cake - then they
should eat it, too.

We Florida taxpayers must bear that burden. If businesses hiring illegals can't
handle the extra burden, then send the illegals home. I can't believe that The
Post put that bleeding-heart article on the front page (" 'We came here to work,
and that's what we do' " April 5)! Look at the facts - they entered illegally.

JOSEPH F. KUEHN

Port St. Lucie

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              147 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SEEKING POLITICAL SECURITY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 278 words


Millions of demonstrators was evidence enough to convince the two top
Republicans in Congress that the party had better start to soften its extreme
positions on immigration - or else.

It is an election year, and while many demonstrators were illegal immigrants who
cannot vote, millions of their relatives and supporters can and will. Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., and House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.,
got the message. They issued a joint statement this week saying that they intend
"to produce a strong border security bill that will not make unlawful presence
in the United States a felony."

Led by Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the House
passed a bill late last year that would make illegal immigrants felons and
threatened prosecution for charities and advocates who provided them
humanitarian aid. The Senate's efforts to write a broader, more moderate bill
stalled before the current two-week recess.

Sen. Frist and Rep. Hastert backpedaled toward the middle ground as several
pollsters found that roughly two-thirds of Americans oppose making illegal
immigrants felons. Pollsters also are finding that Democrats have a legitimate
chance at taking over one or both houses in November. The GOP leadership's
reversal is more self-preservation than conversion.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., described it best: "Actions speak louder than
words, and there's no running away from the fact that the Republican House
passed a bill, and Sen. Frist offered one, that criminalizes immigrants." The
people in the streets and their families are much more likely to remember that
if the leaders' joint statement is nothing but words.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              148 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GALLAGHER WON'T PUT NUMBER ON MINORITIES

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Tom Gallagher told members of two minority chambers of commerce Monday that he
will name minorities to his administration if he is elected governor but
declined, when asked, to be more specific.

Gallagher, the state's chief financial officer, was attending a meeting of the
Black Chamber of Commerce of Palm Beach County and the Florida State Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce in West Palm Beach Monday night when he was asked if he
could "give the number of Hispanic, black and women you plan to place . . . in
positions that are visible."

"I won't give you a number," Gallagher said.

The GOP candidate went on to say that he will not start thinking about
appointments "until I'm doing the job." Gallagher said that as chief financial
officer and former education commissioner and insurance commissioner, he always
appointed qualified minorities and women.

"I think it is important to match our population as close as you can on
appointments," Gallagher said.

Gallagher also took a tough line on immigration, saying that he would not allow
illegal immigrants to participate in guest-worker programs or attain citizenship
until the United States has "closed our borders. That has to be done first."

He said if the nation closes the borders, only then should Congress consider
other programs for the millions of illegal immigrants already here.

Asked about nuclear power plants, Gallagher said that he supports building new
plants in Florida to hold down the cost of energy.

"It's about time," Gallagher said. "We haven't had a nuclear power plant built
in more than 30 years. . . . The least expensive kilowatt of energy comes from
nuclear power. It is a necessity. We need to have it."

Gallagher will return to West Palm Beach at noon Thursday when he and his rival
for the Republican nomination, Attorney General Charlie Crist, make a joint
appearance before the Forum Club of the Palm Beaches at the Kravis Center.

- brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              149 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MONDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 657 words


No cutting line at busy eatery

Even being the de facto governor doesn't get you a table at a popular
Tallahassee restaurant.

So learned Lt. Gov. Toni Jennings, who represented the pinnacle of executive
branch power in Florida Monday with Gov. Jeb Bush overseas in Afghanistan.

It still wasn't enough to swing a table for four at Kool Beanz Cafe, a capital
city eatery that doesn't take reservations and fills up for lunch by a quarter
to 12. She could wait, she learned, or sit at the bar.

She chose to pass.

Bush continued the Middle East tour that he began Friday, meeting Monday with
Florida National Guard troops serving in Afghanistan before a scheduled visit
with Afghan President Hamid Karzai. More than 1,200 Florida soldiers are serving
in Afghanistan, and more than 350 soldiers are on active duty in Iraq and
Kuwait, according to Bush's office.

Illegal immigrants would be considered Florida residents for college and
university tuition purposes under a bill passed in the House Appropriations
Committee. The bill (HB119) would allow students, including illegal immigrants
or the children of illegal immigrants, to pay resident tuition if they have
lived in Florida at least three years before enrolling in school, have attended
a Florida high school for at least three years and have filed an affidavit with
the university saying they will legalize their immigration status. A similar
Senate bill (SB 366) is scheduled to be heard in the Domestic Security Committee
on Thursday.

The Senate Ways and Means Committee approved the repeal of the final portion of
the "intangibles tax" on stocks, bonds and other securities held outside
retirement accounts. The tax, which Republican leaders started eliminating in
1999, now affects almost exclusively the wealthiest 2 percent of Floridians. The
only "no" votes were from two Democrats, Sens. Les Miller of Tampa and Rod Smith
of Alachua. Smith, who is running for governor, said he would not back the tax
cut until Florida teachers earn as much as those in Georgia and the state has
paid for its other pressing needs.

A bill that would require the driver licenses of people convicted of a sex
offense to indicate they are a registered sex offender or sex predator was
approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The bill (HB 7117) is an attempt
by legislators to make last year's Jessica Lunsford Act easier to follow by
making it possible to check the status of an offender without background
screening. The Senate Education Appropriations Committee considers a similar
bill today.

QUOTES OF THE DAY

'I do know that the biggest crisis in Florida is this.'

SENATE INSURANCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN RUDY GARCIA

R-Hialeah, on the committee's deciding to send $750 million to help bail out
Citizens Property Insurance.

'I am becoming convinced that this is Humpty-Dumpty.'

SEN. SKIP CAMPBELL

D-Coral Springs, on his belief that the same Senate bill fails to fix the
fundamental problem.

COMING UP TODAY

The House is scheduled to meet in session, where members may give initial
approval to a bill that would create a weeklong sales tax holiday on hurricane
supplies and Rep. Adam Hasner's proposal to spend $120 million over four years
on biomedical research projects throughout the state.

In the Senate:

The Ethics and Elections Committee is scheduled to vote on a bill that would
allow retailers that sell hunting and fishing licenses to register voters, too.
That committee also is slated to confirm Agency for Health Care Administration
Secretary Alan Levine, appointed by Gov. Jeb Bush more than a year ago.

The Communications and Public Utilities Committee will discuss statewide cable
franchising by local governments and telephone service providers.

The Community Affairs Committee will take up a bill that would require new gas
stations to be equipped with back-up power generators.

- Compiled from reports by staff writers S.V. Date, Alan Gomez, Dara Kam and
Kimberly Miller, and The Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. LEGISLATURE 2006 Day 42 Session runs through May 5.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Photo from www.flgov.com Gov. Jeb Bush chats with Air Force Col. Hyde (first
name not available) Friday in Kuwait. Bush is among four governors on a tour of
the Middle East.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              150 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION IS NOT ENOUGH FOR ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT DRIVER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 162 words


I am the sister-in-law of Kimberly Jo Dahmer and sister of Steve Dahmer, who
were in a fatal crash ("Man gets six months for role in deadly crash," April 4).

Kimberly is sadly missed by many, including myself. Steve is still in a lot of
pain. The illegal immigrant who caused this accident got a slap on the wrist.

If this had happened to a 21-year-old American, he would be in prison. This was
Daniel Mendoza's fourth time being arrested for not having a driver license. All
men should be treated equally. I was in the courtroom that day, and it made me
sick. Illegal immigrants should suffer the same penalties as Americans would, no
matter what.

Why should the court system give this illegal immigrant his freedom? He left the
scene of the accident. This illegal immigrant will be deported, but he probably
will be back in the United States in a week. As if the Dahmer family hasn't been
through enough. Mendoza should have to pay like anybody else.

DEBBIE DAHMER

Port St. Lucie

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              151 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PARKER, LIKE DOBBS, MISSES POINT ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 128 words


Like Lou Dobbs of CNN, columnist Kathleen Parker misses, or at least ignores,
the true nature of the illegal immigration problem ("Fair policy beats a bigger
ark," April 15).

People will continue to find ways to enter this country, tunneling or climbing
-- even getting shot at -- until what they want is not available. That's jobs.
There is virtually no enforcement of laws against hiring illegal immigrants, so
low-paying jobs are plentiful for members of the cheap foreign labor pool -- as
President Bush so desires.

Clamp down on the corporations. Take away the jobs. Fine corporations. If they
continue to break the law, arrest the CEOs. That's the answer. With Mr. Bush in
the White House, we're living in the United Corporations of America.

ROB MacGREGOR

Wellington

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              152 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RAIDS AREN'T A SUBSTITUTE FOR REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 458 words


Last week, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced an offensive
against employers who hire illegal immigrants. He said the government wouldn't
focus on making arrests in "onesies and twosies" but wanted to crack down
against large businesses with numerous offenses.

But across South Florida, federal agents have heightened enforcement efforts
against individuals in recent weeks and are stopping, arresting and deporting
illegal immigrants outside Home Depots and supermarkets, on street corners and
in living rooms.

Angela Cardenas, a 20-year-old John I. Leonard High School graduate who lives
west of West Palm Beach, worked the late shift at a gas station/food store and
returned home to find that Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents had
arrested her parents in the middle of the night. The family came here five years
ago from Colombia, then overstayed their visas. Her parents, who had jobs and no
criminal records, were deported within two weeks. Ms. Cardenas and her
6-year-old brother must join them next month. "We did nothing wrong here except
for not having our visas," she said. "We had no warning."

Government agents have made arrests at construction sites in Martin County and
near a Wal-Mart in St. Lucie County. Day laborers who used to line up and look
for work each morning in West Palm Beach's Northwood neighborhood and in Lake
Worth or Jupiter are staying off the streets. Advocates are warning immigrants
to avoid Latin restaurants and other public places, leading up to Monday's
national student and workers' boycott. "It is a concerted effort by the
government to influence the boycott," said Marisol Zequeira Burke, a Stuart
immigration lawyer, "and it is having a chilling effect."

The political impasse in Washington has amplified fear and divisions at the
local level. On Tuesday, President Bush met privately with a bipartisan group of
a dozen senators and urged comprehensive reform. To satisfy Democrats, the bill
must have a path to legal status; to satisfy Republicans, it must improve border
control and enforcement. Raids and arrests in South Florida are part of the GOP
satisfaction efforts.

Rather than enact meaningful reform, Congress plays political budget games. The
Senate voted to shift $1.9 billion from Iraq to border security. Congress still
can't muster the courage to write the right checks for the right reasons.

President Bush still may have enough political power to broker a constructive
compromise. Thousands of immigrants who will miss work Monday still may have the
chance to affirm their importance to all Americans. More selective arrests and
deportations appear to be the unavoidable consequence of the nation's failed
policy and hypocrisy about what the nation really wants.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              153 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LEGALLY EDUCATE ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 396 words


It's consistent with the nation's conflicted views on immigration that the
Legislature feels strongly both ways when it comes to deciding whether to allow
children of illegal immigrants the same in-state college tuition rates as
Floridians.

In 2003 and 2004, the Senate unanimously passed legislation giving students who
are illegal immigrants the reduced tuition. The bill moved through the House
without opposition during both sessions, but the Republican leadership stopped
it each time from reaching the floor.

Positions abruptly reversed last year when the House supported the idea in a
bill sponsored by Rep. Juan Zapata, R-Miami, but then the Senate balked. This
year, it's the same story. After moving through the House, HB 119 has run
aground in the Senate. The most powerful opposition has come from Senate
President Tom Lee, R-Brandon, who says he fears that the bill would promote more
illegal immigration and that the Legislature shouldn't underwrite unlawful
activity -- views he didn't have in '03 and '04 when he voted for approval.

Rep. Zapata's latest version would allow illegal residents to qualify for
tuition breaks if they have attended public schools in Florida for three
consecutive years. Only 2,000 top-ranked students are eligible, and they are
excluded from Bright Futures and other state-run scholarship programs. The cost
savings for the immigrants would be substantial -- perhaps $12,000 a year at the
University of Florida, for example.

Eight states already allow illegal immigrants to pay the same fees -- including
New York, California, Texas and Illinois, which have large immigrant
populations. In Congress, a similar measure called the DREAM Act (Development,
Relief and Education for Alien Minorities Act) -- which would guarantee the
in-state rates to the 65,000 illegal immigrants who graduate from high school
each year -- is stalled over the same objections as in Florida.

Gov. Bush supports Rep. Zapata's bill, correctly believing that good students,
regardless of their immigration status, are worth the investment and will
contribute to the state's future. Misplaced blame remains the biggest obstacle.
Senate Republicans want to punish children for the violations of their parents
and look politically tough doing it. Motivated, successful students shouldn't be
made scapegoats for the nation's failure to solve its immigration problems.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              154 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WE SAY WE DON'T WANT ILLEGALS HERE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 658 words


Monday will be memorable in Florida for the things that won't get done.

Lawns will go unmowed, dishes will go unwashed, vegetables will go unpicked and
buildings will go unbuilt.

It is elegant irony that an invisible population intends to make itself visible
by disappearing for a day.

Across the state, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants will do just that as
part of a national boycott of jobs and schools. Workers will abandon the fields
in Immokalee, hotels in Orlando, restaurants in Tampa and construction sites in
West Palm Beach to participate in a call to consciousness that organizers are
calling "A Day Without Immigrants" - and also, "A Day of Respect."

There are three points to make. One is to express opposition to the U.S. House
bill passed in December that would make illegal immigrants felons and people who
help them criminally liable. Another is to persuade Congress to pass
comprehensive reform legislation that opens a path to legal residency for the
nation's 12 million illegal residents. And, also, to make U.S. citizens
appreciate the contributions that illegal workers make to the economy - to make
Americans notice in tangible ways what would be missing from their daily lives
without immigrant labor.

Legions of workers who can ill afford to lose a day's pay are willing to do so
in the hope of making the statement. The boycott has the support of the AFL-CIO
and SEIU (Service Employees International Union), who are telling members to
stay off the job. Immigrant advocates and church officials are planning to urge
employers not to fire workers who participate.

The immigration debate is close to overdosing on contradiction and paradox.

Consider the predicament of the Florida farmers. May is a critical harvesting
month, yet the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association has no choice but to
support the boycott - up to a point - because without reforms and a guest-worker
program from Congress, farmers will continue to struggle to maintain a stable
workforce. Jay Taylor, owner of Taylor & Fulton farms, a fruit and vegetable
grower in Florida and Virginia, is shutting down operations Monday so hundreds
of his workers can attend rallies.

Contradiction reaches to Mexico and comes with a dollar sign. Mexican lawmakers
voted to support the work stoppage at the expense of their economy. After the
petroleum industry, remittances from the United States are the second-biggest
source of Mexican revenues.

Consider also the nature of contradiction in California. The state Senate last
week passed a resolution that officially recognizes and supports the protest -
even as public education officials were pleading with students not to skip
school.

Rallies, marches and speeches are planned across the nation this weekend, with
organizers expecting larger turnouts than three weeks ago.

Police in Chicago and Los Angeles are preparing for crowds of 500,000.
Organizers in Fort Myers are predicting 100,000 marchers. Thousands are expected
to gather along Flagler Drive in downtown West Palm Beach this morning.

It's fitting that life should imitate art at a time like this. Consider the
once-obscure independent film A Day Without a Mexican, released in 2004 for an
uneventful run at a limited number of theaters.

The movie tells the surreal story of a mysterious pink fog that covers
California one night and spirits away all its Latinos, about 15 million of them.
The chaos the disappearance brings touches every life. Wealthy families have to
do their own housework, restaurants close, and unattended leaf blowers spin
wildly on the sidewalks.

Within recent weeks, rentals of A Day Without a Mexican have spiked, and the
film has become for the immigrant cause what M*A*S*H was to the antiwar
movement.

One line from the movie has reached mantra status: "How do you make the
invisible visible?"

Monday, Americans may find out.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              155 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CRACKDOWN ON EMPLOYERS WILL STOP IMMIGRANT TIDE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A LETTERS TO THE EDITORHOW TO WRITE THE POST

LENGTH: 164 words


A report about the latest move by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
on immigration makes a lot of sense ("Feds taking aim at illegals' hirers,"
April 21).

Getting tough with those who hire illegal immigrants is the only thing that will
stop the flow. Most thinking people know that cheap, illegal-immigrant labor is
not cheap because the taxpayers end up paying in the end. The real lawbreakers
are those who profit in this illegal act; those who pay undocumented workers.
Getting tough on them (not the immigrants) is the compassionate way to go. After
all, those who hire are making money at our expense and should pay.

This would not only put the illegal immigrants out of work (they would have to
return to their countries), but it would help our unemployment situation. We
would put American citizens back to work and off the welfare rolls. They will do
the work if the pay is right.

Let's get the pay right by enforcing the law against those who hire.

JAMES HAMLIN

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              156 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ON 'DAY WITHOUT,' MANY SPEAK OUT, TAKE TO THE STREET

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES and PILAR ULIBARRI de RIVERA Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1167 words


From church pews to picnic tables to city sidewalks, thousands of undocumented
immigrants, along with a few who have legal status, took to the streets in Palm
Beach County and the Treasure Coast Monday to ask legislators for fair
immigration reform.

Chanting slogans such as "Today we march, tomorrow we vote" and "Yes, we can do
it," children and adults gathered at rallies and religious services to voice
support of legislation that would grant legal status to the close to 12 million
undocumented workers in the country.

The events were part of a national movement, Un Dia Sin Inmigrantes (A Day
Without Immigrants), that featured businesses shutting down, employees
boycotting work and students skipping school to demonstrate the impact
immigrants have on the U.S. economy. In Florida, officials said about 40,000
protested, but organizers put the number closer to 50,000.

About 20,000 waved flags from the U.S., Haiti and Latin American nations during
a march through downtown Orlando. In Miami, demonstrators recited the Pledge of
Allegiance and sang The Star-Spangled Banner at the Orange Bowl.

In New York, demonstrators formed human chains at several points. In Chicago,
more than 300,000 marched for miles and waved flags.

Lizzet Martinez, an eighth-grader at Indiantown Middle School, skipped classes
to help her parents display a sign at a rally at Fort Pierce's Rotary Park,
where about 1,500 gathered.

"God, Love, Peace, Work and Legalization. Say no to modern-day slavery," read
the sign that the student hand-painted with her mother and father, both
immigrants from Mexico.

Martinez, 14, who wants to be a landscape designer, said taking a day off from
school was nothing compared with the possibility of not going to college because
she has no Social Security number and is often ineligible for scholarships.

"We deserve the right to have our papers," Martinez said.

Celso Toc, a 31-year-old supervisor of a landscaping company in Jupiter,
traveled from Indiantown to Fort Pierce with 25 others from his hometown of
Totonikapan, Guatemala.

"All of us Hispanics have to unite," Toc said. "We deserve respect for the work
we do to support this country. Don't they realize that without Hispanics, this
country is nothing?"

In West Palm Beach, an impromptu demonstration formed outside St. Juliana
Catholic Church as a bilingual Mass began, celebrating the feast of St. Joseph,
The Worker. The Mass was organized to pray for the nation's immigrants.

"The people who come here to work for the betterment of their families sometimes
live in fear," said the Rev. Alfredo Hernandez, St. Juliana's pastor, during his
homily. "Today we focus on the dignity of the work and the dignity of the
worker."

A gathering of about 100 people at nearby Phipps Park soon grew to more than
500.

"It was a little surprising to us," said Sister Vivian Gonzalez, Hispanic
ministries director for the Diocese of Palm Beach. "We weren't expecting this
demonstration, but I'm very proud of them because they're showing they can be
organized."

Lorena Rodriguez cradled her 5-month-old baby as her 11-year-old son ran around
waving an American flag. Rodriguez, 29, said she never imagined being divorced
and a single mom at age 26 in Argentina.

"There was no way to get ahead over there," she said. "So I made the decision to
sell everything and move here."

The need to make a living also brought Salvadoran Armando Fernandez to the U.S.

"I came to this country out of necessity, to help my family," said Fernandez,
23, of West Palm Beach. "Every 15 days I send them money so they can live."

At Belle Glade's Pioneer Park, a crowd of more than 1,000 walked 5 miles through
city streets chanting "Si se puede" (Yes we can) at a rally organized by ACORN
and Sonia Barajas, a senior at Glades Central High School.

"The message is clear. We are united and nothing can happen to us," said
Barajas, the daughter of Mexican immigrants.

Some Palm Beach County schools with large Hispanic populations reported more
absentees than usual.

"It seems a little bit lighter, even for a Monday," said Glenn Heyward,
principal at Santaluces High School near Lantana, where about a third of
students are Hispanic.

Palm Beach Lakes High School may have headed off a walkout by having an
immigration forum last week for students to express their views, Principal Nate
Collins said.

In St. Lucie County, dozens of Hispanic-owned businesses and some Haitian
entrepreneurs shut down their stores.

Juan Duque, an insurance agent from Colombia, closed his offices in Indiantown,
Okeechobee and Clewiston. Isabel Williams, originally from Guatemala, who owns
Lighthouse Lending Group in Stuart, shut down her office despite the possibility
of losing close to $30,000.

"I came here when I was a year old, and I didn't suffer through this, but my mom
did," Williams said. "You have to stand up for the ones that cannot fight for
themselves."

In Palm Beach County, Betty Gonzalez, from Argentina, decided to shut down her
wood paneling company to support those with the same dream she once had.

"The only crime they commit is working hard and paying their taxes," she said.

Guillermo Arango, owner of La Reina supermarket in Lake Worth, closed his
business at the request of his customers. "We have to support the rally and our
clients," he said.

In West Palm Beach, the Havana restaurant and El Bodegon supermarket also closed
their doors.

Several construction sites were slowed by absent workers, according to scattered
reports from home builders across the state. In Central Florida, some builders
were shut down for the day, said Edie Ousley, spokeswoman for the
Tallahassee-based Florida Home Builders Association.

Several construction trades were hit hard, including drywall, framing, trim,
masonry and landscaping jobs.

"They're just not showing up on the job," Ousley said.

The Haitian community also had its say. Lesly Jacques' radio show on WHSR-AM 980
in Boca Raton was inundated with phone calls from Haitian listeners who said
they refused to go to work. And though Jacques went to work at the station, he
kept his own store in Pompano Beach closed in protest.

"It's in solidarity with the Latino movement," Jacques said. "We are immigrants,
too. The legislature should be fair toward the immigrant."

Not all were supportive of the boycott. The Rev. Roland Desormeaux, leader of
Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Delray Beach, which has a large immigrant
contingent, discouraged members from staying home.

The Rev. Serge Jerome did not advise his congregation at Salem Community Church
in Lake Worth, saying it was a personal choice. But he said people who have
legal status here - of any race - have shown no compassion for the others.

"We work hard. We make America what it is," Jerome said. "We pray that God can
talk to the hearts of those who are making the laws."

Staff writers Lori Becker, Alexia Campbell, Thomas R. Collins, Daphne Duret,
Rani Gupta, Mirta Luaces, Dianna Smith and Yanuarys Lopez contributed to this
report.

ana_valdes@pbpost.com

pilar_ulibarri@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C & 2 B&W)
 1. (C) M. SPENCER GREEN The Associated Press CHICAGO: Demonstrators carry the
flag of Puerto Rico through downtown during a march to show support for
immigrant rights. 2. (C) SANG H. PARK The Associated Press SANTA ANA, Calif.:
The Fourth Street shopping area was nearly empty Monday as immigrants, mostly
Hispanic, skipped work and took to the streets. 3. (B&W) DAVID SPENCER/Staff
Photographer FORT PIERCE: Four-year-old Alicia Solis of West Palm Beach looks
toward speakers during a picnic and rally sponsored by the Latin American
Coalition at Rotary Park Monday. 4. (C) LIBBY VOLGYES/Staff Photographer WEST
PALM BEACH: As Mass was celebrated at St. Juliana Catholic Church, about 500
people, including Juan Baeza, 12, of Fort Lauderdale, had an impromptu rally
nearby. 5. (B&W) GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer BELLE GLADE: Romasa Omela,
originally from Haiti, watches from her store as Alexis Perez and his mother,
Blanca Garcia, join a crowd of about 1,000 marching through downtown in support
of immigration reform. Garcia and her son are natives of Mexico who now live in
West Palm Beach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              157 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AFTER BOYCOTT, REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 400 words


Millions of illegal immigrants didn't report to work on Monday and made a
convincing point: A "Day Without Immigrants" is a day with problems for
employers and the U.S. economy.

For decades, Americans have been willing to rely on an illegal workforce yet
ignore its contributions - and often even its existence. The boycott and mass
demonstrations across the country made that impossible Monday. In Florida, the
service and agriculture industries were hard-hit, as expected; without illegal
immigrants, crops don't get picked, hotel rooms don't get cleaned, and
restaurants can't put food on the table. It was surprising, however, to see the
depth of the impact on construction. More than half the workers at construction
sites in Miami-Dade County did not show up, according to the Associated General
Contractors of Greater Florida.

Critics of the boycott, among them President Bush and Gov. Bush, claimed it was
too extreme and would hurt efforts to make progress on immigration reform. But
the real extremists are Republicans in the U.S. House who last year passed a
bill that makes felons of illegal immigrants and threatens criminal charges
against people who help them. The extreme legislation has galvanized the
nation's 12 million illegal immigrants and their supporters as never before.
House Republicans were instrumental in creating everything they saw Monday.

The Senate still has a chance to pass reasonable reform that is based on
legislation proposed by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.
The nation needs a comprehensive fix to a complex problem. It's as essential to
tighten controls on the U.S.-Mexico border as it is to offer an incremental path
to legal status to the hardworking illegal immigrants already in the country.
President Bush supports a guest-worker program, and so does a majority in the
Senate. One of the many critical details necessary to make the program feasible
is stiff penalties for employers who break the rules. Beyond enforcement at the
borders, the government has to be willing to enforce reforms in the workplace.

Perhaps more influential than the boycott or marches are the political
demographics. The millions of illegal immigrants have millions of family
members, friends and supporters who can vote. Anti-immigrant extremists have
roused counter-revolutionaries on the other side. The reform the country needs
is somewhere in between.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              158 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 78 words


HIGHLAND BEACH - U.S. Border Patrol agents and sheriff's deputies scoured the
beach in vain for illegal immigrants Saturday morning after discovering an
abandoned boat on the sands on Highland Beach, a sheriff's spokesman said. The
boat, about 21 feet long, was empty when discovered near 4100 S. Ocean Blvd. An
article of clothing prompted investigators to believe immigrants may have been
smuggled onshore, said Paul Miller, Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              159 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAVE GALL PROTESTING IN AMERICA

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 187 words


In response to the numerous articles that have appeared in The Post addressing
immigration rights protests and demonstrations (most recently, "Immigration
sense and sandwiches," May 4 John Tierney column): First, illegal immigrants
have no rights in our country. Proponents of this movement argue that America
was founded by immigrants. While this is true, America's regard for immigration
in 2006 cannot be compared with social conditions in, say, 1910.

Immigrants want reform that would give them citizenship and access to Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid. These social programs already are being
strained to sustain Americans. Eleven million more immigrants probably would
collapse or seriously jeopardize the current system. The small amount of taxes
that they pay does not begin to cover the social services they already enjoy
that are financed by Americans.

Instead of protesting for rights they are not entitled to in this country, they
should return to their own countries and protest their governments' failures to
provide them with jobs and the social services they wrongly seek here.

ROBERT L. ADAMS

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              160 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LET IMMIGRANTS SEEK A LIVING IN THEIR OWN NATIONS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 191 words


I am appalled that the May 2 front-page headline, "On 'day without,' many speak
out, take to the street," failed to include an important word about the massed
demonstrators on May 1 - illegal. "Undocumented immigrants" is a euphemism.

An estimated 3 million of the "undocumented" enter the United States illegally
every year, so call it the way it is. There is a legal procedure for entering
this country; millions of immigrants have followed it for years. Those who don't
follow the law, according to CNN's Lou Dobbs, are costing taxpayers an estimated
$50 billion per year in health care, incarceration and education costs, not to
mention enabling corporations to continue to lower the wage base for America's
working-class citizens.

There are no "jobs Americans won't do." There are only jobs for which
corporations refuse to pay a living wage. If all the illegal immigrants
demanding rights in the U.S. would organize and demand a living wage in their
own countries, we all would be more prosperous. Corporations need to be held
accountable for hiring cheap foreign labor and expecting taxpayers to keep
footing the enormous bill.

MARY FOSS

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              161 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FLAP MOSTLY OVER DESIRE FOR PROFIT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 121 words


Are we to understand that Congress has ignored illegal immigration because we
are a nation of immigrants ("A third way," Opinion, Sunday)? What about the law
governing illegal entry? Now, we have millions of illegals changing our culture,
taking over the labor markets and burdening our social services. Congress has
ducked its responsibility.

We have a history of allowing people in for our profitability. Two hundred years
ago, we used cotton pickers; now, they pick fruit and vegetables.

Business must share blame in this situation with the U.S. Border Patrol, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and Congress. Don't hire illegals;
prevent entry; and legislate to protect our way of life.

WALLY CHRISTENSEN

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              162 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION-CONTROL LAW NEEDS TEETH - ID CARD

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 216 words


Employers risk little in hiring illegal labor. It's a topic often lost in the
heated battle over whether to add more border patrol agents, build a fence, or
deploy the U.S. military along the border with Mexico ("National Guard may man
border," Monday). But in the end, most analysts agree, the U.S. can't stem the
flow of illegal immigrants until it resolves to do one thing: Punish the
employers who hire them.

Federal enforcement has long been so weak, and employer fines so few and far
between, that many still laugh off the prospect of serious sanctions - though
the laughs are a little more nervous now.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act, enacted in 1986, requires employers to
verify that prospective employees are either U.S. citizens or authorized to work
here. But rather than mandate a national identity card - over privacy concerns-
the legislation gives employers wide latitude. Workers can offer at least 25
different documents to prove that they are authorized to work in the United
States.

"The law has been so difficult to enforce that the number of cases brought
against employers is about half what it was a decade ago, even though the number
of unauthorized workers has roughly doubled in that time," a Pew Research Center
report concluded last month.

MARILYN FISHMAN

Hobe Sound

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              163 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLITICIANS, LISTEN UP: IMMIGRANT PLAN TOO LEAKY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 119 words


I voted for Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and for President Bush. Can I rescind my
votes, please? These two politicians do not understand the importance of
stopping the flood of illegal immigrants and then addressing those already here
-- without amnesty ("Bush plan: Secure borders, allow guest workers," Tuesday).
This is Scotch tape, not a solution.

There are 9.3 million W-2 forms with Social Security numbers that don't match.
Go after them and the employers. Get with it in Washington -- start supporting
the legal immigrants and U.S. citizens.

If you didn't watch former Vice President Al Gore on Saturday Night Live last
weekend, do so. He may be a dunce, but he had some telling points.

SARA ROBERTSON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              164 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE IMMIGRATION BILL BORDERS ON THE REALISTIC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 487 words


President Bush has called out the National Guard to calm down the U.S. House of
Representatives.

No, he hasn't sent troops up Capitol Hill. But the White House did announce that
the first contingent of 6,000 National Guard troops will arrive at the Mexican
border within a week. The move coincides with Senate approval Thursday of an
immigration bill that Mr. Bush correctly favors but most of his party's House
members hate. The Senate bill, they say, offers amnesty to illegal immigrants
who don't deserve it.

Sending the National Guard to the border is part of the effort to counter the
soft-on-illegals accusations. So is the Senate's pandering amendment declaring
English to be America's official language. Such symbolic gestures, however, are
unlikely to sway Republican House members when something as basic as common
sense won't.

The Senate bill, sponsored by Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck Hagel, R-Neb.,
does not offer amnesty. It would give illegal immigrants who have been in this
country more than five years -- that number is estimated to be 7 million -- a
legal path to citizenship, if they stay employed, pay back taxes and learn
English. Those here two to five years, estimated at 3 million, could apply for
an expedited worker's visa but would have to leave the country to do so. The
estimated 2 million illegal immigrants here less than two years would be
deported. The Senate also includes a guest-worker provision with 200,000 slots,
cut down from 325,000, in another attempt to appease the House.

The Senate plan has practical problems. Trying to sort illegal immigrants by
length of stay might be impossible. What would the government seek as proof? It
would be hard to convince the middle group that they could get back in. How much
would the plan cost?

Still, the Senate plan is more workable than the House version, which simply
declares the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants felons and deports them.
Any American citizen who helps an illegal immigrant also would be a criminal.

The Senate's citizenship incentive isn't as generous or common-sensical as the
one in the McCain-Kennedy bill that died a few weeks ago. But it could bring
many of those 7 million into the light. The House plan, offering only
deportation, wold strand illegal immigrants in the security shadows and leave
them vulnerable to continued economic exploitation.

The Senate and House bills now go to conference. President Bush, who is worried
about driving Hispanic voters away from his party, has begun where he should, by
putting pressure on House Republicans to move toward the Senate version. The
reception, according to reports Thursday, has been cold.

The president's poll numbers don't help him. But compromise already has watered
down the Senate plan too much. If the president can't get the House to move,
Republican members of Congress should have to face voters in November and admit
that they failed on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              165 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 29, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS OF TODAY COME WITH NASTY ATTITUDES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 210 words


In reference to the May 21 letter "Take a closer look at immigrants; ease their
transition": This writer does not understand that her and my ancestors who
emigrated here years ago did not in any way possess the attitude of the illegal
aliens crossing the border into the United States today.

The immigrants who entered this country years ago faced difficult rules and a
harsh life. They realized that they had to learn English, and they learned it.
They stood in line to legally become U.S. citizens. They worked the hard jobs of
the poor, and eventually, they worked their way up the ladder of success.

The Spanish-speaking people illegally entering this country today expect U.S.
taxpayers to support them with health care, jobs and even, in some instances,
Social Security benefits, without any effort on their part to become American
citizens. They show no respect for this country when they participate in the
mass demonstrations recently held against the U.S. and its laws.

This is America. Learn to speak English; become an American citizen; abide by
the laws of this country. We are not going to change or bend the rules for
anyone illegally entering this country. If you refuse to cooperate, the American
people never will accept you.

JEAN MILLAR

Hobe Sound

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              166 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS WHO NEED TO GO

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 258 words


The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency has given Americans a look
at how the federal government should make its laws work and deal with immigrants
who have criminal records.

Hundreds of agents this month arrested about 2,100 illegal immigrants in sweeps
across the country that the government said targeted violent gang members, child
molesters and past deportees. Almost all immigration matters come with political
barnacles, and "Operation Return to Sender" is no different. President Bush
wants to convince Republican hard-liners that he is serious about enforcement
and win their support for his reform legislation that includes a guest-worker
program.

Putting illegal immigrants in handcuffs helps provide cover for a nervous
Congress. Especially, these illegal immigrants.

Unlike sweeps in April that targeted factory workers and dishwashers, the
government went after real criminals. Among them were 367 gang members,
including dozens from Mara Salvatrucha -- "street-tough Salvadorans," in Spanish
-- an extremely violent group that profits throughout the hemisphere from trade
in illegal drugs and prostitution. Agents also arrested more than 140 immigrants
who have been convicted of sex offenses against children.

More than 800 people with deportation orders were sent back to their countries
of origin within days of their arrest. With most of them, the government could
have done this months or years ago but only recently developed the political
will. This is enforcement that makes Americans safer, and it should be the
priority.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              167 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENDING BACK THE ILLEGALS WOULD LEAVE A SOUR TASTE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 439 words


Those who favor mass deportations of illegal immigrants should prepare
themselves for shortages in the supermarkets, delays at construction sites and
bad service in restaurants and hotels.

The labor of illegal immigrants is so essential to the economy that even modest
interruptions cause far-reaching consequences. Federal law-enforcement officials
have conducted several high-profile sweeps of job sites in Florida this year and
rounded up hundreds of illegal workers, most of whom were quickly deported. Now,
home builders say just the rumor of federal agents in the area is enough to shut
down construction projects.

The strongest anecdotal evidence comes from the state's agriculture industry.
Six million boxes of oranges may go unharvested because there aren't enough
fruit pickers. Many farmworkers left Florida in May as word spread of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids. Orange production could be the lowest
in 15 years. Already struggling because of canker and bad weather, the citrus
industry could take a $20 million hit because it can't get fruit off the trees.

In Avon Park, a town of 8,800 in citrus country about 80 miles south of Orlando,
Mayor Tony Macklin wants to deny business permits to companies that hire illegal
immigrants and fine landlords $1,000 for renting to them. The mayor also wants
to make English the town's official language and remove Spanish from public
documents.

More prominent mayors tend to be more rational. Michael Bloomberg of New York
City, which is 1,000 times larger than Avon Park, sounds like a citrus grower
when he worries about losing the foundation of his workforce. "Although they
broke the law by illegally crossing our borders," he told members of a Senate
committee last week, "our city's economy would be a shell of itself had they
not, and it would collapse if they were deported." In Jupiter, the same
reasoning led the town to create an immigrant job center, which opens this
month.

Avon Park would not have to get involved in foolish lawmaking if Congress came
up with a federal plan for dealing with the federal problem. House Majority
Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Republican hard-liners continue to push border
control and nothing else. Reform that ignores the 12 million illegal immigrants
already here is political cosmetology. Unfortunately, President Bush appears to
be backtracking on his call for a comprehensive solution.

Mayor Macklin should be worrying about potholes and garbage pickup, but House
Republicans are making draconian grandstanding fashionable. Oranges will rot on
the trees in Florida because reform is dying on the vine in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              168 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOLLOW AVON PARK'S LEAD ON ANTI-IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 139 words


Congratulations to Mayor Tom Macklin of Avon Park for proposing ordinances that
would punish landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business licenses
to those who hire them ("Fla. mayor pushes own immigration crackdown," July 10).

He also has proposed making English the official language of Avon Park, unlike
the state of Florida, which has an Official English Language law but never has
enforced it. Mayor Macklin would remove all Spanish from all city documents,
signs and automated phone messages.

Those mayors around the country who are taking these kinds of approaches realize
that most Americans are fed up with the illegal immigration problems and the
fast-growing intrusion of Spanish language into their public domains. It is time
for all citizens to demand similar legislation in their cities.

HELENE STARR

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              169 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EMPLOYERS ARE ROOT CAUSE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 119 words


What we really have is an illegal employer problem. Until President Reagan
called off enforcement of our labor laws, we didn't have an immigration problem.
The amnesty of 1986, combined with his attacks on the power of labor unions,
turned a migrant population into permanent residents, taking what used to be
good union jobs away from American citizens.

Under President Bush, the situation has grown dramatically worse as work-site
enforcement has dropped 95 percent, and the number of employers prosecuted and
fines against them have dropped to almost nothing. There is no fence that can
seal our borders as long as employers are scoffing at the law to hire people who
shouldn't be here.

BRUCE MAYERSON

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              170 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. ECONOMY CAN ADAPT TO LOSS OF IMMIGRANT LABOR

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 167 words


In seven years of reading about and talking with opponents of illegal
immigration, I never have heard anyone speak of "mass deportations" ("Sending
back the illegals would leave a sour taste," July 14 editorial).

I have heard this inflammatory term used only by the pro-amnesty crowd. The 12
million to 20 million illegal aliens did not arrive overnight, and they can
leave the way they came, over a number of years.

Another scare tactic is, "Illegal aliens are essential to the economy." What did
we do before they arrived? Did illegal aliens participate in the building boom
after World War II, or in the 1960s or 1980s? Economies are dynamic. They adjust
to changes according to supply and demand for labor.

Finally, Avon Park, a small town in Central Florida, takes action on a problem
that most Americans have wanted something done about for years "(Fla. mayor
pushes own immigration crackdown," July 10). It just proves that there are still
pockets of democracy in this country.

DAVID LANE

North Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              171 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A FENCE, BUT NO SOLUTION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 429 words


Congress has one week left before leaving Washington for election campaigning,
and that means one week to make the political case to voters that lawmakers are
serious about stopping illegal immigration along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Last week, the House authorized 700 miles of fences along the border, and the
Senate is expected to follow. House Republicans also have passed measures that
impose long prison terms for building tunnels under the border and expand the
government's power to arrest and hold illegal immigrants. House Majority Leader
John Boehner, R-Ohio, bowed for the voters. "The American people have called on
Congress to take immediate action," he said, "and we have."

This won't be the last distortion of reality about immigration before the
election, but it could stand as the most wrongly self-congratulatory. The
American people also have called on Congress to take immediate action and do
something about the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already here. The
House Republicans want no part of that politically charged problem and ignore
President Bush when he talks about creating a guest-worker program to solve it.

Reps. Clay Shaw Jr., R-Fort Lauderdale, and Mark Foley, R-Fort Pierce, who both
face spirited opposition for their seats, continue to play Boehner politics with
the same fences-only votes they cast last December. As for the 12 million, their
attitude is, What 12 million? House Republicans also have passed a bill calling
for voter ID cards to prevent immigrants from tunneling into the polls. The
crackdown in Congress already is creating labor shortages in fields, factories
and construction. Who will take a bow for that?

The approval of fencing is a partial fix in itself. How do you stretch 700 miles
of fence to cover a 2,000-mile border? Part of the debate in the Senate is over
who should decide where to put the fence -- Congress or the Department of
Homeland Security. Naturally, the states want a say, too.

Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano understands better than anyone in Washington the
limits of fences. "You show me a 50-foot wall," she says, "and I'll show you a
51-foot ladder at the border." Last week, Boeing won a $67 million government
contract to supplement the metal fence with a high-tech "virtual fence" using
cameras, sensors and unmanned planes. Eventually, someone is sure to invent the
51-foot virtual ladder.

Voters won't get anything resembling an honest debate on comprehensive
immigration reform until Congress reconvenes after the election, which is the
time line House Republicans want for themselves.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 10, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUST IN TIME TO DIE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 362 words


Haitian asylum seeker victim of U.S. policy. Haiti's interim government has been
struggling, with little American involvement since the February forced exile of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, to halt political and gang violence that has
claimed an estimated 173 lives in 2 1/2 months. Even as Secretary of State Colin
Powell visited the National Palace last week, a firefight left three Haitians
dead and nine injured.

Indifference is bad enough. But the bureaucratic murder of 81-year-old Joseph
Dantica, who died while handcuffed to a hospital bed, is inexcusable. If the
United States isn't going to deal with lawlessness in Haiti, we can treat fairly
those fleeing Haiti for their own safety.

As The Post reported Monday, Mr. Dantica, a highly regarded pastor, had traveled
to and from the U.S. dozens of times over several decades. He returned to Haiti
in August. Caught in the new crossfire from competing factions, he was forced to
hide for several days beneath a neighbor's bed and dress as a woman to escape
with his life.

At Miami International Airport, Mr. Dantica told immigration officials that this
time he might seek temporary asylum. With that, he was detained, then taken to
Krome Detention Center, rather than being released as he should have been, to
await a hearing days later. His blood pressure medication dismissed by Homeland
Security officials as a "voodoo medicine," his sickness evidenced by his
vomiting and passing out, his relatives denied requests to see him, Mr. Dantica
was taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami only in time to die.

Even though the U.S. has left security to the few Brazilian troops in Haiti, our
stated policy is to consider legitimate claims for political asylum. But last
month, Attorney General John Ashcroft deported 20-year-old David Joseph and more
than 200 other Haitians who had been at Krome since they were stopped off Key
Biscayne in October 2002. Since an immigration court had ruled that Mr. Joseph
posed no threat to the community and ordered his release pending his asylum
hearing, the action sounds like plain old racism. Mr. Dantica never should have
been in prison. His blood is on the nation's hands.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              173 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAST WEEK'S TOP STORIES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 478 words


TWO HURT WHILE BUILDING BOMB, POLICE REPORT

SUNDAY: Two South Fork seniors were hurt, one seriously, when a pipe bomb they
were assembling exploded in the garage of a home on Ranchito Street, according
to Martin County sheriff's reports. Curtis Chambers, 18, was hit in the face
with shrapnel, according to sheriff's reports, and was flown to an area
hospital. Classmate Christopher Senatore, 18, sustained minor injuries and was
treated and released from the hospital. Later in the week, the two were charged
with making a destructive device.

IMMIGRANT RIGHTS CRY RISES DURING FORT PIERCE PARADE

MONDAY: An estimated 2,000 people, most of them Hispanic, marched along Virginia
Avenue waving flags and carrying signs in support of immigrants. The two-hour
parade started near the St. Lucie County Administration Building. The protest
was one of dozens across the country intended to send a message to Congress,
which is overhauling the nation's immigration laws.

JURY URGES JUDGE TO GIVE KILLER LIFE SENTENCE WITHOUT PAROLE TUESDAY: Jurors in
St. Lucie County issued a recommendation to Circuit Judge Burton Conner that
Coleman "Fred" Sule be sentenced to life in prison without possibility of
parole. Sule was found guilty of first-degree murder, arson and burglary in the
August 2003 death of Dorene Domato, who had dated Sule for about two years
before breaking off the relationship shortly before her death. Conner will make
the ultimate decision on Sule's punishment during a sentencing hearing May 12.

JUPITER ISLAND MAY TOUGHEN RESTRICTIONS ON GOLF CARTS

WEDNESDAY: Bristled by an outbreak of disobedient youngsters on the roadway, the
Jupiter Island Town Commission might require a driver license to operate a golf
cart along the town's ficus-lined streets. Commissioners debated tougher golf
cart rules, including capping the number of riders at two in front and two in
the back and barring passengers from standing on the back of a cart. The
commission will consider potential rules at its May meeting.

ST. LUCIE CEASES REPAIRS STATE ORDERED FOR DUNES

WEDNESDAY: St. Lucie County officials announced the end to their state-ordered
dune remediation, despite a thin layer of crumbly, mined sand that remains along
beaches near the Martin County line. The county has run out of replacement sand.
The state Department of Environmental Protection won't allow work to continue
unless the county finds another sand source, but the county doesn't have one, a
spokeswoman said.

MARTIN DEVELOPMENT ANALYSIS EXAMINES COUNTY'S OPTIONS

THURSDAY: Orlando-based Glatting Jackson, a consulting firm Martin County hired
to study county development rules, gave the first of a series of presentations
to community groups. The study will propose changes, such as allowing
clustering, in which developers can build a dense pocket of homes in a rural
area and conserve the surrounding land.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Members of the Perez family of Port St.
Lucie participate in an immigration march Monday on Virginia Avenue in Fort
Pierce. 2. Coleman "Fred" Sule (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              174 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PUT KIDS BACK IN KIDCARE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 208 words


What makes state lawmakers think it's remotely acceptable for children in
Florida to go without medical care?

No elected official would dare claim that philosophy, but it's apparent in the
Legislature's repeated efforts to prevent needy children from enrolling in the
state-subsidized KidCare health insurance program.

Two years ago, Florida cut children of legal immigrants out of KidCare. As a
result, about 14,000 children of working-but-poor legal immigrants are
uninsured. This year, with record-high sales tax revenues, the state cannot
claim - truthfully, anyway - that there's not enough money to enroll those
children. As youth advocate Karen Woodall said: "These are legal immigrant
children whose parents are following the rules ...That's a no-brainer."

The cost would be about $18 million, but anti-immigrant politics have kept the
money out of the state's $70 billion budget.

House Speaker Allan Bense said last week that the allotment was "still in play."
Senate President Tom Lee, R-Brandon, dismissed the fact that the program would
not get federal aid: "I don't think that should matter."

No, it shouldn't. The children never should have been dropped from KidCare
eligibility. The legislative session should not end with them still excluded.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              175 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS ALLOWS MORE SKILLED FOREIGNERS TO WORK IN U.S.

BYLINE: By APRIL BETHEA Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More foreign workers could soon enter the United States with temporary visas
under a plan approved by Congress.

The measure allows up to 20,000 foreign workers who obtain a master's or
doctorate degree from an American college or university to work in the country
for up to six years with an H-1B visa without being counted in the federal cap
on such workers.

The H-1B measure, proposed this year by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, was tucked
into an omnibus spending bill Congress approved late Saturday. The bill now
moves to President Bush for his signature.

"This bill ensures we build our competitive strength and keep jobs here in the
U.S.," said Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga.,who had worked to get a vote on the
measure.

The law now allows 65,000 skilled foreign workers to enter the country each year
with an H-1B visa to work in a "specialty occupation." Federal officials
announced on the first day of fiscal year 2005 that the year's limit had already
been reached.

Businesses had lobbied for exempting from the cap foreign workers educated at
U.S. institutions, saying U.S. companies need to be able to better compete with
other nations.

But the proposal drew fire from many American-born workers, who feared their
jobs would be at risk.

Once the omnibus bill is signed into law, more foreign workers could be hired as
soon as late winter or early spring, said Sandy Boyd, a vice president with the
National Association of Manufacturers and chair of the coalition Compete
America.

The H-1B measure also calls for more money for training for U.S. workers.

abethea@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              176 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FUND SET UP FOR BIRTH DEFECT-HIT FAMILIES

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 281 words


A Catholic social service organization has opened a fund that will accept
donations for three Mexican farmworker families that recently had children with
birth defects born into them.

Catholic Rural Services has started the "Three Kids Fund," known in Spanish as
the Tres Ninos Fund.

A check can be written to either one.

The address for the fund is Guadalupe Service Center, P.O. Box 5034, Immokalee,
FL 34143.

Brian Bennett, director of the organization in Immokalee, said all monies
received will be given to those families. Any potential donor who wants the
money to go to a particular family should make that desire known with his or her
donation.

Carlos Candelario was born Dec. 17 without arms or legs. Jesus Navarrete was
born Feb. 4 with a deformed lower jaw and swallowing problems. Violeta Rueda was
born Feb. 6 with massive birth defects and died three days later.

All six parents lived in the same small migrant labor camp and worked in the
same local tomato field at the time that the three mothers became pregnant. The
Florida Health Department is investigating the cause of the birth defects.
Possible causes are genetic, nutritional or agricultural pesticides.

Bennett said in the case of Carlos Candelario, in particular, the family will
need help with better housing, local employment and legalizing their immigration
status. He said the boy will need extensive medical assistance, which he will
not get if his parents are forced to work as migrant laborers.

"We also need to find out the cause of these birth defects, and if they might
have been caused by pesticides, we need to study just how these pesticides are
used and monitored," Bennett said.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              177 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PRO-FARMWORKER MEASURES STALLED

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


To farmworker advocates, the idea behind the bill seems simple: Require vans
that transport migrant workers to have seat belts.

But in Tallahassee, things are rarely that simple.

That bill and another that would make it easier for children of undocumented
immigrants to attend Florida colleges and universities are struggling, while a
bill that would prohibit state financial aid for foreign students is moving
along.

After last year's crash near Fort Pierce that killed nine migrant workers and
seriously injured 10 others, social services advocates thought measures to help
migrant workers and their families would coast through the legislature this
year.

But the only farmworker issue that has rolled through this year was the
appointment of George Pantuso to the Florida Citrus Commission.

Pantuso is the owner of Circle H Citrus - the grove where the Fort Pierce
migrants were working - and the van they were traveling home in that day. The
U.S. Department of Labor wants to fine Pantuso for twice failing to provide
"safe transport vehicles," but he is appealing. The first fine was for the fatal
April 1, 2004, crash, and the second was for another case two weeks later.

Pantuso, nominated by Gov. Jeb Bush to the Florida Citrus Commission, did not
disclose that information during his appointment process, according to a Senate
summary of nominees. Yet Pantuso, who could not be reached for comment late
Wednesday, cleared the Ethics and Elections Committee, and the Senate approved
him without debate this week.

Farmworker advocates are finding that passing farmworker protection bills is
much harder.

"Farmworkers shouldn't be different than anybody else," said Margarita Romo, a
Dade City woman who has helped migrants there for more than three decades. "Why
is everything so hard for us?" The bill that has them most upset is HB 1059,
which would require seat belts in farm labor vans and call for state inspections
to keep them up to date.

The bill cleared the Agriculture Committee, but not before Rep. Ralph Poppell,
R-Vero Beach, who has worked in the farming industry for decades and still owns
groves in Indian River and St. Lucie counties, added an amendment that would
require those seat belts to be used. The amendment would limit the ability of
farmworkers to sue if they are injured in a crash.

"If people don't use the seat belts, why go through the trouble of putting them
in there?" Poppel said. "This is about personal responsibility."

Bill sponsor Rep. Anne Gannon, D-Delray Beach, said the amendment did much more
than that, inadvertently shielding manufacturers of vehicles from lawsuits if
their vehicles prove faulty.

Meanwhile, a bill that would allow undocumented immigrants to pay in-state
tuition at Florida colleges and universities seems stalled in the Senate.

The bill (HB 119) would allow Florida high school graduates who don't have legal
residency but who have been in the country for at least three years and who
guarantee that they will become U.S. citizens to attend state colleges and
universities at the in-state tuition rate. Only the top 2,000 students in the
state who fall under its requirements would qualify for in-state tuition.

The Senate version of the bill is stalled before a committee, and House sponsor
Juan Zapata, R-Miami, worries that the "anti-immigrant hysteria" that is
sweeping the state and country will help kill the bill.

Yet a bill that would prohibit any state money from going to foreign students at
Florida colleges and universities stands a good chance of passing.

The bill would divert nearly $8 million from students studying at Florida
colleges and universities under student visas to in-state residents.

Farmworker advocates view the bill as yet another affront to their rights in
Florida, a state that depends so heavily on migrant labor to fuel the
agriculture business.

The bill was passed the House 98-13 Monday and is awaiting a hearing on the
Senate floor.

That despite a Senate staff analysis that found the bill may not even stand up
in court.

According to the analysis, foreign students may be protected under the 14th
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which grants equal protection under the law.
The state may not be able to restrict citizens of other countries from receiving
state assistance when residents of other U.S. states remain eligible.

"This bill may be constitutionally suspect under the equal protection clause of
the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution," the analysis reads.

- alan_gomez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              178 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 11, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW TRAP IN THE FIELDS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 396 words


Other than pangs of conscience, Florida farmers have little reason to care about
how they use pesticides.

The state's regulation is at best halfhearted and at worst nonexistent; reports
of misuse seldom surface; and workers who complain of poisoning are largely
powerless to seek lost wages or compensation for medical bills. The Legislature
in recent years has made it much harder for field laborers - the overwhelming
majority of whom are undocumented migrants - to make workers compensation
claims. The changes have made an already complicated bureaucracy virtually
impossible to navigate.

As The Post reported on May 29, one of the worst revisions forces victims to
name specific chemicals and amounts used when claiming pesticide injury. Because
Florida farmers use many chemicals at once, the requirement is unrealistic,
perhaps intentionally so. Workers can't say for sure which pesticides and
herbicides caused the poisoning, and there is no incentive for employers to help
substantiate a claim by providing the information.

Another change requires workers to have valid Social Security numbers to be
eligible for benefits - which is another example of the nation's contradictory
and unfair approach to immigration. The agriculture industry could not operate
without foreign labor, yet there is no mechanism to supply it legally. Growers
rely on illegal workers, who toil at their peril in Florida, which leads the
country in per-acre use of chemicals.

As long as workers are on the job, employers don't have to care about their
employees' Social Security number until they get sick. Congress is considering a
guest worker bill that would put these undocumented immigrants into a legal
system, establish ground rules for residency and end the nation's hypocritical
policy. Help from Washington would reduce the exploitation in Florida's fields.

Farmworkers certainly will get no help from Tallahassee, where agriculture
lobbyists continue to dictate self-serving policy and stifle reform.
Undocumented workers have no chance against trade groups and their influence
over key legislators. Since compensation judges started applying the
Legislature's new standards, hundreds of workers' claims have been dismissed.
What medical treatment poisoning victims do receive often comes at public
expense, not the employers'. Floridians should want no part of a system that's
this unfair.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              179 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 17, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOR SEASONAL WORK THIS YEAR, DON'T LOOK TO HIRE FOREIGNERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 406 words


After watching coverage of Hurricane Katrina and the lives of people changing
forever through no fault of their own, along with complete understanding of what
they are going through, I thought that we as a nation must help. As a new
small-business owner in South Florida, in the staffing industry, I understand
both sides of employment issues. I cannot, however, sit quietly while hundreds
of thousands of people's lives and livelihoods are destroyed. This natural
disaster selected no one race, no one income level; it hit all.

Florida's economy is hospitality-driven, similar to those of New Orleans and
Biloxi, Miss. Florida has a large, year-round destination area in Central
Florida, whereas other areas are very season-driven. As the season is getting
ready to start here, hundreds of country clubs, hotels, resorts and restaurants
throughout the state and elsewhere in the country bring in thousands of workers
from other countries, with the help of United States-based corporations. These
U.S. companies take jobs away from Americans, pay to fly these workers to the
U.S., arrange for their work visas, coordinate their lodging, supply their
uniforms and, in most cases, supply transportation to and from the workplace on
an hourly basis, all while paying these foreign workers a generous wage. They
work at least 40 hours a week, and in many cases during season, more like 60 or
70 hours per week.

The South Florida season runs from October through Mother's Day. If the governor
would offer tax incentives to companies assisting (in employment or housing)
these hurricane victims, the economic devastation would be less for these people
and for all citizens of the United States. I am ashamed of these companies if
they continue this business practice this year by importing workers, when our
own people are in dire straits and have the same set of skills to fill thousands
of jobs here. These positions are typically chefs, prep cooks, servers, wait
staff, dishwashers, bussers, housekeepers and groundskeepers.

First, businesses nationwide started outsourcing to save money; now, we are
insourcing, or importing foreign workers, to save money. Let's rise to the
occasion and save many lives and millions of dollars and put American workers to
work. I would be more than willing to offer my time to put together a coalition
of staffing companies and other companies to get this to happen.

DONNA DYSON

Dyson Staffing Group

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              180 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

JUPITER OKS LEASE FOR DAY-LABOR HIRING CENTER

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Facing a burgeoning population of immigrant workers, town officials have voted
to lease a new government building to help establish the first day-labor hiring
center in Palm Beach County.

Despite protests this year, the town council voted 4-1 this week to lease a
former church building to Catholic Charities as a hiring center. The nonprofit
organization will lease the building until the end of 2007 for a yearly fee of
one dollar.

The approval followed objections from one councilman stating the facility would
abet the practice of illegal immigration.

"This is an illegal activity we're spending taxpayer dollars on," said
Councilman Don Daniels. "I'm not in favor of spending taxpayer dollars or
exposing the town to support an illegal activity."

However, town officials deny the allegation, citing numerous day-labor centers
that have been uncontested throughout the country in places such as California,
Georgia and Maryland.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2005



CORRECTION: Because of a reporting error, The Post Thursday incorrectly reported
that the Jupiter Town Council granted Catholic Charities a two-year lease to
operate the Jupiter Neighborhood Resource Center by a 4-1 vote. The Town of
Jupiter approved only the site plan amendment and is expected to vote on the
lease in January. The error appeared on Page 3D in the Local section.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              181 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'WE CAME HERE TO WORK AND THAT'S WHAT WE DO'

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 68 words


In Florida, anywhere from 500,000 to 1 million undocumented workers operate in
the shadows - the bus boy, the floral shop worker, the single mother at the
park.

They build our houses, pick our food, clean our offices and, in a million little
ways, drive a quiet and steady economy.

Most have one thing in common: They say they want legal status, and they want to
work hard and build a future. Here. In America.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4 C)
 RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer 1. 'Our daughter has become an
Americanita.' Alvaro Ceballos, 37, a house painter; Juliana Rangel, 27, a dog
walker; and daughter Manuela Ceballos, 10, from Colombia 2. 'Sometimes I regret
living here. I didn't ask to come. Here I'm a nobody. But if I go back, I'll
have to start all over again. I don't know anyone there anymore.' Lider, 20;
college student and marble installer from Peru 3. BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer
'I have to think about a future for my child.' Christina, 46, a housecleaner
from Brazil, with her 8-year-old son 4. RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer 'We
are not criminals. We didn't come here to commit crimes.' Vicente Torres, 27;
used-car salesman from Mexico

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              182 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHY NOT JUST ASK MEXICO TO BECOME A U.S. STATE?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 132 words


In reference to the president's speech on Monday ("Bush plan: Secure borders,
allow guest workers," Tuesday): What if we asked the president of Mexico if he
would have his people vote on becoming a state of the United States?

That would eliminate the need for border guards, and we still could require that
new citizens learn English. We could build factories there and teach the people
how to run them and produce needed goods. We know that Mexico's people are hard
workers, willing to learn and anxious to make a living. Mexico has not provided
that for them, but it is a good land with people eager to work. Instead of
having a perceived enemy at our back door, we would have people who desire to
share our way of life and are thankful for the opportunity we provided.

RUTH C. KLEBINS

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              183 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 10, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOREIGNERS INCREASINGLY FILL AREA'S SEASONAL JOBS

BYLINE: By CATRIONA STUART Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1193 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Beginning around Labor Day each year, the snowbirds begin their migration.

Thousands descend upon Florida from their northern hideaways, bringing with them
the cooler air and the seasonal jobs that follow them down the coast.

But these days, the workers who fill those jobs are more likely to come from the
Philippines or Romania than Palm Beach County.

While Washington postures and politicks over the future of immigration reform,
the county's resorts, country clubs and hotels have already become a proving
ground for one of the most controversial proposals - the use of temporary guest
workers.

Local businesses whose trade fluctuates with the snowbirds say they can't find
enough qualified workers from the area to fill their seasonal needs. Job-seekers
place the blame for the problem squarely with employers, who, they say, are
unwilling to pay wages that are in pace with the area's high cost of living.

Combine those arguments with the county's already low 3 percent unemployment
rate, and the issue has become as divisive locally as it is nationally.

"We hear things from local employers especially that a seasonal workforce is
hard to find. There doesn't seem to be enough qualified people to fill those
jobs," said Steve Craig, vice president for business and economic development at
the Workforce Alliance, a county-wide job job-placement and training agency.
When President Bush first mentioned creating a new federal guest worker program
in a January 2004 speech, there were already 2,325 foreign workers in Palm Beach
County, according to U.S. Department of Labor data.

An existing government program grants 66,000 visas annually for workers to fill
a variety of nonagricultural temporary or seasonal jobs that last less than one
year.

But a new program - part of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act, which the
Senate has passed - would grant visas that would allow guest workers to remain
in the United States for six years with the option to petition for legal
permanent- resident status. If the legislation is enacted, 200,000 visas would
be given each year until a maximum of 650,000 visas have been issued to foreign
workers and their families.

Entrepreneur filled need

Bill Mayville is a Miami entrepreneur who once owned an employee leasing
company. He's the man many credit for helping the temporary foreign workforce
take off here in 2000. That's when a Boca Raton country club frustrated with its
inability to fill 400 seasonal jobs approached him.

The club asked Mayville to help it find a reliable pool of foreign workers.

That year he created a pilot program with 100 workers. The following year, he
commissioned several hundred more to work in South Florida.

Mayville said he is now as many as 35 clients and brings in about 1,300 workers
annually - roughly 20 percent of the annual temporary foreign workers in the
state.

According to the Department of Labor, there were 1,843 temporary foreign workers
in the county in fiscal year 2005.

"These are not jobs that are being sent overseas," Mayville said. "These dollars
are staying in the community. (Foreign workers) pay for their housing, they have
disposable income that buys groceries and goes to the movies and everything
else."

Besides, he said, at the moment, these are not jobs that Americans want.

Out of 1,000 seasonal jobs he listed in local newspapers and employment services
last year, Mayville said he received only 25 responses.

By law, before being granted a visa from the temporary worker program, employers
must prove they could not find an American to take the job.

In the 1980s, it was relatively easy to find workers to fill seasonal jobs, said
Stuart Tyrell, president of the Ibis Golf & Country Club in West Palm Beach. But
now the pool of available labor has dwindled to almost nothing.

"We were just hiring bodies because we needed 10 servers to serve a banquet or a
wedding," Tyrell said. "We were using temporary laborers or asking other clubs
if we could borrow their employees on slow nights."

Despite the meager turnout for available jobs, however, many county residents
still remain on the unemployment rolls.

Low wages a barrier

The Workforce Alliance currently has about 35,500 job-seekers registered in its
database, Craig said, though about half of them are people who have jobs but are
in the market for something better.

That's exactly what brought Gera Gardiner and Nikita Oliver to the alliance's
West Palm Beach office on a blistering June afternoon.

"We get paid $8.50 an hour and we do work that we need to get paid a little more
than that," said Gardiner, 20, who has been working as a security guard at the
Century Village retirement community in suburban Boca Raton for nearly a year.

For Gardiner, one paycheck barely covers her share of the $1,000-a-month rent on
her apartment. The rest goes toward utilities and food. After that, there's not
much left, Gardiner said. She also hasn't signed up for her employer's health
plan because it would take another significant chunk out of her paycheck, and
wouldn't cover basic services without costly co-payments.

Oliver looked at her friend and shrugged. "It was more money than I was making
at Arby's," she said.

Money is the big barrier between people who want to work and the available jobs,
said Wanda Aikens, founder of Teen Temps, a Riviera Beach-based nonprofit that
tries to pair teenagers with jobs that will help them get into a professional
field.

"A lot of the jobs they are talking about are the minimum wage-type jobs,"
Aikens said. "When you start thinking, those jobs just won't sustain their
families."

Labor market statistics for the region show that although the availability of
higher-wage jobs is growing, the jobs with the most openings are still low-wage,
low-skill positions.

Federal statistics reflect a similar trend. Overall, said one Department of
Labor official, the job most frequently requested to be filled by a temporary
foreign worker is horse stable hand. The second most-requested job - waiter.

Skyrocketing real estate prices, climbing gasoline costs and the furious pace of
condominium conversions also have played no small part in driving the service
and temporary workforce out of the county.

Without the help of temporary workers, clubs such as Ibis would be faced with a
tough decision, Tyrell said. Fight it out amongst themselves for the remaining
portion of the workforce that doesn't have a job, or make the significant
financial commitment to hiring more full-time staff with full-time benefits.

No one knows what the next step should be, but as more businesses enter the
market for temporary worker visas, everyone seems to agree that something will
have to change.

"Somebody's going to have to start making concessions to the workforce," Aikens
said, "or there's not going to be a workforce to service this county."

Temporary workers

Temporary workers hired during fiscal year 2005

Polo Club, Boca Raton

144 waiters/waitresses

Pay: $8/hour

Boca West Country Club, Boca Raton

34 cooks

Pay: $10.75/hour

The Breakers, Palm Beach

21 bellhops

Pay: $10/hour

Boca Raton Resort & Club, Boca Raton

52 parking lot attendants

Pay: $8.17/hour

Source: Department of Labor

catriona_stuart@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              184 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 23, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER CENTER FOR DAY LABORERS TOOK NERVE

BYLINE: Emily J. Minor

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 561 words


When you're a newspaper columnist in a crazy place like South Florida, you're
not supposed to gush about government.

There's plenty to kvetch about: public education, thieving politicians, unsolved
crime.

Political backslapping?

It's just not done.

But I am obsessed with what's happening up in Jupiter at an old church at the
corner of Military Trail and Indiantown Road, where they've created a place for
immigrants to come look for work.

And here's what keeps me coming back.

The nerve it took to do this.

Jupiter, Fla., home to nice parks, family living and beautiful stretches of
ocean, had a problem for years. A dirty problem. There was an underbelly to the
town, a growing number of immigrant workers who would gather along Center Street
and wait for someone to come along and hire them for a day. Or maybe two or
three.

Everybody's got to eat and pay the rent and clothe the kids.

For a long time, it was easy to ignore the people and their problems, so that's
what the town did.

But then, things started to happen, things that made the residents and its staff
sit up and take notice. The numbers were growing, and at a somewhat alarming
rate. It was intimidating just to drive down Center Street because, on any given
day, there'd be hundreds of people standing out there waiting for a contractor
to drive by and hire five of the 500.

There were no restrooms, no trash cans, little shade, and that translated into
public urination, piles of litter, dehydration.

"I didn't know what day laborers were," says Town Manager Andy Lukasik, who was
assistant town manager back then. "I didn't know what they were talking about."

Now he knows so much he could be on 60 Minutes.

The town has spent about $100,000 on the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center.
It's in an old church that sits on property the town bought a while ago and
eventually will use to expand town offices. Catholic Charities runs the place.
(Actually, Sister Marta's name keeps coming up.)

And Florida Atlantic University political science professor Tim Steigenga was
the guy who got the grass-roots guilt going. Hundreds of others, including the
immigrants themselves, greased the wheels.

It. Was. Not. Easy.

Illegal immigration is one of the most emotional and divisive social problems in
our country - every bit the hot button of abortion, gay marriage and fake war
heroes.

"Every single negative I heard translated into some sort of a solution," says
Councilman Jim Kuretski, the first elected official to embrace the idea in 2004.

Opponents' worries?

Workers will come from hundreds of miles. (El Sol gives ID cards, i.e., job
opportunities, only to town residents.) These men could be terrorists. You have
no way of protecting people against unscrupulous employers.

They heard it all, eventually going to various spots across the country to
research existing centers and see how they did it.

"What other option did we have?" Lukasik says this week. "We could ignore,
enforce - which doesn't work - or do this."

The center's about two weeks old, and it's not perfect. The biggest problem is
too many workers, not enough employers. But it's getting better. One recent day
they matched 48 workers with jobs, the highest number so far.

"If I get run out of office, so be it," Kuretski says. "But at least I didn't
sit around and do nothing."

You know what they say.

No guts, no glory.

And no gushing.

emily_minor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 Staff photos by ERIK M. LUNSFORD 1. A day laborer, who wants to remain
unidentified, wipes tears as he waits for work with about 500 others early
Friday at the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center in Jupiter. 2. Edwin W.
Raymundo-Pablo (front) waits at the 2-week-old center, where the biggest problem
is too many workers and not enough employers.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 12, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILL MAY HELP KIDS OF MIGRANTS PAY FOR COLLEGE

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY MILLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The best students among the children of illegal migrant farmworkers could
qualify for in-state tuition rates under a bill passed unanimously Monday by the
House Education Appropriations Committee.

Now, migrant students whose parents are not legal residents of the United States
are considered out-of-state when it comes to paying tuition.

Farmworker advocates says this designation bars many students from going to
college because of the high costs of out-of-state credits compared to in-state
tuition.

Under the proposal (HB 119), the children of illegal migrants could gain
in-state status if they have resided in Florida for at least three consecutive
years immediately preceding college entrance, if they have been accepted at a
community college or university and if they file an affidavit to become a
permanent resident.

The bill also would limit the number of students who could benefit from the
legislation to the top 2,000 high school graduates ranked by academic
performance.

Two similar bills (SB 226, SB 2264) are making their way through the Senate.

Karen Woodall, a representative of the Farmworker Association of Florida, said
although the number of students affected is limited, it will help those good
students who otherwise couldn't afford college.

"This has a significant impact on the farmworker community and for those
students in the top 2,000 it goes a long way to get them into higher education,"
Woodall said.

kimberly_miller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2005 Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              186 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IF WE'RE BARRING DRUGS, CLOSE BORDER TO ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A HOW TO WRITE THE POST

LENGTH: 72 words


I read the article about U.S. Customs and the Border Patrol seizing medications
from Americans who buy their drugs from Canada ("Canada drugs tougher to buy,"
Feb. 11).

I wish that the Bush administration would have the same policy as to enforcing
our borders with Mexico and Canada the same way. The president cares more about
the estimated 11 million illegal aliens in this country than his own people.

RICHARD KOWALSKI

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              187 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHY A NEW LEGAL PATH TO IMMIGRATION WON'T STOP ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 380 words


The House, Senate and White House have begun addressing the issue of
undocumented (formerly known as illegal) workers. Some senators proposed to give
them an opportunity to become legal workers, and even citizens. They would have
to learn English, learn civics, pay back taxes and a fine, and abide by our
laws. Once they did so, they would be entitled to become U.S. citizens. This
approach is both compassionate and humane.

Workers flock to America for three major reasons: There are many more
opportunities to work here; there are too few opportunities in their countries;
and no matter what the wage, it is significantly more than they could earn back
home. These workers try legal avenues; failing that, they risk their lives
getting across the border to America illegally. They don't speak English and are
unfamiliar with our laws and their rights as individuals, and, consequently,
they put up with many indignities en route and later on working in America.

American businesses hire these workers for three major reasons: They will accept
virtually any job they can get; they will work for lower wages, off the books,
saving the employer his share of employee taxes; and they don't speak English,
don't know our laws and, being illegal, have no way to escalate grievances
should they arise.

But once they completed the prescribed steps to become legal, they no longer
would be as attractive to employers. They might command higher wages, pay Social
Security and Medicare taxes and not tolerate as much abuse. Employers, in turn,
would have to pay the higher wages and the necessary taxes, and would have to
treat them more carefully.

Therefore, I predict that the demand for undocumented workers will continue
unabated, because the new, legal-citizen workers would not meet the major
criteria enumerated above that make illegal workers so attractive to employers.

As long as there is a demand, new sources will spring up to satisfy the demand.
The only way to break this cycle is to solve this problem: Choke off demand.
There must be significant disincentive for employers to hire illegal workers,
and good incentive to hire legal workers. That would solve the problem. But I
doubt that there is a politician who will trouble business with severe
disincentives.

ALEX ZAKSON

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              188 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' NONCHALANCE IS AMAZING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 228 words


After reading the article, " 'We came here to work, and that's what we do' "
(April 5), I came away with a sense that these illegal immigrants have no idea
that they've broken the laws of this country, and yet they expect us to open our
arms to them and supply them with medical care, education for their children and
even citizenship. It is difficult at best even to find one of these people to
converse with in English, yet after they finish their day's work, they drive off
in their uninsured trucks without a driver license, no ability to read English
signs and, therefore, cause many accidents that could be avoided.

One needs only to go to an emergency room on a Saturday night and you would
believe that you were in a Third World country; yet American doctors are
expected to care for these immigrants without cost, as are hospitals. Our
schools are overspending because they have to offer dual-language classes and,
of course, teachers who can teach them.

I have tried to be more open-minded, but I do not think that if we went to
Mexico or Guatemala, we would be able to get medical treatment without paying or
free education in English. I have lived long enough to know that all of these
jobs that are being filled by illegal workers once were filled by Americans.
There are no jobs that Americans don't want. That is strictly a Bushism.

ANN PROBST

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              189 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 9, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IT'S HARD TO RESPECT ANYONE BREAKING THE LAW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 172 words


Gee, a day without illegal aliens ("We say we don't want illegals here," April
30 Dan Moffett column). What a novel idea. Or is it really, considering that the
United States survived almost 200 years without illegal immigrant labor?

The irony here is that they want "respect," yet the illegal aliens do not
respect this nation's borders or its laws. When I think of "a day without
illegal aliens," I think of the usually overcrowded hospital emergency rooms,
with doctors running around looking for interpreters for people trying to get
free medical care at taxpayers' expense. Or, how about a food stamp office
mostly empty? Or any of the county or state social services not being swamped
with illegal aliens.

If illegal aliens are gone long enough, long-suffering Americans earning low
wages finally will see their incomes rise and eventually become enough to make a
decent living.

Would somebody please tell Dan Moffett that it is a felony for a person to
re-enter this country illegally after being deported?

DAVID LANE

North Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              190 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 14, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER LAPSES SHOW NEED FOR A NATIONAL ID CARD

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 462 words


The Bush administration says that the declining number of arrests along the
U.S.-Mexico border is evidence that the deployment of National Guard troops is
deterring illegal crossings. But illegals might have discovered that it's much
easier and much safer to walk past border agents than to run from them.

According to the Government Accountability Office, illegal immigrants would be
virtually unstoppable if they tried entering through checkpoints with fake IDs.
Between February and June, the GAO gave 18 investigators counterfeit documents
and sent them to checkpoints in seven border states, including California, Texas
and Arizona. Agents repeatedly failed to detect the fake cards and papers.
Border Patrol agents failed to recognize that the documents were counterfeit,
though their quality was relatively poor.

Most of the time, the IDs drew nothing more than a quick glance. At some
checkpoints, border agents allowed GAO investigators to enter the country
without any documents; they just had to say that they were U.S. citizens.
Investigators gave some of the agents second chances to catch the frauds, but
they did no better or even worse. The GAO had a 100 percent success rate in
crossing; it had only a 40 percent rate in a similar study two years ago.

Anyone with a home computer and a printer can generate a fake but
credible-for-entry driver license. Still, the Border Patrol doesn't deserve all
the blame. Agents did intercept about 75,000 people with fake IDs last year. And
the number of different IDs the government accepts is ridiculous: about 8,000.
What agent could possibly recognize all of them?

Congress passed a "Real ID" bill last year that attempts to standardize driver
licenses by requiring states to include more information. It is the first step
toward a national ID card that would use identifying biometrics such as
fingerprints. Opposition to the national ID is based on privacy concerns, but
the country may be at a point where border security trumps worries about
potential problems with ID security.

The government also is planning implementation by 2008 of the Western Hemisphere
Travel Initiative which will require travelers going to or from Mexico, Canada,
Central and South America, the Bahamas and the Caribbean to have a passport or
document approved by Homeland Security. The Senate, however, has voted to delay
implementation, and the House may follow because of fears that neither the
system nor the public is ready.

For migrants without fake IDs, illegal entry is more perilous since 6,000
National Guardsmen arrived. Nine illegals died an Arizona van rollover last
week. At least 291 have died during U.S.-Mexico crossing attempts since Oct. 1.
The border is tighter for impoverished migrants but not sophisticated
terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFFER ILLEGALS AMNESTYFOR JOINING ARMED FORCES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 93 words


Regarding the backdoor draft ("Marine Corps starts involuntary call-up,"
Wednesday): Wouldn't a proposal to illegal immigrants for complete amnesty and
eventual American citizenship be an incentive to join our armed forces?
Qualifications could demand completion of honorable service and demonstration of
an ability to speak and read English at the end of their tours.

A win-win aspect would be that taxes and Social Security would be paid and
entered into the system. This seems to be another job that Americans don't want
to do.

RICHARD "DICK" HOWARD

Palm Springs

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 MEN PLEAD GUILTY IN HUMAN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By LARRY KELLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 537 words


Two men have pleaded guilty in federal court on human smuggling charges in
connection with the botched delivery of a Guatemalan woman to her parents
outside a Lantana Kmart in March.

Rogino Sanchez, 24, and Ricardo Jose Contreras, 34, each pleaded guilty in Miami
on Wednesday to transporting an illegal immigrant within the United States for
profit and conspiring to transport others for the same purpose. They face a
maximum of 10 years in prison on each count at sentencing scheduled for Aug. 17.

The two men became the first in Florida to be charged with the state's new law
against trafficking in human beings when they were arrested by Lantana police on
Interstate 95 near Northlake Boulevard. The case was transferred later to
federal court.

Sanchez and Contreras, accompanied by Susana Jose, 18, drove to a Kmart parking
lot at Hypoluxo Road and South Dixie Highway to collect the $2,500 balance owed
them by Jose's family for smuggling her to Florida from Guatemala.

Jose's father, Mateo Jose, had made three earlier payments to the smugglers
totaling $2,756, according to authorities.

In the parking lot, Mateo Jose asked the smugglers for a little more time to go
to a bank and get the rest of the money owed them, according to an affidavit by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent Kenneth Cisneros. The
smugglers then sped off with Susana Jose still in their Chevrolet Suburban.

Her family called 911 and initially told police that they had gone to Kmart to
shop when four men kidnapped their daughter and drove off. Later that day, they
admitted that they had met two men to try to complete the smuggling transaction.

Mateo Jose is a Boynton Beach resident and landscaper who began arranging in
February to have his daughter smuggled into Florida.

Susana Jose told authorities that she left Guatemala on Feb. 25 with a group of
people. They walked several hours to contact a smuggler who drove them to
Chiapas, Mexico.

There, they were transferred to another vehicle and driven to Sonora, Mexico,
where they met up with a larger group of about 60 illegal immigrants.

This larger group waited two nights in the desert before crossing into the
United States.

Many were apprehended, but Susana Jose and about 16 others eluded capture and
were taken to a "safe house" near Phoenix, she told authorities.

That's where Sanchez and Contreras picked up Susana Jose and the others for the
trip to Alabama and Florida, she said. She was the final drop-off for the
smuggling ring.

Sanchez, a Chiapas, Mexico, resident, admitted transporting a dozen illegal
immigrants at a cost of $600 to $700 each, Cisneros said in the affidavit.
Contreras, who has lived in Tuscaloosa, Ala., the past two years, told agents
the men charged $1,000 and up per passenger.

Contreras was carrying about $7,000, Sanchez had about $300 and another $4,600
was in their van when they were arrested. Sanchez admitted that the $11,900 was
from payments received by the men for their human cargo, according to Cisneros'
affidavit.

After surviving her long ordeal, Susana Jose's future remains uncertain.

"ICE is still working on a determination on her status in the United States,"
said Nina Pruneda, an agency spokeswoman.

larry_keller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W)
 1. Susan Jose: Her future in the United States is uncertain (mug) 2. Ricardo
Jose Contreras (left), 34, and (mug) 3. Rogino Sanchez, 24, face up to 10 years
on each count. (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              193 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STUDY SHOWS MOST IMMIGRANTS ADOPT AN AMERICAN DIET - THEN PACK ON THE POUNDS

BYLINE: By DAVID WAHLBERG Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Welcome to the United States. Prepare to get fat.

The American melting pot is bubbling over with obesity, a new study says.

People who move here from other countries start out relatively lean. But after
they're here a decade, their girth expands, largely because of fast-food
cuisine.

"The longer you live here, the more likely you are to adopt a traditional
American diet, a higher-carbohydrate and higher-fat diet," said Dr. Mita
Sanghavi Goel of Northwestern University, whose research is published in today's
Journal of the American Medical Association.

After less than a year in the United States, 8 percent of immigrants are obese,
said the study, based on a national survey of more than 32,000 adults that uses
self-reported height and weight. After 15 years, it's 19 percent - near the 22
percent mark for people born here. (Studies that measure height and weight say
that nearly one-third of Americans are obese.)

Immigrants start following the "American weigh" by adding pounds after 10 years,
the study found.

The increase appears to be most prominent among white immigrants, followed by
Latinos and Asians, Goel said. Black immigrants don't significantly gain pounds.

With immigrants making up 11 percent of the U.S. population, the findings have
major implications for efforts to curb the country's obesity epidemic. Goel
blames the trend toward obesity among immigrants on two trademarks of the
American lifestyle: an unhealthy diet and lack of exercise.

- dwahlberg@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              194 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 6, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSE OKS $82 BILLION FOR EMERGENCY SPENDING

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House overwhelmingly passed an $82 billion emergency spending bill Thursday
to pay for military operations and rebuilding efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan as
well as tsunami relief efforts in Asia.

The measure, passed 368-58, also includes provisions - decried by immigrant and
refugee advocates - that would restrict illegal immigrants from getting driver's
licenses, tighten U.S. asylum laws and speed completion of a fence along the
southwest border between the United States and Mexico.

The bill also includes a nearly tenfold increase in death benefits for survivors
of troops killed in combat, money for more border patrol agents, and $592
million for construction, security and maintenance of an American embassy in
Iraq.

The Senate is expected to pass the bill next week and President Bush is expected
to sign it into law.

Most of the money, nearly $76 billion, will go toward the military operations,
bringing the total amount spent on fighting primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan to
about $300 billion since 2001.

The immigration measures - dubbed the REAL ID Act - were attached to the
must-pass spending bill which provides many basics for military troops,
including ammunition, weapons, night vision equipment, radios, and body armor.

Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter, D-N.Y., said that Democrats were forced to vote
for the immigration provisions.

"The House majority has shoved this extreme measure down our throats. How dare
you hide behind our men and women in uniform? This is just the latest example of
the misuse of power," she said.

Democrats were also upset that the overall bill did not include the creation of
a commission to investigate and monitor military contracts in Iraq, which have
been the subject of several government and media investigations .

Republicans touted the overall spending bill as vital to the United States
efforts to rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan and bring democracy to the Middle East.
They also said that the immigration measures will improve national security.

"These provisions will hamper terrorists' ability to travel freely," said Rep.
James Sensenbrenner, R-Wisc., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which
spearheaded the immigration provisions. It will also stop the United States from
granting safe haven to "potentially dangerous aliens," he said.

The bill would require people applying for driver's licenses to confirm their
legal status in the United States. The residents of states that don't comply
won't be allowed to use the driver's licenses as identification to board planes
or apply for Social Security and other federal benefits.

The bill also includes:

- About $4 billion for foreign aid and other international relations programs.

- Funding for 500 new border patrol agents, 50 immigration and customs
investigators and nearly 2,000 detention beds.

- A provision that grants new powers to the Secretary of Homeland Security to
bypass environmental and other laws to safeguard U.S borders.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              195 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE OKS BILL ON WAR, LICENSES

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 424 words


The Senate unanimously approved an $82 billion spending bill Tuesday to pay for
military operations and rebuilding efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as
tsunami relief efforts in Asia.

The measure includes provisions that would set federal standards for driver
licenses and restrict illegal immigrants from getting them, tighten U.S. asylum
laws and speed completion of a fence along the U.S.-Mexican border in the
Southwest.

The driver license provisions have alarmed some states, which say it amounts to
a large unfunded mandate that would be hard to implement. The Senate vote is the
last step before the bill goes to President Bush, who is expected to sign it.

The National Governors Association is concerned about the legislation and is
exploring options. Gov. Mike Huckabee, vice chairman of the association, told
The Associated Press that, if more than half of the governors agree, "we're not
going down without a fight on this."

Several Democrats voted for the bill, despite opposing the immigration
provisions.

The measures - dubbed the REAL ID Act - were attached in the House to a
must-pass spending bill providing many basics for military troops, including
ammunition, weapons, night vision equipment, radios and body armor.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said "anti-immigrant extremists" pushed the
immigration measures.

Proponents said the immigration provisions are necessary to keep terrorists from
taking advantage of poor license standards and U.S. asylum laws.

The spending bill includes a major increase in death benefits for survivors of
troops killed in combat from around $12,000 to $100,000; money for more border
patrol agents; and $592 million for construction, security and maintenance of a
U.S. embassy in Iraq.

Most of the money, nearly $76 billion, will go to military operations.

The REAL ID Act also sets higher burdens for people seeking political asylum,
which immigrant and refugee advocates say will force immigrants to return to
oppressive and dangerous situations.

The bill also includes:

- About $4 billion for foreign aid and other international relations programs.

- Money for 500 new border patrol agents, 50 immigration and customs
investigators and nearly 2,000 detention beds.

- A provision that would bar federal agencies from producing or distributing
video news releases that do not clearly disclose the government as their source.

- A provision that would give the secretary of Homeland Security power to waive
environmental and possibly other laws along the borders for security reasons.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              196 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 28, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN ADVOCATES PUSH FOR JUSTIFICATION OF DETENTION POLICY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitian advocates told a federal judge Friday the U.S. government is not being
responsive to their efforts to determine whether the Bush administration had
evidence to invoke terrorism fears in justifying the indefinite detention,
without bond, of Haitian immigrants.

The Florida Immigration Advocacy Center is suing the government for documents to
back up a decision by former Attorney General John Ashcroft in April 2003 that
implied terrorists from the Middle East and Pakistan might use Haiti as a
"staging point" to infiltrate the United States.

The decision to change immigration policy and detain Haitian asylum seekers on
national security grounds came after a crowded wooden boat containing more than
200 undocumented Haitians and Dominicans came ashore on Key Biscayne in October
2002, under live television coverage.

Requests filed under the Freedom of Information Act with five U.S. government
agencies have thus far produced no public documents containing evidence of
terrorists "disguised as Haitian boat people," said advocacy center attorney
Carl Goldfarb.

The hearing Friday focused on a classified, one-page National Security Agency
document, which U.S. District Judge Alan S. Gold reviewed in private. The NSA, a
Defense Department agency that collects electronic intelligence worldwide, is
asking Gold to keep the document secret under FOIA national security exemptions.

Advocates for the Haitians are challenging that secrecy. They also contend that
the NSA searched its files for evidence of migrants from any third country but
not for those specifically mentioned by Ashcroft - and sought in the FOIA
request - which were Pakistanis and Palestinians.

"The (Ashcroft) opinion makes a link to countries that are associated with
terrorists," Goldfarb said. "It's clear the NSA did not search for what we
specifically requested."

NSA attorney Carole Fernandez, however, said the agency complied fully with the
advocacy center's request by performing a broad search for evidence of
third-country nationals moving through Haiti.

Gold did not issue an immediate ruling, giving both sides more time to file
legal briefs in the case. But he seemed skeptical of the Haitian advocates'
arguments that the NSA had not done enough to meet its FOIA obligation.

The indefinite detention of Haitian immigrants who reach U.S. soil has been a
thorny issue for months for the Bush administration, with allegations of racial
discrimination added to the mix when the policy is compared with the more
lenient treatment of Cubans.

In a June 2004 hearing before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, Ashcroft made
no mention of a terrorism link in responding to a question about the Haitian
detention policy. Instead, he told the committee that the U.S. feared "the
triggering of a mass migration" if Haitians were not detained when they arrive.

Otherwise, he said, the U.S. government's message to Haitians would be "all you
have to do is come, even if they stop you and catch you, you will be evaluated
as just fine and set loose in the country, which is what you would hope to have
happen anyhow."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              197 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

582 ARRESTS SHOW GANGS' SPREAD INTO SMALL TOWNS

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials said Monday that they made 582 arrests last month in a
coast-to-coast sweep of violent immigrant gangs that indicates the problem is
spreading beyond large urban centers into the South and Midwest.

The effort picked up 77 suspected gang members in North Carolina, more than any
other state, and included arrests across the South and Midwest during the July
19-28 effort dubbed "Operation Community Shield."

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, calling the street gangs "a very
serious threat to the public welfare and the public safety of all of our
communities," said the latest operation was part of an anti-gang campaign that
has netted 1,057 arrests.

"The horrific crimes committed by some of the people we have apprehended include
murder, rape, assault, burglary and, of course, weapons and narcotics offenses,"
he said.

He said the overwhelming majority of those arrested were in the country
illegally and subject to deportation.

His department's chief targets are 54 street gangs, including the notorious
MS-13 or "Mara Salvatrucha."

"Usually the gangs had centered in the major cities," said Marcy Forman,
director of investigations for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "But
they certainly have expanded and are emerging in the smaller communities."

After North Carolina, Massachusetts had the second-most arrests: 61, all in
Boston. But other major cities generally had far fewer. Los Angeles had 23, New
York City and Dallas had 15 arrests each, and Miami had 4.

jmalone@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              198 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FILM SPARKS DIALOGUE ABOUT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


In the movie A Day Without a Mexican, California's Hispanic population
mysteriously disappears, leaving crops unpicked, construction sites abandoned,
landscapes unruly, businesses neglected and the economy in a pinch.

A screening of the film attended by more than 550 people this week prompted some
experts to ask: Would Hispanics in Florida be missed or are they already
invisible?

"They don't see themselves as part of the community," said Edward Vega,
moderator and associate professor of English at Palm Beach Community College.

The free campus screening Thursday night sparked a dialogue about immigration
reform before a panel that included Palm Beach County's first Hispanic civil
court judge, Nancy Perez, Migrant Farmworker Justice Project attorney Monica
Ramirez, and Florida Atlantic University Associate Professor Timothy J.
Steigenga, who also is coordinator of the Hispanic Corn-Maya Inc. not-for-profit
organization.

"Why don't they make the effort to integrate?" asked audience member Robert
Goldberg, a retired New York school principal. "A major factor should be the
desire of the immigrant to learn the language because (if not) they reduce the
possibility of their lot in life."

For example, about 70 percent of Florida's Hispanic farm workers are
undocumented and earn about $11,000 a year while creating about $1.5 billion in
revenue, studies show.

"They tend to be workers who aren't paid minimum wage," Ramirez said. "They
don't have benefits, and they're subjected to all kinds of dangers."

Yet, say experts, employers reap a significant gain.

"In Palm Beach County, you don't have to look very far to see the benefits of
immigration," Steigenga said. "The bottom line on immigration is that the
economic impact is a mix."

The ultimate solution for both sides would be for the federal government to
change immigration policies, including the guest-worker program, immigration
advocates say.

The American Jewish Committee of Palm Beach County, which sponsored the
screening, announced the group supports immigration reform. Members have lobbied
for legislation to help high school graduates attend college before attaining
full citizenship.

Immigration attorney Aileen Josephs, an AJC board member, was inspired to show
the movie by a prospective client's letter written in Spanish.

"I hope that you can help me because I want to be someone in this country
because now it is like I do not exist here," wrote the unidentified Guatemalan
man who now works as a carpenter in Naples.

Josephs read the letter before introducing the movie. "There is such an
anti-immigrant feeling in Florida," she said. "This film is for all those people
who live in our country that feel they do not exist."

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              199 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSE OKS 700 MILES OF FENCES AT BORDER

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House approved an amendment late Thursday to add 700 miles of fencing along
key crossings at the U.S.-Mexico border.

The provision, which passed 260-159, was added to a controversial GOP bill that
would make illegal presence in the United States a felony and increase penalties
for employers that hire illegal immigrants.

The border fence amendment, sponsored by Rep. Duncan Hunter, chairman of the
House Armed Service Committee, also requires the government to study whether to
put physical barriers along the U.S.-Canadian border.

Hunter, R-Calif., said a 14-mile fence near San Diego cut the crime rate
dramatically in that area and more barriers will do the same in other locations,
including near Laredo, Texas.

The $2.2 billion price tag is "a fraction of what we spend each year to house
criminal aliens that we have in our federal prisons and in our jails," he added.

Democrats compared the fencing to the Berlin Wall and said that it would send
the wrong message about the United States to the rest of the world. In addition,
they said it would not work because people desperate for work would find a way
around it.

"No wall can be built high enough to solve this problem," said Rep. Lloyd
Doggett, D-Texas.

A final vote on the overall House immigration bill could come as soon as today.

The measure ran into resistance Thursday on both sides of the aisle.

Some Democrats decried the legislation as a xenophobic attack on immigrants,
while some Republicans said it lacked a key component needed to fix the nation's
immigration problem - a mechanism to allow current illegal workers to apply for
temporary visas.

"We have to have comprehensive reform, until we do we are ignoring the elephant
in the room," said Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., who supports a temporary worker
plan.

President Bush has pushed a guest worker proposal, but House Republican leaders
said that border enforcement must be addressed first.

Proponents of the larger House measure said it would help bring order to the
porous and dangerous border and stop the flow of illegal immigrants now
numbering an estimated 11 million.

The bill would stiffen sentences for human smugglers, require businesses to
verify the legal status of their workers, and add new grounds for deporting
illegal immigrants.

Democrats said that the measure was an obvious attempt to win political points
with the right wing of the Republican Party.

The bill is "nothing more than a xenophobic attack on immigrants in search of a
better life," said Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar.

Democrats also said that changing the law to make illegal presence in the United
States a felony instead of a civil offense would turn all illegal immigrants -
including nearly 2 million children - into felons.

The Senate is expected to move on immigration legislation early next year and is
expected to pass a measure that includes a temporary worker program.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              200 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

300 MILLION --AND COUNTING

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Census Bureau is expected to announce this week the birth of the 300
millionth U.S. resident.

That child will be a Hispanic boy born in Los Angeles, predicts Richard Frey, a
demographer with the Brookings Institution in Washington.

"What this represents is a return to the melting pot for America," he said.

In 1915, when the U.S. population reached 100 million on the crest of a wave of
immigration, most children were born in large family households in rural areas.
The largest group of immigrants came from Germany.

In 1967, when the nation hit the 200 million mark, immigration was low, and the
nation was more middle class than in 1915, Frey said. Many adults were living in
new suburbs, and immigrants were mostly from Italy and other European nations.

Today, Hispanic and Asian immigrants are transforming a nation that is becoming
more suburban and ethnically diverse. More than 34 million U.S. residents were
born somewhere else, the largest number in history.

The racial and ethnic changes are just a few of the monumental shifts in the
American experience since 1915, when Woodrow Wilson was president, a gallon of
gas cost a quarter and silent movies captivated the public.

Since then, the nation's population has moved steadily to the West and South as
the economic influence of the industrial Northeast and Midwest has waned.

In addition, Americans have become wealthier, better educated and older. An
average American's life expectancy in 1915 was about 54 years. By 1967, it had
jumped to about 70. It now hovers at almost 78, bringing a host of new
opportunities and problems, such as whether Social Security coffers will run out
as Baby Boomers continue to retire.

Some analysts think that the immigration of young workers is key to maintaining
economic stability as the number of people 65 and over has jumped from about 4
million in 1915 to nearly 37 million in 2006.

But others fear that the rapid immigration is contributing to suburban sprawl,
overcrowded schools and hospitals and decreased quality of life for most
Americans.

The demographic shift that is transforming the United States started in 1965,
when Congress abolished ethnic and racial quotas in immigration.

Two years later, Life magazine officially designated as its 200 millionth
American a baby born in Atlanta, Robert Ken Woo Jr., a fourth-generation
Chinese-American.

At the time, foreign-born people totaled nearly 10 million, or 5 percent of the
population.

Since then, a wave of immigration has led to the record 34 million foreign-born
residents, 12 percent of the population. The Department of Homeland Security
estimates that about 11 million are in the country illegally, which has caused a
national debate on how to curb the flow of people across the border.

Currently, the largest groups of immigrants are from Mexico and other Latin
American countries, and their presence is transforming cities and towns across
the nation. Hispanic immigrants, previously concentrated in border states as
well as in New York, New Jersey, Florida and Illinois, are now migrating to
other areas.

Mexican restaurants and convenience stores called tiendas are popping up
throughout Georgia, North Carolina and Alabama.

The number of immigrants from Asia also has increased dramatically since the
nation's population was hovering around 200 million. In the 1960s, Asian
immigrants accounted for about 13 percent of total immigrants. Now they account
for about 32 percent.

As a result of immigration and the declining birth rate of white Americans, the
country is becoming increasingly Hispanic and Asian.

By 2043, when the Census Bureau estimates the U.S. population will hit the 400
million mark, the nation will be 52 percent white, 22 percent Hispanic, 14
percent black and 7 percent Asian, Frey predicted.

While many say that immigrants are needed to supply labor to the nation --
especially in agriculture, service industries and construction -- others are
worried that the rapid population growth is ruining the quality of life.

Roy Beck, president of NumbersUSA, a group that seeks to curtail high rates of
immigration and population growth, said that sprawling cities and encroachment
of development into wooded areas and farmland are increasing traffic congestion
and making it hard for Americans to experience nature.

"Why does the federal government have to force us to live in ever increasing
density and sprawl?" Beck said.

Meanwhile, the large number of immigrants, including those who entered the U.S.
illegally, has presented unprecedented challenges in many areas.

Many school districts are struggling with how to deal with an influx of students
who speak little or no English. Hospitals in some areas say they are
overwhelmed. Some communities have taken drastic steps locally, including
arresting immigrants for "trespassing" or passing laws to punish landlords for
renting to illegal immigrants.

Marlene Lee, senior policy analyst for the nonprofit Population Reference Bureau
in Washington, said that immigrants have been met with resistance throughout
American history.

"In one period of time, you had reservations about Germans immigrating into the
United States," she said. "In another period of time, you had reservations about
Italians. People have to adjust to new population groups."

emoscoso@coxnews.com

How we've grown

Steady climb:The U.S. population hit 100 million in 1915, 200 million in 1967.

Florida's growth:The state had 923,000 residents in 1915 and6.2 million in
1967.Ithas 17.8 million today.

Coming to America: Today, Mexicans are the largest group of foreign-born people.
In 1915, Germany was the leading country of origin; in 1967, it was Italy.

Compare the times, 4A

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W)
 300 million and counting While the country has changed culturally and
demographically since previous population milestones of 100 million and 200
million, the geography of America's population also has shifted, with the South
and West experiencing the biggest growth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 24, 2004 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

VETERANS AND IMMIGRATION

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 159 words


Veterans Affairs

The 244-bed Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach serves more than a
quarter-million veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St.

Lucie, Indian River, Glades, Okeechobee and Hendry counties. The VA also
operates outpatient clinics in Boca Raton, Delray Beach, Stuart, Fort Pierce,
Vero Beach and Okeechobee. Veterans who need information on services can call
(561) 882-8262. The Vet Center at 2311 10th Ave. N., No. 13, in Lake Worth
provides free counseling for job placement, benefits and post-traumatic stress
disorder. The center's phone number is (561) 585-0441.

Bureau of Citizenship

and Immigration Services

Part of the Department of Homeland Security. Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Satellite office in West Palm Beach serving South Florida is
at 326 Fern St., Suite 200. Phone (800) 375-5283 for recorded messages on
immigration regulations and pending cases. Information is also on the Web at
www.bcis.gov.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DISCOVER The Treasure Coast HEALTH CARE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              202 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 2, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BIG IMMIGRATION WAVES NEARING POLITICAL BEACH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 502 words


Social Security used to be considered the untouchable "third rail" of American
politics, but immigration soon may replace it.

Both candidates bobbed and weaved around the subject during the presidential
campaign, and neither party has offered credible ideas for reform, fearing the
political implications of being the first to propose unpopular solutions to
long-ignored problems. A report released last week by the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington-based group that favors tighter immigration controls,
underscores the nation's need to confront the issue head-on.

The organization's analysis of census numbers found that more than 34 million
immigrants now live in the United States - about 10 million of them illegally -
and that the flow of foreigners into the country came at a steady pace despite
recession and recent attempts to tighten border controls. The evidence suggests
that bad economic conditions in the United States are still better than in
immigrants' native countries, and that changes put in place after 9/11 have done
little to curb migration, especially across the nation's southern border.

Nearly 10.5 million legal U.S. residents have come from Mexico, meaning that
they make up close to one-third of the foreign-born population. President Bush
met with Mexican President Vicente Fox and other Latin American leaders last
month and said he would send to Congress a guest-worker plan that would allow
millions of undocumented laborers to work legally in this country for temporary
periods. Liberals oppose the idea because it wouldn't go far enough in offering
immigrants a path toward legal residency, and conservatives oppose it because
they believe it would encourage more migration. The political calculus is
difficult as ever, but a deal with Mexico, which President Bush promised at the
start of his first term, remains the critical centerpiece for comprehensive
reform.

As Time magazine reported in September, the issue has national security
ramifications. About 60,000 of the illegals who cross from Mexico are not
Mexican; some are from Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran. Without control of the
border, there is no control of security.

From a societal standpoint, a nation of immigrants is becoming increasingly more
so. The CIS study found that, as a share of the total population, foreign-born
people account for 12 percent, up from 11 percent four years ago. That is the
highest percentage in more than 80 years. The ethnic diversity of this influx,
however, has declined because so many of the immigrants came from Mexico.

From a business standpoint, immigrant labor remains essential, especially in the
restaurant and hotel industries that dominate the Florida economy. That is a
reality the federal government cannot continue to ignore. Frustrated border
states such as Arizona, which just passed a citizens' initiative restricting
public services to illegal immigrants, are starting to act on their own. Such a
hodgepodge policy will bring unintended consequences, not progress.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              203 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS LOWER IN IMMIGRANTS THAN IN U.S.-BORN

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 287 words


According to the results of a National Institutes of Health study in the
December issue of the Archives of General Psychiatry, Mexican Americans and
non-Hispanic whites born in the United States have a higher risk for developing
psychiatric disorders than their foreign-born counterparts who have immigrated
to the United States.

The psychiatric disorders included alcohol- and drug-use disorders, major
depression, dysthymia, mania, hypomania, and panic disorder.

"The remarkable pattern seen in these results defies explanation based on
current knowledge," said Dr. George Kunos, scientific director, Division of
Intramural Biological and Clinical Research at the National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism, the NIH institute that conducted the study.

"Additional careful research is required to fully understand the influences of
individual and environmental factors in the causes of psychiatric disorders."

After controlling for age, sex, marital status, residence, geographic region,
education, and income, the authors determined that, with few exceptions, risk
for all the psychiatric disorders assessed was significantly greater among
U.S.-born than foreign-born non-Hispanic whites and among U.S.-born than
foreign-born Mexican Americans.

"Foreign-born study participants were at lower risk of major psychiatric
disorders even though they may have experienced greater stress due to low
socioeconomic status or adapting to a new culture," study authors said. "This is
consistent with the 'healthy migrant' model that predicts that foreign-born
persons in good health are more likely than those in poor health to immigrate to
the United States." However, they said it didn't explain all the findings.

- Carolyn Susman

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HEALTH NOTES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              204 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 19, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PRESIDENT'S IMMIGRATION PLAN WOULD OVERWHELM NATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 199 words


I agree with your Dec. 2 editorial, "Big immigration waves nearing political
beach." Political leaders, liberal and conservative, can enjoy the sunshine on
that beach if they advocate drastic immigration reductions in a positive manner.

Our labor markets, schools, hospitals and other infrastructure are overburdened.
If a political leader tells natives and legal immigrants that this country needs
a time-out from mass immigration so that we can educate, save jobs for, and
invest in all legal residents of diverse backgrounds, how many voters would
oppose such a call?

If the president's de facto amnesty plan were adopted, unlimited numbers of
newcomers, professional and low-skilled, could receive "temporary" work visas
and, later, U.S. citizenship. Once naturalized, they could petition for their
extended families to immigrate to the United States, thus adding unlimited
numbers of job-seekers, drivers, water and energy consumers and social service
recipients. Foresight, courage and common-sense are urgently needed to reform
this nation's immigration policy.

YEH LING-LING

Oakland, Calif.

Editor's note: Yeh Ling-Ling is executive director of the Diversity Alliance for
a Sustainable America.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              205 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 23, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOLEY: PROPOSED JOB CENTER 'CONDONES ILLEGAL ACTIVITY'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SORENTRUE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


U.S. Rep. Mark Foley is urging town officials not to open a day labor center
that would keep hundreds of Guatemalan and Mexican men from waiting along Center
Street each morning to find work.

Foley sent a letter to Mayor Karen Golonka this week, saying the town would be
sending the wrong message if it creates a neighborhood resource center where the
immigrant workforce can line up for jobs indoors and away from residential
neighborhoods. Opponents claim the workers are primarily illegal aliens.

"No question, it condones illegal activity," Foley, R-West Palm Beach, said
Wednesday. "It creates a perception that these might be certified workers."

The town, which has researched municipalities in Texas and California that have
established labor centers for immigrant populations, budgeted $200,000 this year
to rent or buy a location for the facility.

But the council remains divided on the issue and has yet to reach a consensus on
its construction. Golonka did not return phone calls Wednesday.

In his letter, Foley offered to help town officials come up with a "better
course of action that will meet everyone's needs." He said if the center is
approved, it will attract illegal workers from across the Treasure Coast and
southern Palm Beach County to Jupiter.

The illegal jobs, Foley said, are a strain on the economy and the health-care
system.

"The first step has to be getting them legally established here," Foley said.

Corn Maya Inc., nonprofit migrant advocacy organization, has proposed
establishing the center as an employment office where day laborers can get job
referrals. Jeronimo Camposeco, a spokesman for the Jupiter-based group, said he
wasn't surprised by Foley's letter.

"He's obeying his constituents," Camposeco said. "Politicians need votes.
Immigrant people don't vote."

Foley said he decided to speak out because he fears the center was "getting
closer to fruition."

Foley joins a growing list of local and federal groups opposing the labor
center.

A group of homeowners has formed Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor. They
say the center would encourage an influx of day laborers and would break the
law.

And last month, the Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform,
known as FAIR, sent Golonka a similar letter warning that the town would violate
federal law by approving the employment center, claiming it would be used by
undocumented workers.

Jack Martin, a spokesman for the nonprofit, nonpartisan agency, welcomed Foley's
concerns.

"It's a very positive response," Martin said of the letter. "In general, we feel
that local officials are not familiar in dealing with immigration issues, and
they end up making decisions that are poorly informed."

jennifer_sorentrue@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mark Foley (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              206 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 29, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT LABOR VEXES BUT VITAL, AS ALWAYS

BYLINE: Emily J. Minor

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 558 words


Pam Greenberg might be worldly enough, but she never in a million years could
have predicted this.

"I felt really stupid," she says now.

Greenberg, 34, was shopping on Lake Avenue in Lake Worth a few months back when
something weird happened. She pulled into a parking spot, a parallel spot on the
street in front of her favorite frame shop. "It happened before I even turned
off the car," she says.

Workers - police later told her they were immigrant laborers looking for work -
thought she was there to hire them for odd jobs. And without uttering a sound,
they "all rushed the car," she says.

"I was thinking, in my paranoid mind, 'OK. I'm going to be carjacked.' What
really scared me was one of the men got into the back seat, and I became like a
mother bear. I did like a sidekick on one of the guys."

Greenberg had her older son with her that day, age 7, and she said the men took
the liberty of scooting him over when they pushed into the back seat of her car.

Within seconds - amid her screaming and kicking and their talking in either
Spanish or Portuguese, which she doesn't understand - the whole gang was so
flustered that the workers had scattered. Greenberg had called police from right
there on her cellphone.

"They said absolutely nothing to me," she said. "My windows weren't even down.
They just stormed the car."

That was in August.

Five months later, Greenberg finds herself in a rather unenviable position.

She's the poster girl for a recent flurry of police ticketing on Lake Avenue -
something that drew the ire of immigrant advocates this week - when police said
the city will no longer tolerate the throngs of potential workers who hang out
on the street looking for jobs.

Citing Greenberg - not by name, but by what happened to her that morning - they
began handing out this notice:

The Lake Worth Police Department is informing the public, as a courtesy, that
consistent with Florida Statutes it is unlawful to employ, hire, recruit or
refer for employment, an alien who is not duly authorized for work.

And now, for the tricky part, i.e. Half the state uses immigrant labor, from
lawn work to housekeeping to field work, and all the important politicians know
this.

Friday, three leading human rights organizations - the local ACLU, Florida Legal
Services and Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center Inc. - sent a spirited letter to
Lake Worth Police Chief William Smith asking him to stop handing out the
notices.

What's happening in Lake Worth - police say men gather early in the morning,
before 7 a.m., and stand along Lake Avenue waiting for potential employers to
drive by - is emblematic of what happens in communities with large immigrant
populations. And, so far, dealing with it around here has been a lose-lose
situation.

In Jupiter, after throngs of men began causing traffic problems on Center
Street, town officials tried to make a community center the gathering point.

Residents - many of them dressed in red, white and blue - went nuts, pointing
out that the town was trying to provide a meeting point for people who want to
hire someone illegally. Many of these workers don't pay taxes, and they
certainly don't earn Social Security benefits or overtime.

But for Pam Greenberg, it's a simple matter of just living her life.

"I haven't been back to that frame shop," she said. "And he does really nice
work."

emily_minor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              207 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 14, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WALKING A MILE AS IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT P. KING Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


His white beard dangling over his blue sweater, Grant Cobb tapped his cane
nervously as the immigration officer grilled him without mercy.

No, Grant admitted, he doesn't have a job. "I'm retired," he said, shrugging.
"I'm 79 years old."

"What are you going to do here?" the officer demanded. "Are you here to take our
charity?"

Grant finally got his clearance to leave Ellis Island, but if he wound up living
on the streets, the officer warned, the United States would send him back to
Russia.

Grant, really an 11-year-old from North Palm Beach, later revealed the secret to
his trek through the U.S. immigration system, circa 1910: his pillowcase filled
with beads.

"I bribed everyone," he said before limping off, still in character.

Sunday's role-playing exercise at Temple Beth David drew about 200 Jewish
children from Palm Beach and Martin counties for a lesson about the hardships of
their immigrant ancestors.

First, megaphone-wielding thugs ousted the children from their Russian village,
or shtetl (in this case, a small yard with a few tables and some goats). Then
the children, many clad in yarmulkes and head scarves, endured long lines to
seek passports and visa papers, the arduous journey across the ocean and the
gantlet of interrogators and medical quarantine at Ellis Island.

At every stop, officials shook them down for bribes, confiscated their cash and
jewelry, and arbitrarily changed their names: Levinsky became Levin, Chaya
Rubinoff became Susan Rubi, and a few ended up as Bakers. And, for any reason,
they could be sent back to possible death in their old country.

The reenactment was part of the children's studies of Jewish immigration. It
also offered a glimpse at the experiences of some of their modern-day peers,
temple Program Director Janie Grackin said.

"Then as now," Grackin said, "what makes people come to America - whether your
classmates are from El Salvador or Vietnam or Germany - the 'why' is clearly the
same: to make a better life for your children."

Temple Beth David has offered the reenactment on a smaller scale for years. This
year, with help from the Friedman Commission for Jewish Education, the temple
expanded the program to sixth- and seventh-graders at seven Jewish
congregations. Sunday's program also included parents, teachers and adult
learners.

Michele Dobin of Temple Beth Am in Jupiter said the lessons would stay with her.

"We kind of learned to respect our ancestors and what they went through," said
Dobin, 11. "It just makes you love them that much more."

bob_king@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & 1 B&W)
 PHOTOS BY RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Eric Benaim, 11, of
Jupiter joins classmates in re-creating the crowds of Ellis Island during a
reenactment Sunday at Temple Beth David in Palm Beach Gardens. 2. (C) Details
such as immigration documents helped students 'respect our ancestors and what
they went through,' as Michele Dobin of Jupiter said. 3. (B&W) Elise Levine of
Palm Beach Gardens portrays the Statue of Liberty for students going through the
crowded feel of Ellis Island Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              208 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 28, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ONLY OPTION FOR FLORIDA, U.S. IS TO LIMIT IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 251 words


The front-page photo in the Feb. 20 edition of The Palm Beach Post showing the
endless stretch of stalled traffic on Okeechobee Boulevard was frightening. But
it showed the results of overcrowding, not the cause.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that we are running out of room
not only in Florida but also in the entire United States. I think the time is
overdue when we should begin to question whether the U.S. should continue to
tell the world to "give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses . . . "

America needs to get serious about closing its doors. We no longer can allow up
to 1 million people a year (not counting the illegal immigrants) to come into
this country and burden its already rapidly diminishing resources. I'm not
saying we should eliminate immigration, just cap it at somewhere around 300,000.
We have to limit only the numbers, not who comes in. There's nothing incendiary
or hateful about that idea.

Because of immigration, people who are in their 20s now will see our population
double in their lifetime. According the Census Bureau, because of mass
immigration, the population in the U.S. soon will exceed a half-billion people.
Ninety percent of the U.S. population growth in the next century will be the
direct result of the current wave of mass immigration. Every day, another 6,000
immigrants arrive. Developers are building more than 600 new homes a month in
north Palm Beach County. Congress, help us put a stop to this madness.

RICHARD GAULDEN

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              209 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 3, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONSULATE HELPS GUATEMALANS GET ID CARDS

BYLINE: By CONNIE PILOTO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Hundreds of Guatemalan immigrants flocked to the Mayan Services center Saturday
to apply for passports and identification cards.

Waldemar Lopez was standing in line outside the center before it opened at 8
a.m. By noon, more than 200 had applied for the documentation.

Lopez said he needed an identification card so he could buy a license plate for
his car.

After submitting his paperwork and paying an $80 fee, Lopez returned with his
wife, Silvia Gomez, so she could apply for a passport and ID card, too.

"We needed ID cards," Lopez said. "Applying for the cards here is a lot easier
than having to drive to Miami."

The Guatemalan Consulate set up the mobile office in the Northwood neighborhood
to help immigrants start the paperwork process to obtain the documents.

"We are trying to get our people to get proper identification," said Hugo Hun
Archila, Guatemala's vice consulate for the southeast region.

The passport and consulate identification cards will help immigrants open bank
accounts so they can carry less cash and become less vulnerable to assaults and
robberies, Archila said.

The cards are fashioned after those the consulate issues to Mexican nationals.
The cards, known as Mexican matriculas, are widely accepted as identification
cards in the United States.

The mobile consulate unit ventures about once a month into communities heavily
populated with Guatemalan immigrants. Mobile units have been set up in Stuart,
Immokalee and Homestead this year.

Archila estimates that about 300,000 Guatemalans live in the southern region of
the United States. But the number fluctuates because many immigrants travel from
state to state to work in the fields.

At the center, immigrants had to present Guatemalan birth certificates or
passports before being photographed, fingerprinted and questioned by consulate
officials.

The information, including the fingerprints, is entered into a computer and
compared with a registry the Guatemalan government keeps to ensure accuracy
before a passport or ID card is issued.

The registry often helps law enforcement agencies identify people who are killed
in accidents while working in the States and are not carrying any
identification.

"I've been here seven years, but I don't have an identification card with my
picture on it," said Herlinda Gonzalez, 24, of West Palm Beach.

connie_piloto@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              210 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 10, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

KEEP OUT. NOW THAT YOU'RE HERE . . .

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 739 words


If you think Americans are deeply conflicted about immigration, you're right.
And if you think we're going to get even more conflicted in the months ahead,
you're right again.

Take a look at what's going on in Jupiter and in Cochise County, Ariz., and you
get some idea of how far our thinking about immigration ranges.

Last week in Jupiter, the town council took a progressive step toward
integrating immigrant and migrant workers, regardless of their legal status,
into the larger community. Council members approved plans to create a
neighborhood resource center for day laborers on property close to the town
hall. The center would give workers a place to link up with employers and end
the daily calamities on Center Street, where curbside pickups had angered
residents. Beyond employment help, the center also could provide legal
referrals, health information and English classes.

Meanwhile, in Cochise County, along the Mexican border, hundreds of volunteers,
recruited through the Internet from across the country, have gathered to take
part in the monthlong Minuteman Project. Their stated mission is to be both
civilian patrol and immigration protest group. Some armed with walkie-talkies
and some with handguns, they hope to succeed where the U.S. Border Patrol is
failing and stem the flow of illegal crossings.

The government's official position is that the Minutemen are a hindrance. They
have tripped surveillance devices meant to detect migrants, and, according to
The Associated Press, three volunteers are under investigation after a man
complained to authorities that he was held against his will and forced to pose
for a photo holding a T-shirt with a mocking slogan: "Bryan Barton caught an
illegal alien, and all I got was this T-shirt."

The Border Patrol reports that apprehensions of illegal immigrants have fallen
sharply since the volunteers arrived.

So, the dichotomy of opinion on immigration is at least as wide as the space
between Jupiter and Cochise County. Americans in one place recognize the
essential economic role illegal immigrants play in filling the menial jobs no
one else will take, so a town is willing to reach out to them. Americans in
another place are committed to stopping illegal immigrants from coming and are
willing to put themselves on the line to make it happen.

Who is right? Here is where the absurdity of U.S. policy - or non-policy - rears
its head: In principle, they both are.

Americans should have every expectation that their borders are secure,
especially since 9/11. We are a nation of immigrants, but the immigration that
built the nation was legal. The government shouldn't pick and choose the laws it
enforces. This is a country with a long history of rewarding people who play by
the rules. It is contrary to American values to reward people who don't.

Yet what incredible contributions illegal immigrants make here each day. Florida
could not open for business in the morning without them. They pick the tomatoes,
make the hotel beds, care for the children and bus the restaurant tables. They
do the work that wouldn't get done. The native population owes a large measure
of its prosperity to the hard labor of the stealth population that isn't
supposed to be here. Apart from their status, the overwhelming majority of
illegal immigrants are playing by the rules, paying taxes, following the law and
making the nation stronger.

It is impossible to solve the immigration problem without acknowledging its
fundamental hypocrisy: We cannot tell people they are unwelcome to come here
while we also are telling them that we really need them, and, if they make it
here, that plenty of good jobs are waiting.

A solution lies in creating a legal path. More than 60 U.S. senators support an
AgJOBS guest-worker program that provides incremental steps to legal status for
farmworkers and could be used as the model for larger reform. President Bush has
proposed a framework for a similar plan. But political expediency remains the
biggest obstacle to change. Congress finds it more fashionable to exploit Terri
Schiavo's tragedy and Social Security hysterics than to confront an
emotion-charged issue.

Because the federal government continues to shirk its responsibility, zealots
march in Arizona and council members brainstorm in Jupiter. In their own ways,
both have the right idea.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              211 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 17, 2005 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

AFTER TWO MARIELS,;
NO MAS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1352 words


Two months before Mariel refugees flooded ashore in 1980, Cuba issued a clear
warning to United States diplomats. "If your government wants people in small
boats, we can give you more than you bargained for," Vice President Carlos
Rafael Rodriguez said in a private meeting with Wayne Smith, chief of the U.S.
diplomatic mission in Havana.

Fidel Castro repeated the threat in a public speech in March, two weeks before a
bus loaded with Cubans crashed through the gates of the Peruvian embassy in
Havana, triggering the epic Mariel exodus. The White House was caught off guard
by Mariel, despite the warnings. It had forgotten the lesson of Camarioca, the
port Castro used in 1965 to dispatch 5,000 Cubans on boats heading to the United
States.

In each case, Castro used mass migration to express his wrath and gain
concessions. His objective was the same: to persuade the United States to
discourage illegal immigration, an embarrassment to his regime, while
encouraging illegal immigration to relieve internal discontent. It took 14
years, and a second Mariel on the horizon, before the United States recognized
the pattern and invoked a policy intended to end all Mariels.

In 1994, for the first time in 34 years, the welcome mat for Cubans taking to
boats and rafts was yanked. The 35,000 Cubans who put to sea that year were
plucked from the Florida Straits by U.S. patrol boats and taken to the Navy base
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Since then, Cubans found at sea by U.S. authorities are
immediately returned to Cuba - to the port of Mariel. Once the gateway to
America's generous "open arms" policy, Mariel is now the symbol of freedom
denied.

"It would be very difficult for another flotilla to come to the United States
and be admitted," said Guarione Diaz, a Cuban-American from Miami who was
assigned to Guantanamo by the White House in 1994 to work with the detained
Cubans. "The United States wouldn't allow it."

The threat of another Mariel in 1994 was the turning point. Immigration rules
adopted that year classified Cubans taking to the sea as "migrants" seeking
economic opportunity rather than "refugees" seeking freedom. In 1980, indecision
and lack of political will made such reforms impossible.

President Jimmy Carter, who championed human rights as his key foreign-policy
issue, saw refugees fleeing communism as a victory for democracy. By the time he
realized Castro was getting the greater benefit by exporting 125,000 Cubans who
opposed his rule, it was too late. "History might say we were naive," said Dan
Mica, a Democratic congressman from Lake Worth in 1980. "Castro took advantage
of the situation in every way he could."

"There are numerous lessons from Mariel," said Victor Palmieri, Mr. Carter's
coordinator of refugee affairs in 1980. "At the top is the dysfunctional
relationships at the top of government."

Mr. Palmieri, interviewed from his home in California, blamed the CIA for not
disclosing satellite photos of 1,500 boats sitting in Mariel harbor waiting to
pick up refugees as policymakers gathered in the White House Situation Room to
discuss a response. "The game," Mr. Palmieri said, "was over."

The U.S., Mr. Smith of the diplomatic mission claimed, should not have been
caught off guard. He cabled Washington about the threats of mass migration.
"Mariel came about because of the utter failure on the part of the Carter
administration to address the problem," said Mr. Smith, who now heads the Cuba
program for the Washington-based Center for International Policy.

The consequence of allowing refugees into the country without screening became
clear at Fort Chaffee, Ark., where thousands were detained for processing. "We
calculated that within six to eight hours of getting into the camp, some made
weapons from the bed frames," Mr. Palmieri said. "They were organizing male and
female prostitution groups. Castro had opened his prisons and included in the
flow about 5,000 to 10,000 hardened criminals."

Mr. Palmieri termed it an "act of war." When refugees rioted at Fort Chaffee and
broke through fences to escape, Mr. Palmieri said he and Bill Clinton, then
Arkansas' governor, watched as nervous residents gathered on rooftops with
shotguns. Mr. Clinton lost his reelection bid that year partly because of the
riots.

As president 14 years later, Mr. Clinton found himself facing another refugee
wave from Cuba that could create a similar crisis and sink his hopes for a
second term. But with hundreds of rafters heading to U.S. shores, there was no
urgent response from the White House. U.S. ships patrolling the Straits of
Florida were holding rafters aboard, but some slipped into the U.S. on
freighters and small boats.

That's when Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles threatened to dispatch state troopers to
Key West to stop the federal government from releasing any detained Cubans on
Florida soil. To underscore his threat, he declared a state of emergency and put
the National Guard on alert. "This is an emergency down here," Gov. Chiles told
a nationwide audience on CNN. "We know that. All the citizens of South Florida
know that. And we're waiting for the (Clinton) administration to know that."

On a visit to Key West, Gov. Chiles was astounded by the superficial health and
criminal background checks planned for the first of the refugees, said Mark
Schlakman, the governor's staff attorney on immigration issues at the time. Gov.
Chiles found that the checks consisted of an immigration official asking a Cuban
if he had a criminal record. If he answered, no, Mr. Schlakman recalled, the
interview was complete.

"The background checks and health screening took a matter of seconds," Mr.
Schlakman said. The governor worried that the federal bureaucracy could become
overwhelmed again. "Given the lesson of history," Mr. Schlakman said, "the
governor was intent on doing everything he could to chart a different course."

Castro's manipulations actually began in 1965, when he allowed about 5,000
Cubans to take to the sea from Camarioca, east of Havana. After that exodus,
President Lyndon Johnson agreed to initiate the Cuban Freedom Flights that
brought nearly 300,000 Cubans to the United States from 1966 to 1973.

Yet Castro kept winning concessions. After Mariel, the United States agreed to
issue as many as 20,000 visas each year to Cubans but usually fell way short.
After 1994, the United States conceded to a minimum of 20,000 visas a year. He
also won assurances that the U.S. authorities would prosecute Cubans who hijack
boats and planes to get to Florida. A wave of hijackings preceded both Mariel
and the rafter exodus.

"Encouraging social indiscipline, crime and illegal migration, inevitably had to
cause - and eventually did cause - a serious migration crisis," Castro said in a
1999 speech. While Cuban refugees no longer get a hero's reception, they still
get preferential treatment if they step foot on U.S. soil.

"We are continuing making exceptions for Cubans," said Miami immigration lawyer
Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. Even with the
welcome mat for Cubans pulled in 1994, the rafters still made it to shore after
being detained for months at Guantanamo. Almost all of the 15,000 Haitian
refugees sharing the detention camp were sent back to Haiti.

"That suggests our government is still open to welcoming Cubans," said Little,
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

When Cubans land on U.S. soil, she said, they speed through detention and are
released into the community. Haitians and others seeking political asylum are
quickly returned if their claims appear frivolous. Or they can be detained
months while awaiting a review.

Mariel brought an end to mass migration, but not the exodus. Since the policy
changed in 1994, the U.S. has returned 10,086 Cubans caught at sea but allowed
in more than 217,000 others with visas, according to federal immigration
reports. The slow-motion exodus is more acceptable to U.S. policymakers, Ms.
Little said. "They are not coming off boats on Key Biscayne."

Bill Douthat is a staff writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-maill address is
bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  25 YEARS AFTER MARIEL

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2005



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, a caption in The Palm Beach Post Sunday
incorrectly said Eglin Air Force Base was in Pensacola. It is near Fort Walton
Beach. The error appeared on Page 6E of the Opinion section.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 B&W & 3 C)
 1. (B&W) BILL REINKE/1980 Miami News File Photo Mariel refugees, among the
125,000 who came from Cuba in 1980, approach Key West with the Coast Guard
cutter Diligence in the background. President Jimmy Carter originally saw the
massive migration as a human rights triumph but later realized its political
benefits to the Fidel Castro's regime. 2. (C) TIM CHAPMAN/The Miami Herald 1980
Mariel refugees celebrate after they are flown from Key West to Eglin Air Force
Base near Pensacola. 3. (C) GREG LOVETT/Palm Beach Post File Photo 1994 Caption
The U.S. Coast Guard stops Cuban rafters trying to reach the United States. 4.
(C) GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer No longer welcomed without question In 1994,
for the first time in 34 years, the welcome mat for Cubans taking to boats and
rafts was yanked. The 35,000 Cubans who put to sea that year were plucked from
the Florida Straits by U.S. patrol boats and taken to the Navy base (above) at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              212 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 6, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

21 PEOPLE IN CUSTODY AFTER LANDING IN JUPITER;
TWO WOMEN IN GROUP ARE PREGNANT

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


A group of 21 Caribbean-born immigrants came ashore near dawn Thursday, marking
the fourth such landing in the area in three months.

U.S. Border Patrol and city police took the 16 men and five women - two of them
pregnant - into custody around 6:40 a.m. after they were spotted by a clerk at
the Coastal Gas station on U.S. 1 and Alternate A1A, said officer Sally Collins,
a police spokeswoman. The men and women are from various countries - including
Jamaica, Haiti and Dominican Republic - and were turned over to the U.S. Border
Patrol. The two pregnant women were taken to Jupiter Medical Center for an
evaluation as a precaution and then released into federal custody, Collins said.

Investigators are not ruling out the possibility that the landing was part of a
broader smuggling operation, but added that they believe the well-lit shoreline
along northern Palm Beach County and southern Martin County may be a draw to
immigrants who journey by water because of certain visible landmarks including
the Hobe Sound Loran tower, the Jupiter Lighthouse area, the Juno Beach Pier and
the Lost Tree Village development in North Palm Beach.

"It's a very visible beach when you're offshore at night," Collins said.

In March, authorities detained 13 men and women believed to be illegal
immigrants from Haiti, Jamaica and China who were spotted near the Palm
Beach/Martin County line.

A motorist suspected the group as they walked along U.S. 1.

In April, Juno Beach authorities caught about eight out of 18 immigrants who
came ashore around 6 a.m. after a fisherman witnessed several people being
released from a boat offshore. They were still being spotted 12 hours later near
A1A and U.S. 1.

That same month, Juno Beach police also detained four others in a separate
incident.

Local police assist the border patrol by detaining the immigrants until federal
officials take them into custody.

Police in Juno Beach do not believe the recent landings point to a spike in the
number of illegal immigrants that have recently arrived by water.

"It's been going on for years," said Assistant Chief Robert Mutz. But the recent
incidents have alerted police in the surrounding cities to anticipate an
increase of arrivals along the shoreline, according to Juno Beach Police Chief
H.C. "Skip" Clark II.

"We're aware there's an influx," Clark said. "We're taking measures to apprehend
the illegal immigrants when they reach the shore."

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              213 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 31, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RED TAPE KEEPS SON FROM WEST PALM FAMILY

BYLINE: By JANE DAUGHERTY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Christian DeGrow was only four months old when his teenage mother, a U.S.
citizen, tearfully left him in the Philippines, where he was born, to find work
in Florida.

"There are no jobs in the Philippines, even for college graduates. People get
sick from the water, especially in rural areas like where I lived. There are no
sewers and raw sewage runs in the streets when it rains," said Christian's
mother, Diana DeGrow Vattiat, now 23 and married to Paul Vattiat of West Palm
Beach.

"I reluctantly left my baby with my mother for what I thought would be six
months so I could earn enough money to get an apartment and bring him to the
United States," she said.

Diana got a job as a Publix cashier, which is how she met Paul, manager of food
services at GE Medical in Jupiter. Paul, a Florida native, began helping her
with the voluminous paperwork required by U.S. immigration officials, whose
agency became part of the Department of Homeland Security after the Sept. 11
attacks.

That was more than three years ago. She still has no idea when she will be
reunited with her child.

"She would cry every time we started filling out the forms," Vattiat said.
"Sometimes we would have to start over because the ink would get messed up. She
still cries every night for her baby."

Her plight is not unusual, said Cheryl Little, an attorney and executive
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

"When a U.S. citizen can't get her minor child into the country, it's just
ludicrous," Little said. "There is no question that he is eligible to come here.
Family unity is supposed to be the cornerstone of our immigration policy, but
there are plenty of other cases like theirs where the paperwork falls into this
bureaucratic morass."

Under immigration law, minor children of U.S. citizens who are born abroad are
entitled to enter the United States to live with their parent or parents. They
are usually granted quick citizenship.

"I found out later that if I had brought him with me on a visitor's visa, he
could have stayed here," Diana Vattiat said, choking back tears. "But I had
almost no money and needed to get a job to work to support him. I thought I was
doing the right thing leaving him with my mother for a few months until I could
afford to send for him."

Diana and Paul Vattiat have another child on the way, due Aug. 3, but the couple
cannot figure out what to do to reunite 4-year-old Christian with his mother.

There is no doubt about Diana's citizenship. The daughter of a U.S. serviceman,
she has a valid U.S. passport and an official birth certificate showing that she
is Christian's mother, said immigration attorney Stuart Karden, whom they hired
to handle their case.

"Unfortunately, this process can take a very, very long time," Karden said.
"It's heartbreaking for the families, but the reality is this paperwork can take
years to be processed. I wish they would come back to me and hire me to do some
more work for them."

But after spending several thousand dollars to retain Karden, Paul Vattiat said
they no longer can afford additional legal fees, especially with no guarantee
that Christian would be able to join them.

"Our case has been assigned to the Texas district office, then transferred to
Vermont when it was about to come up for a decision, then transferred to
Nebraska when it was scheduled to come up for a decision in Vermont - or maybe
Nebraska was before Vermont," Vattiat said with disgust.

He and Diana have made three trips to the Philippines to see Christian and his
grandmother. They also have applied for a visitor's visa for Imelda DeGrow so
she can visit Christian in the United States, making the transition easier on
both. The last trip cost more than $6,000, they said.

"He's very attached to my mother," Diana said. "But when we left the Philippines
a few weeks ago, he was telling all his friends that Paul is getting all the
papers to bring him to the U.S. to live with us and be his daddy."

Paul has begun the paperwork to adopt Christian, but because that takes longer
than petitioning to bring him to this country as the child of a U.S. citizen,
that is an issue for when - or if - he arrives.

"We've spent thousands and thousands of dollars in attorneys' fees, filing fees
for all the immigration forms, producing documentation of Diana's citizenship,"
he said. "The immigration people told us to expect this to take 990 days and
that's because their computer system time log doesn't go to four figures. They
told us that people were transferred out of processing families' immigration
requests to fighting terrorism.

"This ordeal for us has been torture. Can you imagine a mother being kept from
her baby when there are no legal issues? He's not exactly a terrorist threat.
They acknowledge that Diana is a U.S. citizen and that Christian totally
qualifies for a visa to come here to live with her and become a citizen. There
are no quotas that affect his status because he's a minor child of a U.S.
citizen."

Five calls to the Department of Homeland Security's U.S. Citizen and Immigration
Services in Washington and Miami, seeking information on Christian DeGrow's
case, were not returned.

The CIS computer system listed the case as last reviewed Nov. 14, 2004, with
initial processing complete, and projected that it would take "less than"
another 540 days to reach the next stage, a review by the Philippine consul.

"You're usually talking about another 300 days for that process," Karden said.

Pleas to two local congressmen have failed to speed up the process.

When the Vatiatts lived in a rented home in Lake Worth, they contacted U.S. Rep.
E. Clay Shaw Jr.'s office for help but were offered only assistance with filling
out the forms.

After Hurricane Jeanne destroyed their home and most of their belongings, they
moved to West Palm Beach and contacted U.S. Rep. Mark Foley's office. His local
staff members also offered to help with the paperwork, Paul Vattiat said, but
advised that they could do nothing to hasten the processing by the Department of
Homeland Security.

"We weren't asking for special treatment, just for the case to be ruled on,"
Vattiat said. "In the meantime, Christian is growing up without the benefit of
the educational opportunities we could give him, without good water, without
medical care. We send $300-$500 a month to his grandmother for his care, but
even the food she can buy is sometimes limited.

"We got as far as the check-in for the plane to the U.S. with him three weeks
ago. I bought him a ticket and we had his Philippine passport, hoping we could
bring him home with us, but they refused to let him board . . .

"Mother's Day was a very sad time at our house and it doesn't look like Father's
Day is going to be any better."

- jane_daugherty@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & B&W)
 1. (C) Christian DeGrow, 4: Lives in the Philippines with maternal grandmother.
(mug) 2. (C) ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer Diana DeGrow Vattiat and husband
Paul in the room they have prepared for Christian. Both are U.S. citizens. 'She
still cries every night for her baby,' he said. 3. (B&W) Family photo 'I found
out later that if I had brought him with me on a visitor's visa, he could have
stayed here,' says Diana DeGrow Vattiat, shown with son Christian, who remains
in the Philippines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              214 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 4, 2005 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

OKEECHOBEE WOMAN NOW OFFICIALLY U.S. CITIZEN

BYLINE: By LONA O'CONNOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Through a metal detector, up a stairway, down a long hall and past a locked
metal door: Those were the last few steps on the long journey that Marie Hagan
took to regain the U.S. citizenship she says was hers all along.

Hagan, 62, of Okeechobee took the oath of citizenship in the quiet office of the
federal immigration service in downtown Miami. She had been trying since 1998 to
persuade government officials that she is a citizen of the United States and not
an illegal immigrant.

Under pressure from U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., with help from a deputy
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security and a 4-inch-thick file of
documents, she finally prevailed over the bureaucratic machinery that stood
between her and unemployment checks, Social Security benefits, a passport and
all the other rights and privileges of documented American citizens.

Accompanied by her son Rick Kinder and her daughter Bonnie Armstrong, Hagan
stood before immigration supervisor Jo-Anne Pennerman and raised her right hand.

She stumbled a bit over the flowery, antiquated language of her oath to
"absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any
foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty." She signed her photograph on
the citizenship certificate, and Pennerman presented her with the obligatory
small American flag to wave. It was all over in two minutes. Hugs all around.

"God bless America," Hagan said. "I waited so long, seven years."

She now has something that most other Americans do not: a signed document of
citizenship, complete with the gold embossed eagle and official seal of the U.S.
government.

Except for the big smile on her face and the big sigh she heaved when it was
done, it could have been an anticlimactic moment, given the herculean effort it
took to get Hagan to that point.

Hagan's mother, Yvonne, was Canadian; her father, Walter, was an American. When
Hagan, born in Toronto, first set foot in the United States at age 13 months,
she arrived under her mother's passport. Her father never filed any documents to
prove that he had lived in the United States for at least 10 years before
Hagan's birth, a requirement in those days for her to become a citizen.

Hagan lived her whole life in the United States, raised a family, was issued a
Social Security card and voted for 40 years, all the while with no inkling that
she was a woman without a country. But in 1998, after her husband died, she
tried to cash a $255 survivor's benefit check and was informed that she did not
exist as a U.S. citizen.

Her legal file reads like the rough draft for a stranger-than-fiction
autobiography. During World War II, her father joined the Norwegian Air Force at
a base in Canada.

Both her father and grandfather worked at the Pennsylvania farm of the
celebrated Broadway lyricist Oscar Hammerstein II, who mentioned them both in
his biography and in personal letters.

Both her grandparents were physiotherapists, working out aches and pains of
Hammerstein and his wife, Dorothy. Stephen Sondheim lived on a farm nearby.

Hagan's grandfather, Peter Moen, even tried to correct a verse from June Is
Busting Out All Over in Hammerstein's musical Carousel. He chided Hammerstein
for suggesting that sheep mate in the spring, when they actually mate in the
winter. But the great lyricist overruled him, pleading poetic license.

Now that she's legit, Citizen Hagan has plans. First, to sign up for
unemployment benefits. Last month, she lost her job as a Bank of America
employee and was not able to file for benefits while her status was in limbo.

She is also thinking about becoming more active in politics, possibly helping
others in her situation.

"Nobody has a case like yours," interjected her attorney, Mike Bander.

In his office across from the immigration office, Bander gave her the number of
a nearby passport office. She'll need it soon. To celebrate her official
citizenship and her approaching 63rd birthday, Hagan's kids are planning to send
her on a cruise to the Bahamas.

lona_oconnor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Marie Hagan (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              215 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 14, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWING SHARE OF U.S.' UNINSURED FOREIGN-BORN

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants made up one-quarter of Americans who lacked health insurance in 2003,
up from one-fifth a decade earlier, the nonpartisan Employee Benefit Research
Institute reported Monday.

Among all immigrants, 11.6 million, or 38 percent, lacked health insurance. But
the proportion varied greatly depending on whether the immigrants were
naturalized citizens or noncitizens and by how long they had lived in the United
States.

Noncitizens were more than twice as likely as naturalized citizens to be
uninsured, and those who arrived since 2000 were more than twice as likely to be
uninsured as those who arrived before 1970. The report did not make a
distinction between immigrants who entered the country legally or illegally.

Among the entire U.S. population under age 65, the number of uninsured has
increased from 36.5 million in 1994, or 15.9 percent, to 44.7 million in 2003,
or 17.7 percent.

The report also found that more than 60 percent of immigrants without insurance
reside in the four largest states: California, 27 percent; Texas, 15 percent;
New York, 10 percent; and Florida, 9 percent. In Florida, that 9 percent equals
about 1 million people.

Paul Fronstin, director of health research programs at the institute and author
of the report, said there are several reasons that more immigrants lack health
insurance:

- Federal eligibility: The 1996 welfare reform bill reduced access of newly
arrived immigrants to some programs, including Medicaid, the federal-state
health insurance program for the poor.

- Cost: Health insurance premiums have risen steeply since the late 1990s.

- Age: Immigrants tend to be young, and young people generally have less health
insurance than older people.

- Occupation: Immigrants tend to take low-wage jobs in agriculture, the service
sector or small businesses, which generally do not provide health coverage.

- Culture: Many immigrants come from countries that do not have a tradition of
health insurance, so they may not realize they need coverage until after they
require medical assistance.

Jennifer Ng'andu, health policy analyst for the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's largest Hispanic organization, said the report points out the need to
revise federal laws to make it easier for immigrants to receive government
assistance. And she said it shows the need for health care reforms to make it
easier for employers to offer coverage.

larryl@coxnews.com

Immigrants most likely to lack insurance
Immigration status                      Percentage uninsured
Foreign-born noncitizen                                 47.1
Citizen by naturalization                               21.2
Native children of foreign-born parents                 17.8
Native-born                                             14.7

Note: U.S. population younger than 65 in 2003

Source: Employee Benefit Research Institute

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              216 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 16, 2005 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

3 GANG MEMBERS ARRESTED, FACE DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 290 words


Three members of the violent Central American-based MS-13 gang were arrested
Wednesday in pre-dawn raids in the Lake Worth area and are now awaiting
deportation.

Miguel Pedro Gaspar, 22, a Guatemalan citizen, was arrested in his Lake Worth
home, according to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Two brothers who are Mexican citizens - Efer Jonathan Roblero Aguilar, 24, and
Carlos Hernan Roblero Aguilar, 21, - also were arrested at their home in
suburban Lake Worth.

None of the three resisted when they were seized by immigration agents with the
help of Lake Worth police and Palm Beach County sheriff's deputies. All were
taken to Krome Detention Center south of Miami.

Gaspar was ordered to be deported in January after he was charged with
aggravated battery, assault on a firefighter and shoplifting.

The two brothers, who are apparent newcomers to the gang, are in the country
illegally, said Nina Pruneda, immigration spokeswoman.

The arrests were part of Operation Community Shield, a national gang crackdown
the immigration service launched in March. Nationwide, it has netted 300 members
of the MS-13, also known as Mara Salvatrucha.

The gang, which is active in Ecuador, Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico, is known
to be particularly violent and have access to sophisticated military weapons. In
recent years, members have been crossing the Mexican border in record numbers.

This month, Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., targeted the gang when he announced he
planned to beef up immigration laws to make it a crime, punishable by 10 years
in prison, to help a gang member enter the country.

"MS-13 is one of the largest and most violent street gangs," he said while
visiting Tegucigalpa, the capital of Honduras.

- jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              217 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 20, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAMILY MYSTIFIED BY TEEN'S HANGING

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA DeNARDO, ROBERT P. KING and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post
Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


About a week before Susana Mateo Jose was found hanging from a tree in her back
yard, her mother said she told her something chilling:

"One of us is going to die soon."

Jose's mother, Ana Miguel, prodded her 18-year-old daughter about why she made
such a statement. Her daughter never said why.

On Friday afternoon, Jose was caring for her siblings while her parents were at
work, the family said. When the children got hungry they went looking for her.
Five-year-old Jesus found her hanging from the tree.

Jose had spent two months trying to get to Florida, and her parents paid
smugglers thousands of dollars to ensure she would arrive safely. Jose crossed
dangerous borders in Mexico on foot, crammed into a Chevrolet Suburban filled
with other immigrants and endured a botched kidnapping attempt after her
smugglers refused to release her to her parents.

Despite her ordeal, Jose's parents said she never seemed distraught or
depressed. They have no idea why their daughter would want to kill herself.

"She seemed so happy the rest of the time," Miguel said. "She wanted to go back
to school. . . . That was the plan."

Boynton Police are investigating Jose's death as a suicide but released no new
details Sunday.

Jose's immigration status was under review by the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. A spokeswoman for the agency said Jose was to face an
immigration judge in August.

Jose's father, Mateo Jose, said the family was optimistic their daughter could
have remained in the United States. He and his wife are legal residents, as are
his other children. "I was fighting for her," he said.

Mateo Jose said he last saw his daughter Friday morning. He and his wife, who
are landscapers, went to work about 8 a.m. They left three children at home with
Jose, said Ana Cuba, a family friend and neighbor. When the couple returned
about 10 a.m., Jose told her teenage brother to go help their parents at work,
leaving her with two younger siblings.

Before leaving for work again, Mateo Jose asked his daughter how she was doing.

"I'm all right, Poppy," he recalled her saying.

A few hours later, the couple received a phone call from their children telling
them she was dead, said Cuba, who talked to Ana Miguel over the weekend.

Jose's death has caused a widespread "sense of suffering" among other
Guatemalans in Palm Beach County, said Sister Rachel Sena, a Catholic nun who
runs the Maya Ministry of the Diocese of Palm Beach.

"My initial take is that this is a story of a young girl who saw no hope,"
Sister Rachel said. "It just says that we were not there for her. . . . It's the
suffering of a whole community."

She said the woman's family was widely known in the Maya community, and that
Jose took part in a Bible study group sponsored by Sacred Heart Catholic Church
in Lake Worth.

But the uncertainty of her immigration status must have been overwhelming,
Sister Rachel said.

"We are delicate, fragile human beings," she said. "And when you are a stranger
in a land that's not your own, it is most especially fragile."

Jose's odyssey to Florida began in February, after her parents offered to pay
smugglers for her safe arrival here. She spent a month traveling.

In March, she reached a Kmart parking lot in Lantana, where her family was
waiting to pick her up. When her father was unable to pay the entire balance to
secure his daughter's freedom, smugglers Regino Sanchez and Ricardo Jose
Contreras sped away. After a six-hour search, they were arrested on Interstate
95 in Palm Beach Gardens. Earlier this month, they pleaded guilty in federal
court to human smuggling charges and face up to 20 years in prison.

Though police are still awaiting autopsy results, the Guatemalan government said
it will pay to send Jose's body back to her native country, said Ana Maria de
Monteagudo, Guatemala's consul general in Miami, who met briefly with the family
Sunday. She said Rigoberta Menchu, a Guatemalan Indian activist who visited Palm
Beach County on Sunday, also met with the family.

De Monteagudo said her government wants to know more about how Guatemalan Mayas
are treated in Florida, including migrant workers.

christina_denardo@pbpost.com

bob_king@pbpost.com

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. Susana Mateo Jose: Spent two months trying to make her way to Florida. (mug)
2. RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer Ana Miguel lights a candle Sunday beneath
the tree where her daughter was found hanged two days earlier.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              218 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAW AGENCIES MEET TO COMBAT INTERNATIONAL GANGS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


The Central American-based gang known as MS-13 is a group of murderous,
kidnapping violent criminals, said U.S. Rep. Mark Foley on Friday. And they're
in South Florida.

Last month's arrest of three MS-13 gang members in Lake Worth spurred lawmakers
and law enforcement to hold a mini-summit on tackling gang activity that has
been sprouting up from Port St. Lucie to Palm Beach County.

Federal and local authorities met at the Jupiter campus of Florida Atlantic
University to discuss the presence of international gangs and how interagency
cooperation could lead to more arrests.

"The one thing these gangs fear is the federal government," said Foley, a
Republican from Jupiter.

Since February, about 445 suspected gang members have been arrested under the
Operation Community Shield program launched this year by the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement branch of the Department of Homeland Security.

Of those arrests, about 75 percent are awaiting immigration deportation
proceedings while the other 25 percent face charges for federal crimes.

Investigators are particularly alarmed by groups like the Salvadoran MS-13 gang,
also known as Mara Salvatrucha, and the Mexican M-18 gang, also called The 18th
Street gang. Both gangs were founded in Los Angeles and are often identified by
their graffiti markings.

A federal database allows state and local agencies to make background checks for
gang affiliations on a criminal suspect that can be made during the course of a
traffic stop.

"Local enforcement on the street is the best tool," said John Torres, a deputy
assistant director for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

In the Lake Worth incident, immigration agents arrested Miguel Pedro Gaspar, a
22-year-old Guatemalan, and two Mexicans, 21 and 24, for having ties to MS-13.
The arrests stemmed from a criminal investigation that charged Gaspar with
aggravated battery, assault on a firefighter and shoplifting.

Local law enforcement agencies have found the Operation Community Shield program
to be useful tool in identifying suspected gang members in smaller areas such as
Jupiter. The town's police chief believes gangs are more of a "nuisance" than a
threat but has up to six officers on the force assigned to gang activity, as a
precaution.

"We have signs of gang activity," said interim Police Chief Robert O'Neill. "We
don't want it to take root in our community."

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer U.S. Rep. Mark Foley is among federal and
local authorities who met Friday at Florida Atlantic University's Jupiter campus
to discuss how agencies can cooperate to make more arrests aimed at tackling
gang activity.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              219 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 25, 2005 Monday
                                WEB SENT EDITION

READING PROGRAM AIMS TO KEEP IMMIGRANT STUDENTS' SKILLS FRESH

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA DeNARDO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 545 words


They call it the summer time backslide.

After school lets out, many students prefer to pick up anything but a book.
Teachers say all students are vulnerable to the slide, but for immigrant
students, the slide can be even more acute.

With few summer school opportunities for students in Palm Beach County, graduate
students from Florida Atlantic University teamed up with struggling third-,
fourth- and fifth-graders at Belvedere Elementary School in West Palm Beach to
keep reading fresh in their minds.

Choosing stories whose characters look and act like them and their families - an
immigrant family's visit to Mexico, Cesar Chavez's fight for migrant workers in
California, the diverse riders on the subway - teachers hope to spark discussion
and a greater interest in reading.

The three-week program takes about 60 economically disadvantaged students and
matches them with tutors who are seeking graduate degrees in reading education
at FAU's College of Education. The program is financed by the Mary and Robert
Pew Public Education Fund.

"A lot of these kids are from Mexico, so we choose stories they can relate to,
and that is half the battle," said Elissa Armstrong, a masters student and
teacher at a charter school in Broward County.

The other half is getting students to understand the point of the story.
Students whose first language isn't English often struggle more to learn
higher-level vocabulary words because they didn't grown up hearing their parents
talk or read stories in English.

The program sort of operates like a book club, or literature circle, and every
child has a role. There's the questioner. The word wizards who pick out
difficult and interesting words. The passage pickers share the parts of the
story they like the best. The summarizers explain the main idea. And the
connectors talk about how the story relates to something they know. Students
write down their thoughts on little Post-it notes.

The whole point is discussion, said Philomena Marinaccio, an FAU teaching
professor who helped FAU obtain the grant. In large classes, many of these
children don't talk because they're afraid to ask questions or they don't
understand. The roles give students a reason to participate.

In the corner of the classroom, Beverly Vanegas, an articulate 10-year-old who
reads many books on her own, can't pronounce j-o-y-o-u-s.

"Can you help me out?" she asks her partner. Beverly, who came to Florida from
Nicaragua in kindergarten, says she needs help with vocabulary, but she's
learned a lot of new words this summer.

"We write it down and discuss it and that's how I understand it," she said.

Ten-year-old Paul Santiago didn't read much last year. As he flipped through a
Marvel comic book in the Barnes & Noble bookstore - part of the program's field
trip - he talked about all the books he's read this summer and the importance of
reading. You can't get a job if you can't read the application, he points out.

Rodrigo Fernandez, whose family immigrated to Florida when he was just learning
to read, makes a picture in his head of what's happening in the story.

When Maritza Vicente read Harvesting Hope, she told her teacher, Lynn
Saffer-Domino, it reminded her of Martin Luther King Jr.

"That is what we want," Domino said.

- christina_denardo@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer Julia Rotondi, 12, (from left) and Cynthia
Ramirez, 11, listen to questions about The Story of Cesar Chavez posed by FAU
masters student Stacey Rothstein at Belvedere Elementary School in West Palm
Beach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              220 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DAY-LABOR MODEL: JUPITER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 284 words


Cities trying to deal with rising numbers of day laborers seeking employers on
street corners will learn what works and what doesn't from Jupiter and Lake
Worth.

In Jupiter, town officials are collaborating with business owners and immigrant
groups on plans to open a Neighborhood Resource Center in September.

It will provide a place for employers to hire and to help clear the crowds of
laborers who gather on Center Street most mornings. Two not-for-profit groups,
Corn Maya and Catholic Charities, will run the center and also offer social
services such as legal aid referrals, English classes and Head Start programs.
The town has made a deal to buy the LifeSong Community Church as part of a town
hall expansion, and part of the facility will house the center.

If Jupiter's plan is progressive, Lake Worth's is haphazard. Complaints this
year about laborers congregating at downtown intersections prompted police to
post signs threatening employers with fines for hiring undocumented immigrants.
The new plan is to direct workers and employers to meet each other at the city's
shuffleboard courts. But the courts area is too small to handle up to 300
laborers who line Lake Avenue on some days. Not many of them are showing up
there anyway. Mayor Marc Drautz says that while the city is looking for a better
solution, it will post signs telling workers where they should go.

While both cities acknowledge that day workers contribute to the local economy
and are essential to many businesses, Jupiter has been willing to make an
investment; Lake Worth has not. Jupiter soon will have a center and clear
streets while Lake Worth will have more signs. Cities in South Florida will be
studying the contrast.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              221 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 7, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER FORGES TIE WITH GUATEMALANS' HOMETOWN

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


The growing presence of an immigrant population was recognized in a most
significant act Saturday as town officials and several Guatemalan dignitaries
entered into a sister-city agreement.

Jupiter Mayor Karen Golonka and Mayor Moises Perez of Jacaltenango, Guatemala,
signed the proclamation at St. Peter's Catholic Church before hundreds of town
residents of Guatemalan descent. Jorge Briz Abularach, minister of foreign
relations for Guatemala, was also in attendance.

Three years ago, local advocates for the Guatemalan community began to seek out
developing a sister-city agreement. Golonka acknowledged the moment as a turning
point in the relationship with the town's newest residents.

"I hope this agreement will promote a better understanding between the cultures
and the towns," Golonka said. "I hope it will also bring down barriers."

Most of the town's Guatemalan residents are from Jacaltenango.

The symbolic gesture is intended to promote cultural exchanges, with officials
planning to visit one another's towns. The local not-for-profit organization
Corn Maya Inc. also expects to host exhibits by some of Jacaltenango's artists.
And St. Peter's officials are scheduled to visit Jacaltenango's Our Lady of
Candelaria in February.

The agreement is the latest attempt to bring together town residents with the
Guatemalan immigrants who have settled recently in the north county suburban
town to work as day laborers.

By October, the first day-labor hiring center should open. The Neighborhood
Resource Center is intended to clear neighborhoods crowded by day laborers who
stand along residential streets seeking work.

Florida has the nation's third-highest Guatemalan immigrant population behind
New York and California. An exodus from the Central American country began in
the 1970s during a civil war and continued in recent years because of a failing
coffee industry.

Perez, Jacaltenango's mayor, was thankful for the town's cooperation.

"This is a vital act for our prosperity," he said. "We have a right to
progress."

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) & MAP (B&W)
 1. Photo by STEVE MITCHELL Moises Perez, mayor of Jacaltenango, Guatemala, and
Jupiter Mayor Karen Golonka sign a sister-city proclamation Saturday in Jupiter.
2. STAFF GRAPHIC Area of Jacaltenango.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              222 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 14, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO REFUGE FOR THIS YOUNG REFUGEE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 743 words


Ana Miguel Matias and Mateo Pedro Jose fled Guatemala in 1986 and walked across
the desert into the United States to escape a civil war that was killing Mayan
peasants by the thousands.

They left behind their 8-month-old daughter, Susana Jose Matias, because they
believed she would not survive the crossing.

Ana and Mateo Jose found their way to Immokalee and then to Palm Beach County,
where they lived the lives of migrant workers. They settled in Boynton Beach and
started a landscaping business. They paid taxes and raised eight children, all
U.S. citizens by birth.

Two years ago, Ana and Mateo Jose obtained legal permanent residency through a
law passed during the Clinton administration that gave asylum to Central
American refugees. The government felt culpable because the 36-year civil war in
Guatemala was fueled by U.S. support of a repressive regime and covert action of
CIA operatives. More than 200,000 Mayans died in the fighting and the genocide.
President Clinton called it a mistake.

Susana Jose lived with her aunt and uncle in Guatemala. Her mother and father
sent them money from Florida so Susana, who spoke the Mayan language called
Kanjobal, could go to a Mormon school and learn Spanish. When her uncle died
three years ago, Susana called her parents and told them she wanted to come to
the United States and join the family.

In January, Ana and Mateo Jose had put together the money needed to hire
smugglers, "coyotes," to bring the daughter left behind into the country. There
was no legal way for her to come because the deadline in the asylum law had
expired.

The plan collapsed in terrible ways. By June, two coyotes had pleaded guilty to
federal charges of transporting illegal aliens. Ana and Mateo Jose were living
in fear of smugglers' reprisals, but worse, they were grieving the death of
their daughter. Exactly how and why things went so wrong never will be fully
understood.

According to an affidavit submitted to federal prosecutors, the parents say they
wired money through Western Union to the smugglers in Mexico, who led Susana
through the desert into Arizona and then drove her to Florida. Mateo Jose was to
meet them in the parking lot of the Lantana Kmart. When he did, the men said
they hadn't received all the $2,500 they were owed, demanded more money, then
sped off with the girl.

Susana's sister Angelina called 911, and police quickly apprehended the two
coyotes - Ricardo Contreras and Regino Sanchez. They are scheduled to be
sentenced in Miami on Wednesday and face up to 10 years in prison, though it's
more likely they'll be out in three years.

Federal officials heralded the quick resolution as a victory for the government
against human trafficking. But it is a hollow victory that demonstrates again
the system's ignorance of the people it's dealing with, particularly the Mayan
refugees.

Neither federal investigators nor police used a translator to question the
parents in Kanjobal. They were interviewed in Spanish, which they don't speak
fluently. Some federal officials involved in the case were surprised to learn
the family was Mayan, and some confessed to knowing nothing about Mayans.

Ana and Mateo Jose say they received "terrifying" phone calls from relatives of
the coyotes. They moved the family out of their home at night, fearing
retribution. Someone vandalized their house. Neither the government nor police
gave them protection. They had no value as witnesses after the guilty pleas, and
it was easy to dismiss them as illegal immigrants, which they were not.

Susana Jose might have received victims' services, if prosecutors needed her
testimony. But they didn't. If the government saw the 18-year-old as a victim,
she might have received protection and counseling. But the government dismissed
her as another illegal immigrant in another smuggling deal gone wrong.

The parents say the phone calls, threats and intimidation took a toll on Susana
Jose. She feared for her life. On June 17, a week after the pleas, she fed her
young brothers and sisters and did the laundry.

Then she went into the back yard, made a crude noose from a piece of rope and
hanged herself from the limb of a mango tree. The medical examiner ruled her a
victim of suicide, but she really was another victim of the civil war Americans
know nothing about.

Her parents were right that she would not survive the crossing.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              223 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION EXPERTS, BY DEFAULT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 726 words


Herndon is a lovely town of about 22,000 people, in the northwest corner of
Fairfax County, Va. It is about 20 miles from Washington and, as you would
expect, is home to many federal government employees.

After months of study and contentious debate, the town council made a landmark
decision last week. Several of the council members called it the hardest vote in
their careers as public servants, according to The Washington Post.

They complained of intimidation, unfair criticism and assorted acts of strategic
ugliness, much of it coming from persons and places far away from Herndon. What
started as a traffic problem outside a 7-Eleven escalated into a national story
- actually, an international story.

By a 5-2 vote, council members approved spending $175,000 of taxpayers' money to
open a hiring site where day laborers seeking jobs can find employers. The
facility will be run by a local not-for-profit social-services agency, Project
Hope and Harmony, and will serve many illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central
America.

Of course, that's what triggered the ugliness. Activists on both sides of the
immigration reform issue took notice and put Herndon in their political cross
hairs. Immigrant advocates hailed the decision as a progressive move to deal
honestly with practical realities, both economic and social. Anti-immigrant
groups are threatening lawsuits to challenge spending public money to underwrite
illegal activity. Council members have voted, but they haven't settled things.

The debate raging in Herndon is indistinguishable from those going on in Jupiter
and Lake Worth, two cities groping for solutions to deal with large populations
of illegal immigrant workers who gather on street corners looking for jobs.

Jupiter wants to open a day-labor center in the former LifeSong Community Church
complex near the town hall. The town plans to lease a portion of the complex to
Catholic Charities, which will run the center with Corn Maya Inc., a
not-for-profit outreach group. As in Herndon, opponents are threatening
lawsuits.

Lake Worth officials have no plan, but they do have signs and shuffleboard. The
city has posted notices to tell workers where they can congregate. The idea has
been to direct them to the city's shuffleboard courts and off the downtown's
busy intersections. You know how Mexicans and Guatemalans love shuffleboard,
right? Nothing like a little cue action while you're waiting for a job
interview. There's probably no need to report that Lake Worth's idea is going
nowhere.

It would be a privilege to report that other cities have come up with great
solutions that satisfy all parties, but that hasn't happened and won't. What is
striking, however, is how pervasive the problem has become as the federal
government's failure to enact meaningful immigration reforms shows itself on so
many very different street corners.

In Cicero, Ill., police have cracked down and charged immigrants with
trespassing while soliciting work in a Home Depot parking lot. In Las Vegas,
immigrant workers march the pavement each day outside plant nurseries and
hardware stores. In Houston, officials are considering spending $600,000 to open
labor centers in each quadrant of the city. In Fremont, Ohio, pickle farmers put
out a desperate call for cucumber pickers. A shortage of migrant workers
threatens to ruin this year's crop. In Laguna Beach, Calif., demonstrations
between groups of activists outside a center almost came to blows last month.

Any of these places most mornings could pass for Jupiter or Lake Worth. In each
case, local governments are forced to take on a role they don't deserve. It
isn't Cicero's duty to control the U.S.-Mexico border. It isn't up to Laguna
Beach to issue visas and develop a guest-worker program. Heaven forbid Las Vegas
should decide who enters the country and who doesn't.

Last week, the governors of Arizona and New Mexico declared states of emergency
because of illegal migration across their borders. Because of the absence of
political courage in Washington, immigration reform is left to those governments
least able to confront it.

This is especially galling in Herndon, where, only a half-hour away, the people
who are supposed to repair a failed and hypocritical policy do nothing.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              224 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 25, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 328 words


Federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportation officers arrested a
suburban Delray Beach man Wednesday and plan to deport him to his native Iran.
Valod Atini, 53, has been convicted of possession of a controlled substance,
larceny and drunken driving during his stay in the United States. He has been a
lawful permanent resident since 1978. In 1989, he failed to appear before an
immigration judge who ordered him deported. His subsequent appeal was dismissed
in 1991. He has been a fugitive since. The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
helped in the arrest. Atini will be held at the Krome Detention Center west of
Miami until his deportation.

LANTANA - A man and woman were arrested this week on charges of armed bank
robbery after a police officer saw the man leaving a Washington Mutual bank
Monday moments after a hold-up alarm was triggered, according to an arrest
report. Christopher Caldwell, 25, of Lantana was seen fleeing the Washington
Mutual at 1300 W. Lantana Road and was chased by officers, police say. He was
later caught and confessed to robbing the bank Monday and once last year, the
report stated. Authorities also charged Grisselle Morales, 30, of

Wellington with being an accomplice in the June 2004 heist. Both were arrested
this week and booked into the Palm Beach County Jail.

RIVIERA BEACH - Police arrested an 18-year-old city man in connection with a
shooting at a convenience store Wednesday night. Eric Daniels was arrested and
charged with aggravated battery with a firearm. The victim, Johnny Williams, was
shot once in the left ankle by a small-caliber semiautomatic handgun while he
was standing at the Jiffy Food Market at 13th Street and Avenue T about 7:30
p.m. Wednesday, according to police. The shooter ran south, hopping over a fence
and was picked up in a gray Mercury four door. Anyone with information about
this crime can contact Detective Sgt. Pat Galligan at (561) 882-3514 or Crime
Stoppers at (800) 458-TIPS (8477).

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Valod Atini (mug)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              225 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 27, 2005 Saturday
                                  WEST EDITION

MAN'S QUEST FOR CITIZENSHIP TO TAKE A LITTLE LONGER

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: WELLINGTON


Since arriving at Ellis Island as an 8 1/2-year-old, Jewish Hungarian immigrant
escaping Hitler's concentration camps in 1940, Ivan Oszkar Frieder's American
journey has been eventful, to say the least.

Frieder, 73, learned English reading comic books, played baseball, won good
citizenship awards, fought in the Korean War, earned a Purple Heart and
earnestly followed American politics.

And Friday, he was to do the one thing that had escaped him since arriving in
America 65 years ago: become a U.S. citizen.

"I waited 65 years, and I was preempted by a hurricane," Frieder joked to the
four generations of family gathered at his daughter's Wellington home Friday.

Hurricane Katrina put a damper on the party plans and closed government offices
and buildings in Miami, including the convention center, where Frieder and
possibly thousands of others were to take their citizenship oath on Friday.

"As a fatalist," Frieder began, "I said, 'What's one more year?' I waited this
long."

Frieder lived the life of an everyday American for 52 years. He was a salesman
of medical and dental cameras with Lester A. Dine for five decades. He solved
The New York Times crossword puzzle each Sunday with his daughter, Joy Chiet. He
is a liberal whose favorite president was Richard Nixon (he admired his foreign
policy).

And he survived cancer - twice.

Yet, Frieder was not an American, legally. When his Czech-Hungarian mother
became a naturalized citizen about 57 years ago, his family thought for nearly
half a century that Frieder and his younger brother had automatically received
their citizenship.

They were half correct.

While his younger brother did automatically become a citizen, Frieder was 16
years old and had to apply separately, Chiet said. That was something he did not
know until 1992, when preparing to go overseas to a dental convention in Brazil.

"It was ridiculous to him. Almost comical," Chiet recalls. "He was so American."

As a war hero, who was married for 35 years to his childhood sweetheart from the
Bronx, receiving his official citizenship papers should have been easy. It
wasn't.

For years, the Army could not find his enlistment papers. Bureaucratic boulders
met them at nearly every point. Letters to former President Clinton and later,
President Bush, went unanswered.

In his heart, Chiet said, Frieder knew he was an American; the papers were just
a formality. They later became a necessity after his daughter's 1997 trip to
Hungary. That sparked his interest to visit the distant and foreign homeland
he'd left behind.

In the last three years, he again pursued his citizenship and took the required
tests. In one instance, he had to write, in English, "It is a sunny day," which
he did before adding, "because this is Florida and that's the law here."

Thursday, Katrina broke the law. And the American flags and the patio bash
planned to welcome home U.S. citizen Ivan Frieder were put on hold.

"We did like everyone else," Frieder said. "We watched the Weather Channel and
kept our fingers crossed."

They were lucky. The only rumbling Friday in their village home was from their
pint-sized black Boston Terrier. Frieder never wanted all the attention anyway.

He's a modest man whose American journey is not over yet.

"It has become almost monumental," Frieder said of getting his citizenship
papers. "It would have been a nice touch And it will be."

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LIFE ON HOLD Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              226 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 27, 2005 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE ARREST 5 IN IMMIGRANT'S BEATING DEATH

BYLINE: By SOFIA SANTANA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Police arrested five teens Thursday night on murder and robbery charges after
they confessed to being involved in the slaying of Julio Reyes Paxtore, a
Guatemalan immigrant who was beaten to death during a robbery about a week ago.

Edward Harris, 16; Cordealria Collins, 17; Kinwend Taylor, 16; and Michael
Hicks, 16, are being held at the regional juvenile detention center in Fort
Pierce. The state attorney's office will decide whether they will be tried as
adults. The fifth suspect, Jerry Pierre, 19, remains in the St. Lucie County
jail without bond.

All of the teens, except for Hicks, lived blocks away from the Indiana Avenue
home where Paxtore, 32, lived with his brother. Hicks lived on Naylor Drive.

An anonymous tip Thursday afternoon led police to the young men.

The arrests bring a sense of relief to Paxtore's family, but they do nothing to
ease the pain, said one of his brothers, Carlos Humberto Paxtore.

"I'll still never see my brother again," he said. "Nothing can change that."

Julio Paxtore came to the city four months ago from a small town in Guatemala,
hoping to find a job in construction so he could send money to his wife, who
stayed in Guatemala with their two young daughters. Paxtore wanted his wife to
use the money to enroll their daughters in a good school and save the rest until
there was enough for him to return and build his family a house out of concrete,
so that they would no longer have to live in a shack, Paxtore's brothers said.

Those dreams ended suddenly on Aug. 19 when Paxtore was killed.

He was riding his red mountain bike near Okeechobee Road and South 27th Street
about 9:30 p.m. that night. He went to a gas station to buy a phone card so he
could call his wife. A group of teens chased him down. Collins told police he
pushed Paxtore off the bike, kicked him and then pedalled away while the other
four teens stayed behind to empty Paxtore's pockets of about $230 and beat him
until he was dead, according to a police report.

From a legal point of view, it doesn't matter which of the teens delivered the
fatal blows. Under Florida law, anyone involved in a felony where someone is
killed is liable for that death and can be charged with murder.

Police learned Thursday night that Paxtore was not the intended target, said
Audria Moore, police spokeswoman. The teens told police they were first chasing
another Hispanic man who got away, so they looked for a new target and spotted
Paxtore, Moore said.

It was unclear Friday what the teens did with Paxtore's bike or the money, but
Harris told investigators that moments after the robbery he asked Pierre for $1
of the stolen money so he could buy a soda, Moore said.

In Fort Pierce, Paxtore's death marks the second time this year that a Hispanic
man was killed during a robbery in which he was believed to have been targeted
because of his ethnicity. Robbers often target Hispanic immigrants knowing that
many of them carry large amounts of cash in their pockets because they either
don't trust banks or lack the proper identification to open a bank account.

Adan Beltran, 23, was killed in February during a robbery attempt behind the
Azteca Mexican Store on Angle Road. Five teens were arrested on murder charges
in that case and will be tried as adults.

These stories and others about Mexican and Guatemalan immigrants who come to
Fort Pierce with dreams of finding a job to support their families, only to be
sent home in coffins, are growing more familiar to the Hispanics who live here,
many of them have said.

Now, as a family in Guatemala plans a funeral and awaits the arrival of the
plane carrying Paxtore's body, his relatives in Fort Pierce hope to learn about
how the American justice system works so that when the time comes they can tell
a judge that they want the teens who killed their loved one to pay for the crime
with their lives.

"We want justice," Carlos Humberto Paxtore said. "We want these kids to get the
death penalty."

sofia_santana@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5 C & B&W)
 1. (C) Edward Harris (mug) 2. (C) Cordealria Collins (mug) 3. (C) Kinwend
Taylor (mug) 4. (C) Michael Hicks (mug) 5. (C) Jerry Pierre (mug) 6. (B&W) Julio
Reyes Paxtore (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              227 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WORK FOR BETTER JOBS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 400 words


Florida's unemployment rate fell to 3.8 percent in July, matching a 29-year low
and ranking well below the national jobless rate of 5 percent.

Workers who want work can find it in Florida, but most of them have to be
willing to work for low pay, forget about health insurance and worry about
staying alive. While the state has a large quantity of jobs, the quality of them
remains poor. Pay and benefits fall well below the national averages, and the
huge service, construction and agriculture industries still rely on minimum-wage
immigrant labor, much of it seasonal.

According to the U.S. Department of Labor, Florida ranks 47th in percentage of
residents with health coverage, 40th in the number of workers eligible for
unemployment benefits and 49th in pension coverage. The state trails only
California in the number of workers who died on the job last year, and the
number of employees without workers compensation insurance is shamefully high.

Immigrant laborers, most of them undocumented, satisfy Florida's needs for
menial labor and drag down wages and benefits overall. Immigrants often are
willing to do the most dangerous jobs without proper training and despite
language barriers, contributing to the state's high on-the-job accident rate.

Employers use foreign labor to keep costs down and give consumers lower prices,
but the savings are illusory and the bill gets passed on to the state's
taxpayers. Society pays to provide health care and social services for immigrant
workers and their children. Employers still don't pay their fair share for the
cheap labor that sustains them.

The state took a commendable step toward enhancing the quality of the workforce
by investing $310 million to bring The Scripps Research Institute to Palm Beach
County. The biotech industry over time should create high-paying jobs that will
help diversify the state's opportunities and reduce its reliance on tourism.
Palm Beach County needs the change. Though the county's unemployment rate was
down to 4.5 percent in July, the number of high-paying jobs actually has
decreased by 0.2 percent during the past two years. Continued investment in
education is essential to raise the standard of employment, particularly as
biotech takes root here.

While Florida ranks No. 1 in job growth among the 10 largest states, the jobs
it's growing fastest are still those that most Floridians don't want and won't
take.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              228 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW MORTGAGE RULES HELP OPEN DOORS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SUSAN R. MILLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 755 words


Like many immigrants, Pablo and his wife, Eudalis, work hard, pay taxes and
dream of owning a home.

Until recently, their dream would have remained just that. Home buyers
traditionally have needed a Social Security number to secure a home loan. Pablo,
a West Palm Beach pastor, and his wife are in this country on a temporary visa
and don't have Social Security numbers.

But home mortgage rules have started to change. Legal and illegal immigrants
from California to Miami increasingly are obtaining mortgages using their
taxpayer identification number, or ITIN, issued by the Internal Revenue Service.

The couple, who came to the U.S. four years ago from Venezuela, is obtaining a
loan using Pablo's ITIN and hope to close on it in a couple of months. Once they
are prequalified, they will start shopping for a home. They now live with four
children, ages 4 to 20, in a mobile home that last year was trashed by Hurricane
Frances.

"We think we deserve the right to homeownership as well as other decent,
taxpaying citizens who live in this country," said Pablo through a translator.
He asked that his last name not be used in this story.

Juan Carlos Astigarrabia is their loan counselor who is working with them
through ACORN Housing's downtown Miami office. ACORN is a nonprofit group that
helps low- and moderate-income people find homes.

"Lenders have realized this is an untapped market," said Lez Trujillo, national
field director for ACORN in Chicago.

Last September, ACORN began a pilot program in association with Citibank to
promote homeownership to low-income immigrants in Florida and six other states.
Through the end of July, the program closed on 281 loans, about one third of
them using ITINs.

The potential market for these loans is huge. Undocumented Latino immigrants
alone would add an estimated $44 billion in new mortgages to the housing economy
if permitted to purchase homes, according to a study released last October by
the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals. Many who have
tried to get loans in the past have fallen prey to predatory lenders offering
short-term loans with high interest rates, Trujillo said.

Still, there has been some hesitancy by potential home buyers to take advantage
of the ITIN loans, particularly among undocumented aliens who fear deportation.

"We tell them we don't have any contact with immigration. We are here to help
people," said Odalys Donate, regional director for ACORN in Miami, which has
just six clients using ITINs to secure a loan. "We think if you are here, and
you report your taxes and are hard working and honest, why not get the American
dream."

Larger banks also are hesitant to offer ITIN loans. Only about 2,000 have
originated nationally, according to Gary Acosta, co-founder of the National
Association of Real Estate Professionals. Many of them come from smaller
regional banks or through state-funded programs.

"People are trying to figure out the risks, how to differentiate the good ones
from the not-so-good ones," Acosta said.

With housing prices at an all time high, it's hard to predict whether more
people are going to be able to take advantage of the opportunity.

Other major lenders are looking at implementing similar programs and trying to
figure out if it will work for them, said Mike Zimmerman, vice president of
investor relations with Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corp. The private mortgage
insurer has been working with lenders whose home buyers don't have the required
20 percent down payment.

Wells Fargo is among those evaluating such a program, but "it's not something we
are doing right now," said Hillary A. John, assistant vice president of emerging
markets communications.

While there is no law against banks issuing mortgages to illegal immigrants, nor
against their owning property in the U.S., many argue there should be.

"Our position is that people who are in this country illegally should not be
getting assistance to buy homes here. It just doesn't make sense," said Ira
Mehlman, media director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"There is also the issue that this is an inherently risky population. They don't
have a long credit history and can be deported at any time."

The ACORN program requires immigrants live in the U.S. three or more years. They
also must pay taxes, provide proof of their income and that they have been
paying their rent, utilities and credit card bills.

"Most are hard-working, tax-paying people who are trying to establish a life
here," said Donate.

- susan_miller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Juan Carlos Astigarrabia (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              229 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FILM, DISCUSSION TO EXPLORE CONTRIBUTIONS OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By RON HAYES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 328 words


What if Californians woke up some morning to find that all the illegal
immigrants had disappeared?

That's the premise behind A Day Without a Mexican, a 2004 film that views the
economic and political implications of immigration with a comedic eye. One
morning, a pink fog settles over the state, and when it passes, 13 million
migrant workers have vanished. They're not all Mexicans, of course, but part of
the movie's conceit is that white Californians consider all Hispanics to be
Mexican.

The satire, which is rated R for language and brief nudity, will be shown free
Oct. 20 at 6:30 p.m. in the Duncan Theatre at Palm Beach Community College in
suburban Lake Worth, followed by a panel discussion.

Panel members will include:

- Nancy Perez, a Palm Beach County civil court judge and the daughter of migrant
workers.

- Monica Ramirez, an attorney with the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project.

- Timothy J. Steigenga, an associate professor at Florida Atlantic University
and a board member of Corn-Maya Inc.

The moderator will be PBCC Associate Professor E.J. Vega.

"We want to start a conversation about immigration reform and the contributions
that most immigrants make to the community," said Yael Keren, the associate
director of the Palm Beach County chapter of the American Jewish Committee, one
of the groups sponsoring the film and discussion.

Keren acknowledged that the panel represents a pro-immigration position but said
she expected questions that might be considered "anti-immigration" would come
from the audience.

"We didn't want to have the panel as a debate on immigration but a source of
awareness and education to the community at large," she said. "We're
pro-immigration."

In addition to the American Jewish Committee, the film is being sponsored by
Aspira of Palm Beach, the Glades Initiative, the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach
County and Palm Beach Community College.

For more information, call the Duncan Theatre at (561) 868-3315.

- ron_hayes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              230 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA CONSIDERS MIGRANT SITUATION

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 488 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Farmworkers in Florida may have lost as much as $50 million in wages due to
Hurricane Wilma, and a state commission on Monday began figuring out how to help
them.

The lost work is compounded by a housing shortage that was made even worse by
Wilma, and legislators openly wondered how much they can do without any change
in immigration and workers compensation laws at the federal level.

Until then, the members of the newly created Legislative Commission on Migrant
and Seasonal Labor appear focused on the housing shortfall and how they can make
long-term improvements in migrant conditions in Florida.

"This is a state and federal issue, and we just hope the federal government will
partner with us to do the right thing," said state Sen. Dave Aronberg,
D-Greenacres, a member of the commission who has visited hurricane-impacted
farmworker camps since Wilma tore through South Florida.

Aronberg was referring to several proposals going through Washington that could
help farmworkers with emergency financial assistance and would provide illegal
workers with a way to attain legal status, which would open them up for even
more assistance.

Until any of those measures pass, legislators said there are few options at the
state level.

"If you assist the illegals (immigrants), you're advocating them being here. You
are effectively saying, 'It's OK that you're here' when clearly they're not
documented and they shouldn't be here," said Rep. Baxter Troutman, R-Winter
Haven, vice chairman of the commission. "So I think the problem lies deeper."

One issue that garnered the interest of several legislators was either to expand
or make permanent a $10 million pilot project to build more improved housing for
farmworkers. The Florida Housing Finance Corp. is starting the project, which
would partner with grove owners to provide better and more affordable housing to
farmworkers.

Several advocates told the commission Monday that farmworker housing already was
decrepit before Wilma or the 2004 hurricane season - mostly old, dilapidated
mobile homes that are usually the first to fall during a hurricane or tropical
storm.

Rob Williams, director of the Farmworker Justice Program, said that of the
hundreds of farmworkers' homes destroyed during last year's four-storm season,
not one had been rebuilt for this year. And with this storm affecting up to
100,000 farmworkers, Williams said the total impact could reach $50 million in
lost wages.

Tirso Moreno, a general manager with the Farmworker Association of Florida, said
that shortfall has resulted in up to 20 farmworkers cramming into damaged mobile
homes while being afraid to ask for any kind of help.

"They don't have savings accounts to fall back on and wait for three months,"
said social services advocate Karen Woodall. "These people work from week to
week and get paid from week to week, so . . . state agencies and legislators can
help push things along."

- alan_gomez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HURRICANE WILMA DAMAGED CAMPS Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              231 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

CUBAN WOMAN WHO STOWED IN CRATE GETS U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Cuban woman who stowed away inside a wooden crate flown by a cargo plane from
the Bahamas to Miami will be allowed to stay permanently in the United States.

Sandra De los Santos received political asylum Monday, nearly 15 months after a
crew unloading the filing-cabinet sized DHL crate discovered her at Miami
International Airport.

"Now I really feel that I am firmly here, without fear," De los Santos, 25, said
after her hearing in Miami immigration court. "I am still nervous, but today I
consider myself touched with happiness."

De los Santos said she is studying English and hopes to become an ultrasound
technician.

Judge Rex Ford's decision cited the risk of persecution she would face if she
were returned to Cuba.

Her attorney, Willy Allen, had argued that the heavy media attention his client
received because of her unusual means of travel would make her an easy target
for political harassment if she were sent back.

"Her declarations appeared credible to the judge, who provided her the privilege
of asylum in this country," Allen said after the hearing, adding, "I emphasize
this word that many immigrants sometimes forget: privilege."

De los Santos, a former law student at the University of Havana, left the island
for Nassau in May, 2004. Three months later, she tucked herself into the DHL box
and remained in a fetal position for six hours, at times braving freezing
temperatures, until the box arrived at the airport.

Under the so-called wet-foot, dry-foot policy, Cubans who reach U.S. soil
usually are allowed to stay, while most picked up at sea are sent home.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              232 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SOLUTION AS EASY AS APPLE PIE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 239 words


The Post's editorial "Calm immigrant storm" (Nov. 4) addresses one facet of the
immigration problems that have reached crisis proportions in the United States
today. When is illegal legal? When we refer to aliens. Well, then, let's call
them "undocumented." Now, they're legal?

There are those who would distort, complicate and conspire to benefit from
others' misery, desperation and dreams. Of course, the employers of undocumented
aliens are the leading lobbyists against resolving a situation that has gone on
much too long. They are the slave traders who sneak aliens across our borders
for a fee, which can, in many cases, amount to death. "Come to the U.S. and
work. The streets are paved with gold. Free medical benefits and, if you're
pregnant, free obstetric services . . . and, to top it off, your baby becomes an
instant citizen."

Indeed, the streets of the U.S. are paved with gold. And legal citizens are
paying the tab. As in many complicated situations, the answers are sometimes
simple. Simply secure the borders, register anyone entering this country to work
and give them ID cards. Have them receive legal wages. Have them pay legal
taxes, and have them receive legal benefits. And they would be eligible to apply
for legal citizenship (just like in the old days). Finally, the exploiters of
this cheap labor practice must be punished severely for their crimes. Simple
solution. Problem solved.

JULES BERNSTEIN

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              233 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUSTOMS CHECK-IN KIOSKS TO BE TESTED IN MIAMI

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 4H

LENGTH: 600 words


A pilot program will get under way next spring that could change current U.S.
Customs and Immigration check-in procedures, which are so cumbersome and
time-consuming that many boaters have willingly broken the law rather than
comply.

Congressmen Mark Foley and Clay Shaw, responding to complaints about the tedious
task of check-in at the Port of Palm Beach and other inlets, came up with an
alternative idea - ATM-like kiosks at which travelers could come face-to-face
with Homeland Security officers through the wonder of video.

The plan, which was introduced to the U.S. House in March as a bill called the
Recreational Boaters Streamlined Inspection Act (HR 1509), is designed to
alleviate current requirements that force boaters returning from "foreign ports"
(usually the Bahamas) to leave their boat, rent a cab and schlep to Palm Beach
International Airport with all crew and passengers.

Boaters who return from the Bahamas on Sunday after the Department of Homeland
Security offices have closed are required to report, with all members of their
party, to immigration officials the following Monday. This loss of time at jobs
or in school has been deemed too inconvenient by many, perhaps as many as 70
percent, who simply don't follow the procedures.

This was cited by Foley before a U.S. House subcommittee in May, and his
statement also raised questions about the effectiveness of a border security
measure based on the honor system. "No vessel carrying illegal aliens or
contraband or terrorists will present themselves at an immigration office. . . .
This reporting requirement simply makes no sense."

The pilot program will place kiosks at the Port of Miami, for check-in of
boaters arriving there. Results of the program could determine whether that
reporting procedure will be implemented in Palm Beach County and the Treasure
Coast, said Jason Kello, who works in Foley's Washington office.

"Our goal is to make a case for the program in Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie
counties," said Kello, who said there is no timetable for evaluating the results
or bringing the bill up for a vote. "Legislation won't come forward until they
have seen the results of this pilot program."

The kiosks, as proposed by Foley and Shaw, would be located at each of 13 inlets
from Sebastian to Key West. A boater would present his documentation, and a
videophone system would allow immigration officers to see and interview the
boater remotely and examine his papers.

Customs check-in is already handled with a phone call, and if customs officials
wish to inspect the vessel, they may instruct the boater to wait until they
arrive.

The additional procedure of appearing before Homeland Security officers has been
in place since 2003, when several federal agencies merged in the wake of the
9/11 terrorist attacks. One such agency, the Department of Customs and Border
Protection, conducts the immigration check-in.

An electronic remote check-in system is already in place at some locations on
the Canadian border, Foley pointed out in his statement to the Subcommittee on
Economic Security, Infrastructure Protection and Cybersecurity. His statement
said the videophone reporting procedures for boaters using the Great Lakes and
St. Lawrence Seaway have had positive results.

Homeland Security interviews are conducted in the General Aviation office on the
property of Palm Beach International Airport and at a Border Protection office
at St. Lucie International Airport. The requirement for check-in allows the
traveler to report to any Department of Customs and Border Protection office
within 24 hours.

- Bill Bowen

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              234 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 5, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ENCLAVE ATTRACTS FAMILIES STARTING ANEW

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: GREENACRES


Big oak trees casting a canopy over the streets of Villa del Trio give the
working-class enclave a look of Old America. But its homes are largely occupied
by immigrants who are just putting down roots in America.

On one porch, a young Honduran in the county barely a year, reads an
English-Spanish dictionary in hopes of improving his chances of finding a better
job.

Next door, an older woman who would give her name only as Rosa says in Spanish
that she came from Honduras four years ago with her two sons to escape poverty
and despair. They were encouraged to come by a third son, who lives across the
street. He came 10 years ago and was the first in the family to settle in Villa
del Trio.

The small neighborhood reflects what immigration scholars call re-familization,
the reassembly of the family after the first immigrant settles in the United
States.

Villa del Trio, so named because most of its homes are triplexes, has families
from all over Latin America. Residents said the neighborhood of 252 homes on
three streets is 60 percent to 80 percent Hispanic, although in the mix are
American-born whites and African-Americans and at least one Hindu family.

The U.S. Census says from 1,300 to 1,500 Hispanics live in Villa del Trio and
surrounding neighborhoods.

"You can tell there is a lot of Latin influence in this neighborhood," said
Steven Restrepo, 18, who moved here from Colombia when he was 6. He steps to the
sidewalk to make his point.

"There's a Mexican family across the street; those on the other side are Puerto
Rican; a Guatemalan lives over there; they are from Haiti; and those down there
are from El Salvador," Restrepo says, pointing around the block.

"We got the League of Nations here," said Maria, a resident for 31 years. "But
it's one big happy family, and we're going to keep it that way."

At Greenacres Elementary School, less than a mile away, Principal Diane Conley
says about 65 percent of her 560 students are Hispanic. When she came 10 years
ago, many of her Hispanic students came from cities along the coast and already
knew some English; now more and more are coming with limited English
proficiency.

Conley said she's also noticed that family members of settled immigrants are
moving into the surrounding neighborhoods.

"A good share are now immigrants, and the family members are not
English-speaking," said Conley, whose school has two Spanish-speaking
translators and one Haitian Creole translator to assist parents.

Greenacres City Councilman Richard Radcliffe said the family reunifications are
reminiscent of those of earlier immigrants to this country.

"It's kind of the Old America when the parents came over, then the grandparents
and eventually everybody came over and assimilated," said Radcliffe, whose
district includes Villa del Trio. He said the neighborhood is popular with
immigrants because it's one of the last areas in the county with relatively
cheap housing.

"This is the place where people have always been able to get a start," Radcliffe
said.

Villa del Trio was started 31 years ago by condo-builder K. Hovnanian Cos.,
which sold the triplexes starting at $19,000 for the small center unit and
$29,000 for the larger units on the ends. A design quirk left the occupant of
the center unit with no way to get a lawnmower to the back yard except through
the front door.

When it began, all the homes were painted the same light-green color, but that
didn't last.

It began as a homeowner community, but now most of the units are rented, said
Bob Locke, who bought a unit in 1974 as a temporary place to live while he
worked on a three-year construction job. Locke stayed until he retired and has
no plans to leave the neighborhood.

Down the block, Jose Luis Rodriguez said he is enjoying sharing his street with
Hondurans, Mexicans and Guatemalans and the Puerto Rican guy who calls Rodriguez
"Cuba" because that's where he's from. Rodriguez moved here a little more than
year ago with his wife, Grenys, after living in Miami, which had too much Latin
influence, and Bradenton near Tampa, which had to little. The West Palm Beach
area has the right mix, he said.

"Here we don't interact very much with the neighbors, but when we do, they are
friendly," said Rodriguez, who left Cuba in 2000 after working as an independent
journalist in Havana. He said he studied photojournalism in Cuba but was
rejected for employment with state-run publications because he was not
considered a loyal communist. So, risking jail, he started reporting as a
freelancer and eventually was granted a visa to come to the United States.

"Here I can sense the freedom," said Rodriguez, who lives with his wife and
three children in a two-bedroom apartment. He has dreams of opening his own
photo studio and now takes photos of weddings and family events. But he also
works as a cross-country truck driver to earn money for his dream and to buy a
home for the family.

The Hispanic newcomers are drawn by housing prices, not cultural convenience.
There are no bodegas -

Latin grocery stores - and the ice cream truck that trolls the neighborhood
sells ice cream, not helados. As if transformed by the lack of cultural
identity, backyard fiestas are muted affairs, except for Mexican ranchera music
that occasionally spills over the fences from the next street, Restrepo said.

Another neighbor says most family events are celebrated at nearby parks, because
a large crowd with a barbecue grill big enough to roast a pig won't fit in most
back yards. And where would guests park? Villa del Trio is blessed with its oak
trees, sidewalks and underground electrical wires, but cursed by few parking
spaces for so many residents. Driveways dominate the lawn in front of the
triplexes, leaving little room for grass.

Villa del Trio homeowner Victor Osorio says his street has no Latin ambience
because people are too tired after a long day's work to do much socializing with
their neighbors.

"It's not like a Latin neighborhood where people get together all the time,"
said Osorio, who was born in Chile but has lived in this country for 21 years.
"This is a working-class neighborhood."

Another of Villa del Trio's longtime residents, who gave his name as Bob, said
the old-timers are feeling the change.

"The language," Bob said. "You can't understand what they are saying."

But one of Bob's Latin neighbors said the neighbors get along without a common
language. When Hurricane Wilma knocked out power on the street for several days,
some of the English-speaking residents brought water and ice to their
non-English-speaking neighbors, she said.

"Son bien (they are very) nice," said the Latin woman, speaking the new language
of the neighborhood.

- bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  A GROWING DIVERSITY Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & MAP (B&W)
 1. (C) ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer Steven Restrepo, 18, moved to Villa
del Trio from Colombia when he was 6. 'There is a lot of Latin influence in this
neighborhood,' he said. 2. (B&W) STEVE LOPEZ/Staff artist Location of Villa del
Trio.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              235 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 217 words


West Palm Beach police are searching for a missing 16-year-old girl last seen
Saturday. Eloida Lopez left the area with 22-year-old Bersain Ramirez, but
police don't know whether she went voluntarily. Lopez, who also uses the first
name Jessica, is 4-feet-10 and weighs 110 pounds. She has black hair, brown eyes
and a birthmark on her upper lip. She was last seen wearing blue jeans. Ramirez
is 5-feet-2 and weighs 130 pounds. He has black hair and brown eyes. Both are
natives of Guatemala. Ramirez, who also uses the first name Adolfo, may be
driving a white two-door 1988 Oldsmobile Cutlass Brougham with VIN number
1GW514W9JD333929. Anyone with information about their location should call West
Palm Beach police at (561) 822-1900.

About 22 illegal immigrants were captured Monday morning after their boat went
adrift in the Lake Worth Inlet, said Border Patrol spokesman Mike McClarnon.
Patrol agents responded to a call for help before 9 a.m. and later turned the
case over to the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Palm Beach County sheriff's spokesman Paul Miller said his
department assisted after early reports that a 35-foot boat had run out of gas
on its way to the coast. McClarnon could not provide the immigrants'
nationalities, ages or gender Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              236 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WAR CRIMINAL LAW'S USE LAX, PANEL ADVISED

BYLINE: By DAVID BARNES Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Lax investigations of suspected war criminals entering the country could be
undermining Rep. Mark Foley's year-old law allowing proven war criminals to be
deported, Justice and State department officials told a congressional panel
Thursday.

"Modern-day human rights violators have been able to gain entrance to this
country," said Eli Rosenbaum, director of the Justice Department Office of
Special Investigations.

Rosenbaum's office tracks down immigrants who engaged in torture or other human
rights abuses in their home countries and have since become naturalized American
citizens.

Foley, R-Jupiter, introduced legislation adopted last year that allows federal
officials to prosecute naturalized U.S. citizens for taking part in flagrant
human rights abuses overseas.

Rosenbaum said the law is the first to "expressly bar participants in foreign
government-sponsored extra-judicial killings and torture from entering or
remaining in this country and from obtaining citizenship."

Rep. John Culberson, R-Texas, and Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Va., said efforts by
immigration officials to keep up with the estimated 7 million visa applications
they receive each year has prevented them adequately screening foreign
torturers.

"It just scared me to death when I found out what's going on at the Houston
(Citizenship and Immigration Services) office, and it's going on nationally,"
Culberson said. "Customer service is coming before national security."

Rosenbaum said that because gathering needed evidence often involves
communicating with foreign archives centers, the process normally takes at least
six to eight years.

dbarnes@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mark Foley (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              237 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

20 HAITIANS RESCUED AT SEA OFF HOBE SOUND

BYLINE: By KEVIN DEUTSCH and ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 243 words


The Coast Guard rescued about 20 Haitian migrants who became stranded in the
ocean near Hobe Sound Thursday.

Authorities located the 27-foot boat shortly before 1 p.m., about three hours
after someone aboard made a desperate 911 call saying the group had been adrift
but were close enough to the coast that they could see the shoreline. The
caller, speaking to a dispatcher at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, said
the people aboard were sick and had no water.

"They were broken down out there in a regular boat," said Coast Guard Petty
Officer Ryan Doss.

Officials traced the cellphone call to an area of the ocean north of Lake Worth
based on cellphone towers that transmitted the signal. The sheriff's office and
Coast Guard searched that area with boats, helicopters and a jet.

A Coast Guard cutter found the stranded vessel 10 or 15 miles east of the Hobe
Sound area of Martin County and took all its occupants aboard. The Haitians will
remain on the ship until immigration officials decide where they should go, Doss
said.

The men, women and children were tired and dehydrated, but they appeared to be
OK, Doss said. Once aboard Coast Guard cutters, all immigrants receive food,
water and any needed medical care.

Determination of immigration status is made by the U.S. government in
coordination with Department of Homeland Security immigration officials. This
year the Coast Guard has rescued more than 1,7OO Haitian immigrants.

- kevin_deutsch@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              238 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 23, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSE ON IMMIGRATION: PANDERING, NOT REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 486 words


Samaritans who donate to farmworker charities, landlords who rent to foreigners
and parents who give migrant schoolkids a ride home may be promoting criminal
activity if the U.S. House gets its way on immigration "reform."

Last week, lawmakers passed a border protection bill that contained no rational
plan for dealing with the 11 million undocumented people already in the country.
The Republican leadership's solution is to make all of them felons. Under the
legislation, people living here illegally no longer would be in violation of
civil immigration law; they would be committing a federal crime.

The reach of the provision is insidiously uncertain. A foreign college student
who drops a class, a computer programmer who gets laid off - not to mention more
than 90 percent of the nation's farmworkers - are people whom House Republicans
want to call felons. So are about 2 million children. The bill also would
require all employers to use a database to verify Social Security numbers of
employees. In a letter to congressmen, the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association
says this would kill farming in the state "because Florida agriculture is so
heavily dependent upon aliens with fake documents to harvest our fruits and
vegetables." It was a remarkably candid assessment of the current system's
illegitimacy.

The nation has 7 million undocumented workers who fill jobs Americans don't
want. After they are put into databases, identified as felons, arrested and
deported, who would we get to do the work? The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, two groups with disparate agendas, are
united against criminalizing immigrants. In this case, economic and moral
principles reach the same conclusion.

The bill's border security provision calls for building five two-layer fences in
parts of California, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona on the U.S.-Mexican border.
The wall would cost perhaps $2 billion to build but cover only about 700 miles
of the 2,000-mile border. Migrants are sure to do what they've done in the past:
find other crossing routes.

Mexican President Vicente Fox called the wall "shameful" and correctly pointed
to the need for comprehensive reform, not political pandering. "A migratory
reform that only addresses security," he said, "will not resolve the bilateral
immigration problem." Mr. Fox's government is running radio ads urging Mexican
workers to denounce rights violations in the United States and offering to help
them defend themselves. U.S. employers should worry about that.

While government must tighten border controls for reasons of security, reform
has to acknowledge that illegal immigrants make irreplaceable contributions to
the country. President Bush and Senate leaders are proposing a guest worker
program that would bring them into a legal system with strict requirements and
attainable rewards. The House is offering hyperbole and irrationality.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              239 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WITH CUBA, 'POLICY' A MISNOMER

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 743 words


You don't need me to tell you that we're a nation of laws. But you might need me
to help explain some of them that deal with immigration.

Take the very complicated situation in the Florida Keys last week.

A homemade boat carrying 15 Cubans landed on one of the concrete pilings that
supports the abandoned Old Seven Mile Bridge, which runs parallel to the new
Seven Mile Bridge. Their boat was sinking, but the Cubans were jubilant because
they believed that they had reached the United States and asylum.

The U.S. policy on migrants from Cuba, as you recall, is something called "wet
foot, dry foot." Cubans who come into physical contact with U.S. soil are
allowed to stay; those who are caught at sea are sent back. So, it's extremely
important to get a foothold on dry land.

You might also recall the scene captured on live television seven years ago when
Cuban rafters desperately tried to make it to shore at Surfside in north
Miami-Dade. The U.S. Coast Guard shot water cannons and pepper spray to turn
them back. The most surreal moments came when one of the Cubans ran through the
surf and tried to fake out police like a halfback trying to cross the goal line.
Ricky Williams never ran for stakes so high.

But back to the Old Seven Mile Bridge. The 15 Cubans perched on the concrete
support figured they had 30 dry feet and were here to stay.

We are also a nation of technicalities. It turns out that the Coast Guard does
not consider the Old Seven Mile Bridge a bridge. A Coast Guard spokesman called
it "a misnomer."

No one knows if refugees from anywhere had ever tried coming here before by
landing on a misnomer. Government officials weren't even sure whether it was
possible to have dry feet on a misnomer. Let's face it: The Pilgrims landed on
Plymouth Rock, not Plymouth Misnomer.

You can imagine the predicament federal officials were in. They ultimately ruled
that concrete pilings under the misnomer would count as U.S. terra firma only if
they are connected to the mainland by a structural span, which this one wasn't.
These are details they don't tell you when you're building a boat out of scrap
materials in Mantanzas.

The government's position is that there are right pilings and wrong pilings and
the Cubans had landed on the latter. A nation that cared about giving oppressed
people safe haven would mark its pilings accordingly. Otherwise, it's like
asking rafters to play Monopoly on a blank board.

Had the boat drifted a little to the east or west, had the government labeled
its pilings, the Cubans would be lunching in Little Havana today. But we are a
nation of laws, so the government deported them back to Cuba.

Cuban-Americans lashed out at the Republican administration they had helped put
in power. The exile vote decided the close call that gave George Bush the
presidency in 2000. The thinking was that the administration owed the Cuban
community a whole bunch of close calls. What's a couple pilings between friends,
anyway?

The answer is that we are a nation of laws when we're not a nation of
self-serving politics. Mr. Bush is more worried about the immigration
hard-liners in Congress than the exiles in Florida.

The administration wanted to tell Cuban-Americans to count their blessings but,
of course, did not. Haitian rafters could have landed on any piling and been
deported the same day. A Mexican caught on a piling would be detained, vilified,
released, then given an awful job with terrible pay.

It might have been a different story if any of the Cubans were talented at
baseball. The government has shown extraordinary leniency and creativity to give
players asylum on humanitarian grounds (i.e., good fastball, slider and change).

But even baseball isn't the automatic-in that it used to be. Last month, the
Treasury Department announced that it would deny the Cuban national team
permission to compete in the World Baseball Classic, which will be held in
several states this March. In other years, the government would have seen the
event as a fine opportunity to recruit defectors for both leagues.

But the administration's rationale was that, back in Havana, Fidel Castro might
find some way to derive economic benefit from the team's appearance. That would
violate U.S. law.

You see, besides being a nation of laws, technicalities and self-serving
politics, when it comes to Cuba, we're a nation of fantasies, too.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              240 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 27, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LEGISLATORS PRESS JUSTICE TO LET HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS REMAIN

BYLINE: By ZACH AHMAD Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group of lawmakers pressed the Justice Department Wednesday to halt the forced
return of Haitian immigrants to their country.

In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez, 10 Democratic
representatives urged the federal government to grant Haitian citizens in the
United States temporary protected status on the grounds that conditions in their
homeland are unsafe. The congressmen include Reps. Robert Wexler, D-Delray
Beach, and Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar.

The letter cited frequent kidnappings and street violence surrounding Haiti's
planned national elections next month, calling it "unconscionable" for the
United States to return Haitian immigrants to a situation in which their home
government cannot guarantee their safety.

The representatives' letter comes on the heels of a coordinated effort that
began last week to urge immigration judges to issue a broad suspension of
deportation orders to Haiti. An estimated 20,000 undocumented Haitian immigrants
live in the United States.

zahmad@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              241 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN TEACHERS MAY GET CHANCE TO STAY FOR GOOD

BYLINE: By NIRVI SHAH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 541 words


Although they make up less than 1 percent of the school district's teaching
force, this group of educators is so valuable they are worth hiring a special
attorney who will help ensure they can stay here forever.

Over the past few years, the Palm Beach County School District has hired 71
teachers from around the world. The most recent search for teachers led to South
Korea, and teachers from that Asian nation will probably start working in the
fall. Other international recruits include 49 who hail from the Philippines,
seven from Mexico, six from Spain and one each from countries including the
Bahamas, China and Nigeria.

But if the school board approves the plan tonight, the district will start
offering its small but growing crop of foreign teaching recruits a chance for
permanent residency - a big incentive compared with the visas it offers now.
That visa limits how long immigrants can stay in the United States or prevents
their spouses from working.

"We don't want them going back," said Marcia Andrews, the district's human
resources director. "We'd love to hire all our people from the U.S., but they're
just not here."

The district hires foreigners only for particularly hard-to-fill teaching jobs:
math, science, special education and reading, for example. Most of them have
proven to be dedicated and hard-working, Andrews said, so the district wants to
keep them here. It will also be able to use them to help recruit other foreign
teachers.

Ernesto Lontoc, a native of the Philippines, has taught science at Boynton Beach
High for five years. His kids are enrolled at S.D. Spady Elementary. He's earned
his master's degree at Nova Southeastern University, and he's trying to become a
National Board Certified teacher. His school nominated him for a William T.
Dwyer Award for his work.

But with the visa he is using to work here, his wife can't work and he can't
work anywhere but for the school district - no part-time work at Palm Beach
Community College, for instance, and no summer jobs that aren't for the school
district.

"This plan will be very good news for my family," Lontoc said. "My wife will be
able to work."

Teachers would still arrive in the U.S. using visas, then work toward permanent
residency. If the board approves the measure, it would also provide for spending
$20,000 on an attorney who would handle the district's end of the permanent
residency paperwork with the federal government.

Hiring foreign teachers is almost a no-brainer, staffing specialist Bob Pinkos
said. The district initially went to foreign countries to recruit teachers. Now,
foreign governments pick up the tab or interviews are done on the phone. In many
cases, the teachers can't find jobs in their own countries because there aren't
enough, and a Palm Beach County starting salary might be 10 or 15 times more
than what they make at home. These teachers are willing to take jobs at schools
in the Glades or urban schools with low FCAT scores, Andrews said.

"Coming to the United States is a big carrot itself," Pinkos said.

Meanwhile, Andrews said, American universities are turning out an abundance of
teachers certified in areas the district doesn't need: elementary education,
physical education and social studies.

nirvi_shah@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              242 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

INDIANTOWN'S WHITE CAMP GIVES WAY

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ and JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


More than a dozen Mexican immigrants raced to pile mattresses, clothes and
everything else they owned into several pickup trucks Thursday afternoon under
the watchful eyes of a Martin County sheriff's deputy and a demolition crew.

Elaulia Mateo and her children threw trash bags full of whatever they could take
with them onto the dirt in front of their home while the tenants in another
house carried out mattresses, chairs and baseball bats.

Shortly after 5 p.m. the three families were evicted from what had been their
homes for the last 10 years, a row of small, dilapidated houses in what used to
be known as the White Camp on Allapattah Road.

The tenants and the pastor of the Indiantown church that has come to their aid
say the immigrants have paid rent on time for years and now they are homeless.

The Rev. Nestor Rodriguez of Holy Cross Catholic Church blames development,
saying the tenants are being pushed off the land to make room for new
subdivisions.

"They have no place to go," he said. "I think this is the first phase of
something that is going to keep happening in Indiantown."

The property owner, Lisa Corp., filed the eviction suit in January in Martin
Circuit Court, claiming no rent had been paid on the apartments for a year.

The families insisted they paid their money to a Benito Rodriguez, but Rodriguez
was not there Thursday, and an official court order said they had to go.

The families paid Benito Rodriguez $650 a month per house in rent, tenant Lopez
said in Spanish, with Juan Carlos Lasso, director of religious services for the
church, translating.

Rodriguez was supposed to pay the water bill with part of that rent as well,
Lasso said. But two months ago, the Indiantown Co. shut off the water to the
houses, saying the tenants owed it $4,000.

Since then, tenant Antonio Sandoval has been toting water from his job with
Tampa Farm Services for the families to use.

When a process server tried to find Benito Rodriguez in January, he was told he
was in North Carolina, court records show.

This was the last section of the White Camp to fall to the bulldozers in
suddenly booming Indiantown.

The acreage was not included in the plan submitted for the 571-acre Quillen
Development. But the owner listed on plat maps, Lisa Corp., is the same, and the
property is bordered on three sides by the project. It is to include thousands
of homes, a college campus and the community's first movie theater.

All traces of the White Camp will be erased.

With proposals for thousands of new homes in Indiantown developments, the number
of rental properties is shrinking, particularly those affordable to the low-wage
workers who called the White Camp home.

In January, plans to include the college campus were added to the proposed
Quillen Development. Developers told members of the Treasure Coast Regional
Planning Council they were in talks with two universities about adding satellite
campuses to the project.

Plans announced by Indiantown Development LLC of Delray Beach call for 1,900
single-family homes, 350 multi-family units and 320,000 square feet of
commercial space.

The project is in the early stages of the application and review process,which
could take a year or longer.

On Thursday, most of the windows on the 11 homes were broken out and some of the
doors had been removed. There were dead animals, sewage and trash everywhere.

Joe Galli of Galli Construction, who said he was hired by Lisa Corp. to tear
down the homes, said most of the buildings were in such bad shape they should
have been condemned years ago.

"There are so many code violations in there," he said. "There are no windows and
the toilets don't work. I wouldn't want to live there, but if they have no place
else to go, I can understand how they feel."

jason_schultz@pbpost.com

jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) & MAP (B&W)
 MEGHAN McCARTHY/Staff Photographer 1. (C) While Mireya Colin packs her
belongings, her son naps on a couch in front of their home in Indiantown's White
Camp. They were among more than a dozen migrants, the last in the camp, evicted
Thursday. A big mixed-use development by the camp's owner, Lisa Corp., is being
planned for the area. 2. (B&W) Julio Colin, 14, moves a box spring after his
family and others were evicted Thursday from their home in Indiantown's White
Camp. 'They have no place to go,' a priest said of the dozen evicted Mexican
migrants. 3. (B&W) MARK HEMPHILL/Staff Artist Area where migrants were evicted

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              243 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA DELEGATION ISN'T EXPECTED TO PLAY BIG ROLE

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


If Congress gets around to writing a final version of an immigration bill,
Florida lawmakers could find themselves on the outside looking in.

With the House and Senate on a collision course to pass widely different
immigration bills, a final version likely would be hammered out by conferees
from both chambers. Bills adopted by a conference committee cannot be amended,
they can only be accepted or rejected.

While Florida has much at stake in the immigration debate, including an illegal
immigrant population estimated between about 500,000 and nearly 1 million, few
if any of the state's lawmakers are likely to be on the conference committee
because of their committee assignments and lack of seniority.

Conferees for the immigration bill are likely to come from the House Judiciary
Committee, the House Homeland Security Committee and the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

Neither of Florida's senators - Democrat Bill Nelson or Republican Mel Martinez
- serve on the Judiciary Committee, which probably leaves them out.

On the House side, the seven Florida representatives on the two committees rank
far down the seniority list and none serve on the immigration subcommittee. That
doesn't prohibit any of them from being selected, but it makes the odds against
them longer.

"The likelihood of members from Florida being on the conference committee is
small," said Rep. Robert Wexler of Delray Beach, who ranks 12th in seniority
among the 17 Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee.

The Floridian most likely to be picked from the Judiciary Committee could be
Rep. Ric Keller, a Republican from Orlando who ranks 15th out of the 23
Republicans and who has made immigration reform his top domestic issue,
including recently touring the U.S.-Mexico border in California.

Keller said that the only certain conferees would be Reps. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., the Judiciary chairman; and Peter King, R-N.Y., the Homeland Security
chairman. But Keller said it was conceivable that with his demonstrated interest
in the topic he could be selected.

Keller said he spoke Thursday with Sensenbrenner about the conference committee,
but did not specifically ask to be appointed.

The appointments are made by the House speaker with recommendations from the
committee chairmen. Regardless of whether he becomes a conferee, Keller said he
believes he would have input because he has a close relationship with
Sensenbrenner.

Keller is a staunch advocate of the House bill, which calls for a 700-mile long
fence along the U.S.-Mexico border. The bill also would make it a felony to be
an illegal immigrant or to assist an illegal immigrant, although Sensenbrenner
has said he would try to reduce that to a misdemeanor in conference.

Among Homeland Security members, the state's most senior member is Rep.
Katherine Harris, R-Longboat Key, who ranks 14th out of the 19 Republicans.
Harris ranks eighth out of the nine GOP members of the panel's subcommittee that
oversees border security issues.

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              244 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARCHING IMMIGRANTS CHALLENGE U.S. SOVEREIGNTY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 94 words


The reconquest of California, New Mexico, Arizona and Texas has begun, and most
Americans don't even know it. Our leaders have betrayed us by proposing amnesty
to those who have broken our laws. These illegal aliens who march with foreign
flags ("Half a million march for immigration rights," March 26) are challenging
the sovereignty of our nation by attempting to dictate its policies.

We can expect declining schools and hospitals, increased welfare rolls, higher
taxes and, worst of all, a weakened language and culture if we do not resist.

HELENE STARR

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              245 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN GETS SIX MONTHS FOR ROLE IN DEADLY CRASH

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 21-year-old man will get six months in jail for his role in a deadly accident
last year that seriously wounded two and killed a Lantana mother.

A circuit judge accepted 21-year-old Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza's plea deal Monday
morning against the wishes of the dead woman's family, who wanted him to serve
as much as life in prison. Mendoza, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, pleaded
guilty to two felonies - driving without a license and leaving the scene of an
accident that resulted in a death - and will essentially end his six-month stint
at the county jail and stockade for the Sept. 25 accident that killed Kimberly
Jo Dahmer, 42. But he probably will remain behind bars as he awaits deportation
back to Mexico, another requirement of the deal.

"Welcome to America," the victim's husband, Steve Dahmer, lashed out in front of
television cameras outside the courtroom Monday. "I have no faith in the justice
system whatsoever. She's lying dead; he's getting a second chance. My kids ain't
getting a second chance."

Dahmer and another motorcyclist crashed into the back of Mendoza's 1988 Chevy
Blazer after Mendoza made a U-turn and came to a dead stop on South Military
Trail amid oncoming traffic. Mendoza was trying to retrieve his cellphone, which
was in the road.

Dahmer and the other biker, Pierre Nadeau, 49, of West Palm Beach, were
intoxicated, according to an accident report. Prosecutors have charged both with
misdemeanor counts of driving under the influence.

"In my heart of hearts, I think that Mr. Dahmer was partially responsible for
what happened," Assistant State Attorney Ellen Roberts told Judge Lucy Chernow
Brown. "But from a super mathematical standpoint, I can't prove it."

The problem, Roberts said, was the inability to reconstruct the crash because of
conflicting information from witnesses and a change in testimony, both regarding
how long Mendoza was stopped and how much time Dahmer had to react.

Kimberly Jo Dahmer died on the scene after being ejected off the rear of her
husband's 1996 Harley-Davidson bike. Dahmer has denied drinking prior to the
accident. He has, however, gone on an offensive against prosecutors, calling the
plea deal discriminatory. He says if an American citizen were in Mendoza's
place, driving without a license and fleeing the scene of an accident, he would
have gotten more than a "slap on the wrist."

His children, Tawsha, 16, and Dalton, 9, gave a tearful plea to the judge for a
harsher sentence. At the most, Mendoza could have served 20 years in prison.

But Roberts said recent history with juries shows they are less inclined to
return guilty verdicts for fleeing the scene of an accident. Plus, she added,
Mendoza could have argued he fled out of fear because of all the bikers
travelling with the accident victims.

Prior to the accident, Mendoza had been cited four times for driving without a
license. If Mendoza returns to the United States after his deportation, he
cannot be retried for the charges he pleaded guilty to Monday. In his first
public statements since the accident, Mendoza sent his condolences to the Dahmer
family.

"I want to apologize for what happened," Mendoza said through a translator. May
God bless them. . . . I just ask them to forgive me."

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

PalmBeachPost.com: See a NEWS 12 report, featuring the victim's husband's
reaction to the decision. PalmBeachPost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C)
 Staff photos by THOMAS CORDY 1. 'A SLAP ON THE WRIST': The Dahmer family and
friends console each other after the sentencing Monday. Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza
pleaded guilty to leaving the scene of a Sept. 25 accident that killed Kimberly
Jo Dahmer, a passenger on a back of a motorcycle driven by her husband, Steve
Dahmer (right). 2. WIFE AND MOTHER: Steve Dahmer wore the picture of his late
wife, Kimberly Jo, to the sentencing Monday. 3. FACING DEPORTATION: Mendoza was
sentenced to time served and will be deported to Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              246 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAST WEEK'S TOP STORIES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 511 words


Immigrant to be jailed, deported after fatal crash

MONDAY: Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, will serve
six months in jail and will be deported back to Mexico for his role in a Sept.
25 accident that seriously wounded two and killed Kimberly Jo Dahmer, 42, of
Lantana. Dahmer was a passenger on her husband's motorcycle when he and another
biker crashed into the back of Mendoza's Chevy Blazer after he stopped amid
oncoming traffic to retrieve his cellphone, which was in the road on South
Military Trail. Mendoza, 21, pleaded guilty to two felonies: driving without a
license and leaving the scene of an accident that resulted in a death.

Insurer cancels all policies, cites losses to hurricanes

TUESDAY: Atlantic Preferred Insurance Co., owned by Poe Financial Group,
confirmed that it's canceling all of its policies because back-to-back
destructive hurricane seasons have drained it of capital needed to meet state
regulatory requirements. The insurer has more than 142,000 policies statewide,
including more than 32,500 in Palm Beach County. The first policies will be
dropped as of July 13. After two active hurricane seasons, the company has run
up $2 billion in gross losses and more than 125,000 claims.

Gas station clerk set on fire by boyfriend, police say

TUESDAY: Tanya Hughey, a 38-year-old gas station clerk, was doused with fuel,
set on fire and locked in a burning store after an argument with her boyfriend,
police said. The attack at the Mobil gas station on Blue Heron Boulevard left
Hughey with burns over 90 percent of her body. Police charged Lester Parsons,
49, whom Hughey had dated for the past few years, with attempted murder and
arson. Witnesses put out the flames before rescue officials arrived. Hughey was
listed in critical condition at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami.

Boynton middle school teacher gets county honor

THURSDAY: Sheri Predmore, who teaches language arts to special education
students at Christa McAuliffe Middle School in Boynton Beach, was selected by
the Palm Beach County School District out of 176 applicants as its 2006 Teacher
of the Year. Principal Terry Costa, who hired Predmore nine years ago, presented
the award to her. An All-America swimmer at the University of Tampa, Predmore,
39, said she takes her sports discipline to the classroom, doing whatever it
takes to help her students succeed. A resident of Boynton Beach, she is working
toward a doctorate in special education.

Driver with Xanax in blood charged in deadly crash

WEDNESDAY: Justin Estrich of suburban Boca Raton was driving with almost three
times the medical dose of Xanax in his system when he ran a red light at Jog
Road and Brentwood Boulevard near Greenacres and killed America Babilonia, 59,
of Lake Worth, according to the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. Estrich, 23,
was arrested after the Dec. 5 crash, possibly making him the first to be charged
with DUI manslaughter for using the anti-anxiety drug. He also was charged with
leaving the scene of a crash involving death and possessing drug paraphernalia.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Daniel Rodriguez Mendoza (mug) 2. BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer Sheri
Predmore reacts as Schools Superintendent Art Johnson announces Thursday morning
that she is teacher of the year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              247 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' KIDCARE IN LIMBO;
HOUSE PANEL PUTS BRAKES ON $15 MILLION FOR THOSE UNINSURED

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


As Congress continues to clash over what rights to extend, if any, to the 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States, the Florida House of
Representatives quietly put the clamps on a bill Tuesday that would provide
health insurance to 10,000 children of immigrants who are in the country
legally.

In a year that the state is flush with cash, the legislature is in the process
of cutting up to $205 million from the state's KidCare program, which provides
health insurance to children whose families make too much money to qualify for
Medicaid but who cannot afford private insurance.

And Tuesday, House Republicans took a step toward killing a proposal that would
spend $15 million on the uninsured children of legal immigrants - those in the
country with green cards or through other legal programs.

"It's a matter of priorities," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rep.
Joe Negron, R-Stuart, who is pushing for hundreds of millions of dollars in tax
cuts this session and cited the need for more education money as an example of
more important priorities.

Sen. Durrell Peaden, R-Crestview and the Senate sponsor of the bill, was shocked
by Negron's comments.

"All the money we've got in the budget and children aren't the priority? That's
kind of un-American, isn't it?" asked Peaden, chairman of the Senate Health Care
Appropriations Committee.

Jose Rincon, a Mexico native who picks mushrooms in Quincy and recently became a
legal resident, drove to Tallahassee on Tuesday for what he and a dozen other
legal immigrants believed would be the approval of the KidCare bill through the
House Health Care Appropriations meeting.

But after committee Chairman Rep. Aaron Bean saluted the group for visiting the
Capitol, he put HB 1365 on indefinite hold, explaining later that there are
other health care needs that the state must pay.

"They're always going to think like that because they've never been in our
shoes," said Rincon, a single parent who said he cares for his six teenage
uninsured children on a $300-a-week salary. "They just cut that program a couple
years ago, so that should tell you how they think of it."

Rincon referred to sweeping changes that the GOP-controlled legislature made to
the KidCare program in 2004.

One of those changes was to tighten application requirements, which created a
sharp decline in enrollment - from 363,000 children in April 2004 to around
220,000 today.

One of the changes in 2004 was to prohibit any more children of legal immigrants
entering the program.

At the time, 13,700 such children were insured by the program, but their spots
have been eliminated as they exited the program, and there are now fewer than
4,000 legal immigrant children remaining in the program.

The House, Senate and Gov. Jeb Bush have all proposed slashing spending for the
KidCare program in general because of the enrollment drop precipitated by the
changes they made in 2004. They say that they are now paying for empty spots and
that all children in the program will continue to be covered.

But child-care advocates say the money saved as a result of the 2004 changes
should be used to extend the program's benefits to more people who need it,
including $15 million for the legal immigrants and other money for more outreach
programs to try to boost enrollment among the poor.

"We went through so much to come here, we're worked so hard to do things the
right way and get our documents, and we can't even get the basics," said
Catalina Morales, a mother of two who picks oranges and pumpkins around Dade
City. "It's pure discrimination."

Bean said after his committee meeting that if there is money available as House
and Senate members meet to negotiate the final budget, he would consider putting
it toward the migrant program.

alan_gomez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2006 Day 36 Session runs through May 5. Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. CLASH OVER KIDCARE: Rep. Joe Negron (left), R-Stuart, said the move to try
to kill the proposal for uninsured children of immigrants was 'a matter of
priorities,' prompting ... 2. ... Sen. Durrell Peaden, R-Crestview, to observe,
'That's kind of un-American, isn't it?'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              248 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MOW AMERICAN! IT'S TIME WE CROP TILL WE DROP

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Surviving Suburbia; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words


Some people think that illegal immigration is ruining this country.

I've got a way they can demonstrate their independence from immigrant labor.

Mow Your Own Lawn Month.

I realize that some of the people doing landscaping in South Florida in the
middle of the summer are legal residents. But, according to estimates, many
aren't.

Isn't it time we Mow American?

And so the best way that most of us can prove our independence from foreign
labor is to just mow our own lawns - just for a month.

Yes, we'll be putting some American workers temporarily out of work. But that's
collateral damage, something you have to accept in time of war.

I'd suggest June or July as a perfect month for this sort of all-American
lawn-care protest.

Because, let's face it, if you're working outside in the middle of the summer in
South Florida, you're showing a can-do attitude.

It's hot out there, and the grass grows quickly once the daily rains come. So
you'll be out there on a weekly basis, protesting up a storm.

Drink lots of water. And wear protective goggles, sunscreen and a hat.

If you don't have a mower, I'd suggest getting a self-propelled one. You pay a
little more, but if you avoid even just one instance of heat exhaustion, it's
worth it.

And you're going to need an edger - once again, I'd recommend one with an
engine, rather than the old-fashioned muscle-powered one.

A lot of people in my neighborhood will have to buy or borrow lawn equipment
because not many people mow their own lawns.

Did I mention a hedge trimmer? You'll need one of those, too. And get a bunch of
leaf bags.

Budget yourself about $700 - it's the least you can do for your country.

The protest will demonstrate to the landscaping companies that we will only
tolerate American citizens mowing our lawns.

Did I mention a leaf blower? Nice to have one of those too if you have any money
left over from your lawn-care budget.

Anyway, where was I? Oh yes, the result of Mow Your Own Lawn Month will be that
landscaping companies will get the message that we'll only tolerate them hiring
American workers, paying them a living wage, worker's compensation and health
benefits.

It's how we'd expect to be treated ourselves. Sure, it would raise the operating
costs of the business significantly.

But it would keep those illegals from working here and sending back money to
their families in Mexico, Guatemala and other Latin American countries.

And it would send a message that we're serious about illegal immigration. So
serious that when we hire the all-American landscaping company to mow our lawn
again, we'd gladly pay $600 a month to have our lawns looking neat again.

What's that? You're not willing to pay that much? You want to still pay $120 a
month?

I'm afraid that's just an old way of thinking.

Did I mention you'll probably want to have a weed whacker for trimming around
the trees and walkways?

- frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Boynton Beach

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              249 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DON'T BOYCOTT, IMMIGRANT LEADERS ADVISE

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT and EVE SAMPLES Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 705 words


Business owner Carlos Ortiz sympathizes with the hundreds of his customers who
are fearful of proposed restrictions on immigrants.

"I'm a U.S. citizen since 1986, but at one time in my life I was in their
shoes," said the Colombian-born Ortiz, who plans to close the El Bodegon
supermarket for one day Monday to show support for his mostly Hispanic
customers.

The market in suburban West Palm Beach is one of the larger businesses that will
observe a nationwide boycott called A Day of Respect.

The boycott, first announced by immigrant groups in California, appears to have
little momentum in Palm Beach County.

Instead of promoting the boycott, groups here are organizing rallies on Sunday
in West Palm Beach and on Monday in Belle Glade to support laws allowing
undocumented immigrants to establish legal residency.

"We are not calling for a boycott," said Jose Alcerro, a Honduran community
leader who is helping organize Sunday's march and rally in downtown West Palm
Beach. He said he's advising immigrants that boycotting work on Monday is a
"personal decision."

Calls in some parts of the country to keep students home on Monday are not being
repeated here, Alcerro said.

"We're telling the kids to go to school," he said. "They have to get an
education and shouldn't miss any school."

There is no talk of boycotts from the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, whose
members include non-Hispanics.

"We have not passed any resolutions," chamber Chairwoman Elena Contreras said.
"We are supportive, but we serve all of the community."

The West Palm Beach rally is on Sunday so that immigrants can show up for work
on Monday, one organizer said.

"We don't want people to risk being fired from their jobs," said Christine
Jones, head organizer for ACORN, a community activist group. "We think it's more
important to get our voice heard than risk people losing their jobs."

An event Monday in Fort Pierce will be a family-oriented picnic at Rotary Park.

A Fort Pierce electronics company sent memos to workers in English and Spanish
Thursday saying unexcused absences Monday would be met with disciplinary action.

In St. Lucie County, more than 100 Hispanic-owned firms are expected to close
Monday, and some 4,000 workers may stay home, organizers said.

The boycott comes on the heels of an April 10 pro-immigrant protest in Fort
Pierce that left about 40 people without jobs for taking the day off, said Zaira
Gomez of the Latin American Coalition of St. Lucie County. This time, she and
other organizers are preaching caution.

"It's everybody's judgment to decide: Is it worth your family's economy to lose
your job?" she said.

In addition to construction and landscaping, the work stoppage could slow
productivity for roofers and nurseries, said Gwenda Thompson, president and
chief executive officer of the Workforce Development Board of the Treasure
Coast.

Most local builders support a federal guest worker program and probably would be
accommodating if an employee requested the day off to participate in Monday's
work stoppage.

"I'm not so sure that we're all so magnanimous," said local builder Don Santos,
a spokesman for the Treasure Coast Builders Association. "I think it comes to a
more practical purpose."

That is, low unemployment levels have made workers hard to find.

"It makes no sense to send your workers home forever if we have no one to
replace them," he said.

Raids by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement have been reported, but no
local arrests have been confirmed, said Angelina Castro, a lawyer with the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Fort Pierce.

"So people are not even going to work. They're really afraid," Castro said.

The center is not supporting Monday's boycott because it fears workers will lose
their jobs if they walk out.

Bobby Rodriguez, chairman of the Latin Chamber of Commerce of the Treasure
Coast, echoed those concerns but plans to participate in the boycott.

"The (workers) that are illegal, they're walking a fine line, they're taking a
big chance," he said.

In Palm Beach County, El Bodegon owner Ortiz says his customers asked him to
close the popular supermarket to observe Monday's boycott.

"Our business is run by the customer," Ortiz said. "Without them, we have no
business."

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              250 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIGRANT FARMWORKERS STAND TO BENEFIT FROM LEGISLATION

BYLINE: By ALAN GOMEZ Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


As the immigration debate rages nationwide, migrant farmworkers quietly are
having a successful session in the Florida Legislature.

Proposals to better equip work vans that transport farmworkers with seat belts,
to better monitor pesticide exposure in Florida groves and to spend $25 million
for affordable migrant housing appear likely to clear the legislature.

But proposals that would help the children of illegal immigrants get monetary
aid to go to Florida colleges and universities and grant health care to 13,000
children of legal immigrants remain in the air heading into the final week of
the session.

"Historically, we're not allowed to have more than one migrant issue each
session," social services advocate Karen Woodall said. "So overall, we've done
very well."

The widespread success of migrant issues could be due in part to a legislative
committee that spent the winter studying the problems facing migrant workers.

That committee set out a list of recommendations that, for the most part, the
legislature has embraced.

A bill sponsored by Rep. Baxter Troutman, R-Winter Haven, co-chairman of the
Joint Legislative Commission on Migrant and Seasonal Labor, would require seat
belts in every seat of vans that transport migrant farmworkers. Under SB 258,
van owners would face $200 fines if they don't have proper seat belts on each
seat, and $100 fines if they don't display a sticker proving that the state has
inspected the van.

Both chambers have unanimously approved the bill, but the Senate must vote on it
again because of a small change the House made.

Legislators also have agreed to add 10 new inspectors to the Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services to monitor pesticide use in Florida's farms.
Currently, there are 20 pesticide inspectors in Florida.

Members of the migrant commission made pesticide one their top priorities after
learning that more than 98 percent of Florida's farms are not inspected to
ensure workers are not being exposed to dangerous pesticides.

Legislators now seem poised to spend $700,000 for additional inspectors to
increase those numbers, although a separate plan to increase penalties for grove
owners who violate pesticide exposure laws has failed.

"We could use more than (10 inspectors), but it's a good start," said Sen. J.D.
Alexander, R-Lake Wales, co-chairman of the commission.

Both chambers also seem in agreement on spending $25 million in affordable
migrant housing relief for homes damaged by last year's hurricanes.

But two bills that would help the children of both legal and illegal immigrants
are still unresolved.

Rep. Mike Davis, R-Naples, tried to get the children of legal immigrants back
into the state-sponsored KidCare program. They were cut out of the program two
years ago when the federal government stopped spending money on that group of
children, meaning the state would have to foot the roughly $18 million bill on
its own.

KidCare is the state's health care plan for parents who make too much to qualify
for Medicaid but are too poor to pay for private health insurance.

Davis' proposal died and legislators so far have refused to include the 13,000
children that could be covered under the proposal into the budget. The issue is
now before House Speaker Allan Bense and Senate President Tom Lee, who must get
the final budget to their members by Tuesday if the legislature is to vote on it
before Friday's scheduled adjournment.

Lee has said only that he does not oppose the proposal and Bense said Friday
that it is still in play. While he worries about saddling future House speakers
with a fully state-funded program like KidCare for legal immigrants, he said the
immigration debate taking place at the national level should not affect those
uninsured kids.

"I think we should take care of our legal immigrants," Bense said.

Bense also supports two proposals in the House that would help children of
illegal immigrants get either in-state tuition (HB 119, SB 366) at Florida
colleges and universities or grants for college (HB 785, SB 1750).

But both measures are struggling and Rep. Juan Zapata, R-Miami, sponsor of the
proposal to grant in-state tuition to children of illegal immigrants, conceded
they have little chance this session.

He said that while the migrant community has had its most successful session in
years, he is disappointed that it remains such a struggle to pass anything that
will help the community.

"These children have played by the rules," Zapata said. "But when you try to do
something for immigrants, somehow there's this automatic pushback. People need
to see things for what they are and not throw the baby out with the bathwater -
that to a certain degree is what we've been doing."

- alan_gomez@pbpost.com

More unresolved issues

EMINENT DOMAIN

Situation:

In response to a U.S. Supreme Court decision last year, Florida legislators want
to change the state's laws and constitution so they no longer allow government
agencies to take people's homes or businesses through eminent domain for
economic development. The proposed changes (HB 1567, HJR 1569, SB 2168, SJR 626)
would permit state and local governments to use eminent domain only for public
purposes such as roads, schools and parks.

Outlook:

Probable. Republicans and Democrats widely support limiting eminent domain for
economic redevelopment, and the only real difference between the chambers is
that the Senate would exempt ongoing projects such as Riviera Beach's from the
new rules until 2010, while the House provides no such exception.

POLITICAL FUND-RAISING REFORM

Situation:

Senate President Tom Lee wants to require more rapid and complete reporting of
contributions to and expenditures by 527 political committees, which are named
after the section of the federal tax code under which they are organized. He
also wants to limit the benefits available to elected officials and candidates.

Outlook:

Uncertain. Dozens of lawmakers probably don't want to give up control of the
loosely regulated committees that can raise unlimited sums of money from
interest groups with legislation before them, then spend it largely at their own
discretion.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2006 Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              251 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SING ANTHEM IN ENGLISH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 183 words


Immigrants always have added to America's rich culture. Across the United
States, festivals and parades celebrate the folk ways of Greece, China, Africa,
France, Poland, Japan, Ireland -- you name it. This Friday will feature
countless Cinco de Mayo celebrations.

But Americans bristle if they perceive that a foreign culture wishes to replace,
rather than augment, American culture.

That's where immigrants' rights advocates went wrong when they marched waving
foreign flags, and they went wrong again last week when they released a Spanish
language version of The Star Spangled Banner. It didn't help that the
translation was loose, to put it kindly.

Immigrants who want to be welcomed won't get far rejecting such basic national
symbols as the flag and anthem.

Neither should Americans be too harsh on those who, it seems, are groping for
ways to express their regard for America.

America's symbols stand for freedom of expression, striving for liberty and
pursuit of economic well-being. Regardless of language or flag, immigrants who
display those qualities honor the country in which they hope to live.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              252 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HURRICANE REFUGEES RISKING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 297 words


Thousands of Hondurans and Nicaraguans considered hurricane refugees from
Central America may be playing Russian roulette with their legal status in the
United States, immigration advocates said Tuesday.

About 67,000 people eligible for temporary residency in the United States
haven't signed up for another year's protected status, according to the U.S.
department of Citizenship and Immigrant Services. The deadline is June 1.

The refugees may be gambling that Congress will approve a broad amnesty law,
saving them the $250 fee for applying for another year's work authorization,
immigrant groups say.

"They are playing Russian roulette," said Jose Lagos, president of Honduran
Unity, a Miami-based organization.

If Congress doesn't act, those who didn't apply could face deportation, he said.

"The temporary protection is the antidote against raids and deportations," Lagos
said.

The refugees were granted temporary protective status since Hurricane Mitch
devastated their countries in 1998. The status for an estimated 75,000 Hondurans
and 4,000 Nicaraguans will expire June 1 unless they file for renewal.

The 2000 Census counted about 6,000 Hondurans and 2,000 Nicaraguans living in
Palm Beach County.

"Immigrants are incredibly hopeful that something favorable will pass this
year," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center in Miami. "That may be influencing their decision as to whether or not to
apply for the temporary protected status."

The cost of applying could discourage those with large families and one income,
Lagos said.

If Congress passes a legalization law, those with protected status would be in a
better position to qualify because the federal government has their photos and
fingerprints on file, Lagos said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              253 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IN OMAHA, IT MIGHT AS WELL BE 1953

BYLINE: Elisa Cramer

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 705 words


There's a place for those who felt threatened by the sight Monday and last month
of thousands of Latino immigrants marching in streets throughout the United
States: Omaha.

The Nebraska Legislature so condones Omaha's racially segregated schools that
the state's lawmakers last month made such separation permanent. One school
district for whites, one for blacks, one for Latinos.

It seems to be exactly the kind of place that immigration foes are seeking - at
least as second-best to the vicious "keep them out ... at any cost!" hatred
spewed on a new anti-immigrant video game. On a Web site attributed to white
supremacists, the goal of the "game" Border Patrol is to kill as many illegal
immigrants as possible. It calls those killed "wetbacks" and targets a "Mexican
nationalist," "breeder" (referring to a pregnant woman with two young children)
and a "drug smuggler."

The Web site has other "games" targeting people - minorities - because of their
race. Scores tally the injured and dead by noting how many are men, women and
children. In one "game," the highest score is reserved for killing a police
officer. Those who "play" the so-called game can choose their weapon and
delivery: Drive-by shooter and suicide bomber are options.

It is, perhaps, counterproductive even to acknowledge such anonymous Web-based
"games," or even those with well-known, established producers, such as Take-Two
Interactive Software's Grand Theft Auto: Vice City video game. In early versions
of that video game, a gang leader shouted "Kill all the Haitians!" That "game"
sold 10.5 million copies before outraged Haitian activists and others persuaded
its manufacturers in 2003 to drop the offensive language. I suspect that the
more attention such hate efforts get, the better like-minded racists feel.

But such "games" have the power to desensitize us to violence while reinforcing
the most egregious racial stereotypes. The "games" are not harmless. Instead,
they teach the youngest among us to think it really is "us" against "them." That
the lives of those who do not look like us, talk like us or dress like us are
worth less. That we should feel superiority over them. That we shouldn't share
neighborhoods, churches, grocery stores or classrooms with them.

Which brings me back to Omaha.

The sponsor of the amendment that enshrines Omaha's school-district segregation
has denied that effect in numerous newspaper and TV interviews. "There is no
integration which is being overturned by (Legislative Bill) 1024," Sen. Ernie
Chambers told the Omaha World-Herald, "so it neither segregates, nor
resegregates. The segregation is already here."

Perhaps Nebraskans are simply more honest than the rest of us. After all, more
than 1 million people became legal U.S. residents last year from at least 20
different countries, but we still largely define race as simply black, white and
Hispanic. We're content to ignore distinctions of heritage, content to
broad-brush everyone from a particular region as having the same interests, the
same circumstances, deserving of the same fate.

We portray immigrants as competition for meager resources - in education, in
employment, in health care, in housing, in opportunities to gain wealth. But in
the crowds of sign-carrying, American flag-draped protesters pleading "Let me
love your country" and proclaiming "We are not criminals," I saw marchers of a
darker hue in a decade not so long ago, pleading for a similar chance to be
respected and free.

Sen. Chambers' argument that the three new Omaha school districts simply will
increase accountability sounds a lot like the bogus claim Gov. Jeb Bush and some
Florida lawmakers have made for smaller school districts and vouchers that
divert money from public to private schools. In Omaha, as in Florida, the better
answer is to uphold what Brown vs. Board of Education required.

Fifty-two years after the Supreme Court outlawed separate and unequal schools,
districts throughout this country too often fail to ensure that all public
schools - no matter the ethnicity of the students - are, first and foremost, of
equal quality. Omaha decided to stop trying.

Elisa Cramer is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. Her e-mail address
is elisa_cramer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              254 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAST WEEK'S TOP STORIES HEADLINE HERE IN 1 DECK RIGHT OVER HERE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 446 words


Experts: Lake O Dike poses 'grave danger'

MONDAY: The Herbert Hoover Dike poses "a grave and imminent danger to the people
and the environment of South Florida," a state-hired panel of engineering
experts warned in a report, saying a collapse of the dike would result in tens
of billions of dollars in damage, "would submerge vast areas to the south and
east" and endanger the 40,000 people who live around the lake. Gov. Jeb Bush
urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to take immediate action to protect the
leak-prone levee around Lake Okeechobee. The corps on Thursday expressed
confidence in the dike's integrity in a storm.

County immigrants join national rally

MONDAY: Thousands of undocumented immigrants, along with a few who have legal
status, took to the streets in Palm Beach County to ask legislators for fair
immigration reform. Children and adults gathered at rallies and religious
services to voice support for legislation that would grant legal status to the
close to 12 million undocumented workers in the country. The events were part of
a national movement, Un Dia Sin Inmigrantes (A Day Without Immigrants), that
featured businesses shutting down, employees boycotting work and students
skipping school to demonstrate the impact immigrants have on the U.S. economy.

County finally approves Scripps contract

TUESDAY: After weeks of stalled negotiations, Palm Beach County commissioners
unanimously struck a deal with The Scripps Research Institute, allowing the
institute's Florida campus to be split between Florida Atlantic University's
Jupiter campus and the Briger tract in Palm Beach Gardens. The parties had been
divided over who should assume the bulk of the risk under a new contract. An
e-mail from the governor's office said Gov. Jeb Bush and FAU President Frank
Brogan were supportive of the university buying Scripps' buildings for up to
$100 million if the institute were to leave before the 15-year contract expires.
The contract was signed by Chairman Tony Masilotti Friday. Scripps' executive
committee still must review the contract.

Legislature OKs eminent domain limits

THURSDAY: The state legislature passed a bill that severely restricts
governments' ability to take private property using eminent domain proceedings.
Lawmakers from Palm Beach County had tried to add a four-year exemption for
ongoing projects, including Riviera Beach's $2.6 billion waterfront
revitalization project and the Heart of Boynton effort. Riviera Beach officials
estimate that more than 1,000 residents would have to be displaced through
eminent domain to complete the redevelopment they are envisioning. Gov. Bush
said he would "absolutely" sign the bill (HB 1567).

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Guatemala native Mario Aquilar (center) joins
hundreds of demonstrators at a rally last Sunday in West Palm Beach's Currie
Park.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              255 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAST LIGHT, NOT SHADOW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 248 words


FEMA has done a terrible job responding to the needs of U.S. citizens, so
there's little surprise that the agency does even worse when it comes to
immigrants.

The Farmworker Association of Florida has filed a civil rights complaint on
behalf of at least 200 workers in the Glades, most of them Hispanics who spoke
little English. The complaint charges that the Federal Emergency Management
Agency has ignored their requests for help since Hurricane Wilma. According to
Florida Legal Services lawyers, FEMA provided no translators, was lackadaisical
when inspecting damaged trailers and homes, and was rude to residents.

Many families are still trying to live under leaking roofs and inside moldy
walls. In February, the farmworkers group sued FEMA, alleging that it didn't
give illegal immigrants the short-term, non-cash emergency help they were due.

Immigrant farmworkers drive Florida's large agriculture industry and the even
larger tourism industry. U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez spoke recently
in Orlando at a convention of travel leaders and said the industry had to be
more vocal in supporting federal legislation that would put qualifying illegal
immigrants on a path to legal residency, then perhaps citizenship. He called it
the "most important domestic issue of our time."

The country can't continue to ignore a shadow population of 12 million that
contributes so much to the U.S. economy. FEMA's actions show what a hypocritical
immigration policy does to people every day.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              256 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHERE IS AMERICA'S LOYALTY TO STRIVING AMERICANS?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 230 words


About the article "Immigrants' cause fills park" (May 1): This entire
immigration issue leaves me angry and resentful. Being an American is the best
thing in the world, and we have people in this country who are ungrateful for
the opportunities they are given. Complain that we are unfair or unjust? I just
don't see how. Learn our language, culture and prosper, maybe you would feel
differently.

We have modified our curriculum in schools, street signs and our way of living
to accommodate the influx of people searching for a better life.

America, the land of opportunity, has turned into America, land of the homeless,
the uninsured, the cash-poor, the indebted and the desperate because of these
immigrants. Come to America. We will provide you jobs and government services,
all so you can take what we pay you and send it back to where you came from.
This isn't benefiting the American economy; this depletes it to the point where
a single mother like me with a college education cannot gain assistance in
feeding, insuring, educating or bettering the life of my children in America
where wages are not meeting the cost of living in most areas.

Where is the loyalty to the American who cannot afford housing, cannot find a
job or survive in this society? I doubt any of us would be afforded an
opportunity in their homeland like that for which we offer them.

RHONDA OKSMAN

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              257 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO COMPASSION IN HOUSE'S IMMIGRATION MEASURE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 137 words


A recent letter about immigrants, which joined other complaining letters, is
shocking and comes across as mean-spirited ("Where is America's loyalty to
striving Americans?," May 15).

The writer must admit that most Hispanics, observed on any day, are working
diligently at menial tasks or looking for work. They contribute to our
productivity in great measure. They are young and healthy, for the most part,
and are not a burden on our medical or social services. Where are the Republican
moral values of yesteryear?

Now, the Republican-led House of Representatives wants to make felons of these
people, with the side effect that Hispanics generally will be considered
suspects. Where is the compassionate conservatism touted by the party just a few
years ago?

REV. SEBASTIAN L. MUCCILLI

Lake Park

REV. C. J. MAGUIRE

Riviera Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              258 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ A VOICE OF AUTHORITY IN DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As senators ended a lengthy news conference last week celebrating their passage
of an immigration bill, Majority Leader Bill Frist motioned Sen. Mel Martinez to
the microphones for one last comment, this time in Spanish.

It was an example of the high profile Florida's junior senator - the Senate's
only Hispanic Republican and only immigrant - attained during the many months
the Senate labored over the controversial bill.

Other tangible examples of Martinez's role are the roughly 200 bricks he has
received in the mail from opponents of the Senate's comprehensive immigration
bill. Symbols of the opponents' desire for tough border security, many of them
are arrayed in a herringbone pattern in Martinez's office suite.

"As long as they're not coming through the window, we can handle that," Martinez
said. "I respect people's point of view and I respect dissent, but there has
been a lot of ugliness. There have also been a lot of people who just said,
'Thank you for what you're doing.' "

Senators from both parties said Martinez played a pivotal role in the effort to
cobble together a bipartisan majority of at least 60 votes in the 100-member
Senate.

The bill still faces an uphill battle in the House, which opposes any
legislation that would give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

"I think it's safe to say we may have reformed immigration eventually, but I'm
not sure we would be reforming it now if it hadn't been for Mel Martinez," said
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.

"He was absolutely indispensable," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. "He was not
just an observer; he was an enormously important and significant player. He was
an architect of a key recommendation that opened up the opportunities to develop
strong bipartisan support, and he didn't just leave it there; he was one of our
small group."

Martinez said he did much of the negotiating with Kennedy and that after "some
shouting. Kennedy and I slugged it out some, and then we joined arms on this."

A legal immigrant who came to the U.S. from Cuba when he was 15, Martinez said
colleagues on both sides of the aisle looked to him for advice on some of the
issue's thornier questions.

"The fact that I was an immigrant, the fact that my story is a story that my
colleagues knew gave me an added voice that has been important throughout the
debate," he said.

Martinez took a leadership role several months ago when it became obvious that
the bill pushed by McCain and the Kennedy bill, which offered a path to
citizenship for all illegal immigrants, could not pass. Martinez asked his staff
to prepare some answers to the question of how to treat the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the U.S.

Many of those proposals closely tracked a bill introduced about five years ago
by Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb. Martinez and Hagel agreed to pool their ideas, and
their proposal became a key element in the final bill.

Instead of treating all illegal immigrants the same, it set up a three-tier
system in which those here five years or more could eventually apply for
citizenship after meeting certain requirements; those here two to five years
would have to temporarily leave the country and apply for entry; and those here
less than two years would have to leave or be subject to deportation.

"I think people like the idea that they (immigrants) are not all the same,"
Martinez said. "If you've been here a long time, it's one thing; if you've been
here a short period of time, it's another."

Hagel called Martinez "a very significant part" of the effort. "There is no one
in the Senate who has more credibility on this issue than Mel Martinez."

Martinez was one of a handful of senators who met nearly every morning for
several weeks to devise the day's strategy in dealing with the dozens of
amendments that threatened the fragile coalition. He also gently lobbied his
colleagues in the Senate gym, over dinner and on the Senate floor.

To those senators who wanted much stricter enforcement and penalties, Martinez
said he would jokingly complain that "some of their proposals might end up
sending me back" to Cuba.

Martinez acknowledged that his support for a 370-mile, three-layer fence along
portions of the border was "a little bit of a reversal," after his opposition to
the House's 700-mile fence.

"I still think it's an ugly symbol, but I don't think it's what this bill stands
for," he said.

Martinez received high marks from employer groups such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Florida Farm Bureau for his efforts to ensure that the
immigration bill contained a guest worker program.

"We're very supportive of border security, but we need to ensure we have a guest
worker program because we're going to need a legal supply of workers. We don't
feel there are enough (domestic) workers," said Kevin Morgan, director of
agricultural policy for the Florida Farm Bureau.

Morgan said Martinez "has done an admirable job of stepping up on a tough issue.
We're very happy that he was willing to do that."

But Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration
Studies, said Martinez "seems to see the benefits (of immigration), but he
doesn't understand or think about the costs."

Camarota said Martinez represented "the employers" who want access to cheap
labor, "but the concerns of his constituents (who oppose amnesty or increasing
the cap on legal immigration) didn't seem to loom very large."

Martinez acknowledged that "sometimes our phones ring and they're hot,"
referring to what he called some "ugly, ugly" calls from angry citizens. But he
said he also received support from farmers, contractors and tourism industry
leaders who pleaded for more workers.

He said he has received an outpouring of support from immigrants. It's not
unusual for him to get a hug from "someone behind the counter" at a restaurant,
he said.

The immigration bill has given Martinez his highest visibility in Washington
since last year's battle over the fate of brain-damaged Terri Schiavo, when
Martinez's bill to override a federal judge's order disconnecting her from a
feeding tube became the focus of a bitter battle.

Despite the controversy the immigration issue has generated, Martinez said he's
proud of his role.

"I didn't come here just to warm a chair. I believe in being busy and being
occupied with the business of the nation and try to do what I believe to be
right," he said. "At the end of the day, I think our nation is going to be made
better and richer, as it has over the years, by people who choose to come here
for a better life."

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC:  1. (C) Sen. Mel Martinez (mug) 2. (B&W) Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla.,
looks over some of the bricks sent to his Washington office by opponents of the
Senate's immigration reform bill. 'As long as they're not coming through the
window, we can handle that,' he said. Lawmakers of both parties credit Martinez
with getting senators to coalesce around the compromise bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              259 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PATH TO CITIZENSHIP DOESN'T START BY BREAKING U.S. LAWS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 107 words


Regardless of what President Bush and Sens. John McCain, Chuck Hagel and Mel
Martinez call their "pathway to citizenship," it fits the definition of amnesty
("Senate immigration bill borders on the realistic," May 27 editorial).

What is wrong with these people who would give amnesty to those who have broken
our laws by being here illegally, working with fraudulent Social Security
numbers stolen from U.S. citizens? Not only are they being given amnesty (based
on who has violated our immigration laws the longest); they are being rewarded
for being here illegally and stealing an American's identity. This is insane.

MARLENE BROWNEY

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              260 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION 'REFORM' A DIVERSION FROM DISASTERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 227 words


With desperate poll numbers, Republicans, led by Karl Rove, the unindicted
co-conspirator who outed a spy for political retribution against her husband,
have succeeded in focusing our attention on our immigration woes and away from
closing factories, the outsourcing of good jobs, and the boondoggle of the
completely unnecessary and budget-busting war in Iraq. Just in time for fall
elections.

Immigration "reform" is being manipulated to blame farmworkers and others who
take less-than-desirable work to lead good, caring Americans to believe that
Mexicans and others from Latin America are the cause of all of our ills, while
shifting attention away from Republicans who have controlled all three branches
of the federal government for the past six years. They have led us to
record-setting budget deficits, government corruption on a scale not seen in
generations, and an economy that is converting skilled, good-paying jobs to
unskilled, low-paying jobs in the service industries.

Scapegoating those who don't have any power or influence, and are easily
identifiable by their brown skin and Spanish language, is a bully's way to shift
focus away from the true causes of our shrinking industrial economy. Rounding up
and deporting them echoes a tactic used by another group of "conservatives" back
in Germany beginning circa 1935.

ISIDRO M. GARCIA

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              261 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LET THESE REFUGEES STAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 417 words


The best definition of political asylum is in legislation before Congress. It
would let Haitians who fled in desperation during the 1990s remain in the United
States.

In fact, that was the objective of the 1998 Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness
Act. The overdue law was passed after Haitian military leaders who had deposed
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in a 1991 coup also loosed onto the country
machete-wielding gangs that carried out a deadly rampage. Many who escaped by
boat and survived the crossing were returned by the Coast Guard to those same
murderous hands. The U.S. not only recognized that these people were true
refugees; the government tried to rectify their mistreatment with the 1998 law
offering legal status to those in this country.

But some who would have died had they stayed in Haiti, and were told that theirs
would be among the bodies that littered the streets if they returned, still need
delivery from immigration limbo because they used false documents - such as
forged passports - to get out by plane. U.S. Rep. Kendrick Meek, D-Miami, has
proposed an amendment to the Senate immigration bill that would fix that flaw in
the law that was meant to include these Haitians. With help from Sens. Bill
Nelson, D-Fla., and Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, Rep. Meek's amendment to the original
act was included in the immigration bill that the Senate passed in May.

Today's political reality, however, is that this compassion is imperiled at
least until after the November elections. It was blocked in the Rules Committee
to help House members look "tough" on immigration in the overall bill, though
heartless is more like it. Rep. Meek estimates that his proposal would benefit
as many as 8,000 Haitians. Other advocates estimate the number at between 1,500
and 3,000, since the great majority of the 40,000 applicants fled by boat.
Whatever the number, those who were not expected to survive the sea crossing,
but got out by plane, have compelling, horrific stories - and, in some cases,
machete scars as reminders of old vendettas that still could await them.

One can imagine the mental gymnastics of House members invoking
play-by-the-rules rhetoric against the amendment, so the more people who are
aware of this injustice, the better. Immigration officials recognize the flaw in
the law: Haitians could save themselves only by committing fraud to enter the
U.S., so they should be deported and face death. There's hardly a more
compelling case for when Congress should amend a law.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              262 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP HOUSE THROWS AN ILLEGAL BASH

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 673 words


House Republicans have released a "Statement of Principles" on immigration
reform that all but ensures there will be none any time soon.

The five-point statement comes from the same people who want to make felons of
nannies and farmworkers - the same people who believe it is theoretically
possible to deport 8 million to 9 million Mexicans with a theoretical line of
buses long enough to reach from San Diego to Chicago.

So much of the House Republicans' approach is theoretical, and what isn't is
mostly political. The party has been running on paranoia since 9/11, and
immigration is an issue ideally suited for pseudo-patriotic demagoguery and
us-vs.-them rants.

The Statement of Principles is really a Statement of Paranoid Pandering -- an
appeal to the base to close ranks and see if like-minded and like-pigmented
people can't find a way to make the country look like it did a few decades ago.

Rather than offer ideas, the House Republicans offer over-written bumper
stickers. Take a look:

- "Republicans strongly support initiatives to secure our borders and provide
additional resources to federal and state authorities to strengthen border
patrol efforts."

Who isn't for border control? But the United States has 9,500 miles of borders,
and as Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., puts it: "We can't secure the road from
Baghdad to the airport. How are we going to control our border?" Border security
is a pretext House Republicans use to obscure the hard question they cannot
answer: What do we do with the 12 million illegal immigrants who are already
here?

- "Republicans strongly support strengthening enforcement and stiffening
penalties for illegal immigrants who break our immigration laws."

Let's also have stiff penalties for people who are complicit in the breaking of
our immigration laws. Let's fine the homemaker at the supermarket for knowingly
buying tomatoes picked by illegal workers. Let's fine the restaurant diner for
knowingly eating off plates that an illegal washed. And let's arrest anyone
who's ignored our laws and had an illegal worker come to the house to cut the
grass or fix the roof.

- "Republicans support enforcing the law on employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants and holding them accountable."

Notice that the word strongly is omitted here. House Republicans want to enforce
the laws on employers, but not too much. Maybe the most hypocritical aspect of
U.S. immigration policy is the tacit pass given business to use all the illegal
labor it needs and treat workers any way it wants.

- "Republicans oppose efforts to reward the behavior of illegal immigrants who
have made the choice to break our laws."

Let's end the reward program. Let's give illegal immigrants what they deserve
and recruit them to fill the dirtiest, most dangerous, dead-end jobs none of us
wants and pay them minimum wages without benefits. Then, on their days off,
let's revile them as lazy lawbreakers who are ruining our country.

- "Republicans believe the success of our country depends on newcomers obeying
the law, assimilating into American society by learning English and embracing
our common identity as Americans."

Fear that our children will be exposed to foreign languages is sweeping the
nation. So is the fear that tax dollars might promote Spanish. Consider
Lawrenceville, Ga., a suburban Atlanta city of 22,000 people - one in six of
whom is Hispanic. The local library board recently voted to cut money for
Spanish books from the budget. Board members worried that some of the patrons
checking out those books just might be illegal immigrants.

But, where to stop? Some of the people using the roads just might be illegal
immigrants. Some of the people using the parks just might be. Can anyone
guarantee that the hand that flushes the toilet and taxes the sewer system
doesn't belong to an illegal immigrant?

Lawrenceville has a lot of budget-cutting to do. By the way, have you ever heard
how they speak English there?

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              263 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROUP WELCOMES IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


On her way home from work Saturday, Veronique Michel took a detour through the
community center that changed her life. The Haitian-born nurse's aide registered
to vote.

"When we vote we can change so many things," said Michel, 57, who lives in
Lantana. "That's why I want to vote."

The Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, known as ACORN,
opened the community center's doors to dozens of immigrants seeking information
on how to obtain citizenship. The grass-roots outreach was part of a kickoff for
"We are America," a national campaign to prepare legal-permanent residents for
citizenship and ultimately register them as voters. About 40 people attended.

"To be heard in this country you have to vote and you have to engage in civic
society," said Aileen Josephs, an immigration attorney in West Palm Beach. "We
are welcoming our new immigrants at a time when society is not so welcoming."

The Department of Homeland Security estimates there are about 8 million
legal-permanent residents eligible for citizenship who are living in the United
States. There are an estimated 360,000 such residents in Palm Beach County,
Josephs said. But the application process can be costly. The fee to file the
initial 10-page application runs about $500 per person, or up to $1,000 if
submitted through an attorney.

Organizers gave out referrals to nonprofit organizations that offer free or
reduced legal aid, including Catholic Charities and the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center. They also doled out information about language classes and
employment. In Jupiter, organizers held a similar event at St. Peter's Catholic
Church with about 60 participants. Town officials there also plan to open a
labor center this month.

Every Sunday, Phillipe "Bob" Louis Jeune, executive director of the Haitian
Citizen United Task Force, addresses a church with a Haitian congregation to
mobilize more people to vote.

"As long as they go out and vote they can kick out any politician against them,"
Jeune said. "There are too many fake politicians in Palm Beach County when it
comes to immigration."

Michel, who became a citizen three years ago, decided to register to vote before
the Fourth of July holiday. She will work that day but she doesn't mind. It's
another opportunity to affirm her freedom as an American, she said.

"It's better here than it is over there," Michel said.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer Jean Webber of Lake Worth finishes a sign
aimed at drawing immigrants into a Lake Worth community center on Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              264 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GATEWAY TO THE AMERICAN DREAM;
BUSINESSES GUIDE IMMIGRANTS ALONG THE PATH TO CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By SCOTT CENDROWSKI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


It doesn't look much like the gateway to the American Dream: A small, windowless
office on 10th Avenue where an international driver license advertisement hangs
on the wall.

Behind her desk, Cristina Perez-Leon has light tones of red in her hair, and is
wearing gold hoop earrings and a heart necklace.

But to customers, she might as well be Uncle Sam, dressed in flag pants, blue
blazer and star-spangled top hat.

Perez-Leon is the owner of Latino Multi-Services, a business that helps mostly
Hispanic customers fill out their U.S. citizenship applications and translate
documents - such as birth certificates and divorce filings - into English.
Latino Multi-Services is part of a niche of businesses and nonprofits that help
immigrants navigate the bureaucracy of American citizenship, a process that can
take nine months to a year.

"Even people who understand the language want me to help because they want to do
it without messing up," said Perez-Leon, a native of the Dominican Republic.

Silvia Mendez of Greenacres, an English-speaking immigrant from Mexico, paid
about $400 for official immigration documents from the government, and an
additional $150 for help from Perez-Leon a month ago because she didn't want to
make a mistake.

"I went because I didn't want to commit an error and lose money," Mendez, 26,
said. "The business is helpful to people who need help in understanding the laws
of immigration."

And Blanca Rodriguez of Lake Worth paid $35 for Perez-Leon to translate her
Dominican Republic documents to English.

She moved to the United States 11 years ago and applied for citizenship in
February.

"If you don't know the language, it's hard because there can be lots of
questions," Rodriguez said.

Clemencia Ortiz, executive director of the nonprofit Latin American Immigrant
and Organization Inc., or LAIRO, in West Palm Beach, said the process of gaining
citizenship can be risky for immigrants in South Florida because a wrongly filed
document or a blip on an immigrant's record can result in a revoked visa or
deportation.

And, she said, there are many businesses near Miami and extending into Palm
Beach County that scam immigrants with the wrong documents and materials.

But she stressed the importance of citizenship, which gives more freedom to
travel outside the United States, federal job benefits and the right to vote.

"We're educating them that it's a little different in this country," Ortiz said,
adding that LAIRO expects to help 25 to 50 immigrants this year apply for
citizenship.

Carola Villavicencio, who works at LAIRO, is using a $25,000 grant the nonprofit
received this year to help immigrants submit the correct citizenship documents.

"What is surprising is that most have 10 years of permanent residence and
haven't applied," she said.

Roody Barthelemy of Royal Palm Beach was one of those.

He moved to Florida from Haiti 17 years ago, but applied for citizenship only
last July.

A sense of Haitian nationalism, he said, kept him from applying.

But Barthelemy changed his mind partly because five years ago he was unable to
apply for college grants that required citizenship.

"After 17 years, looking back at the investment that I have made in the (United
States) as an immigrant - in time and taxes, you name it - I realized that it is
more than natural to have become part of this country," said Barthelemy, 44, who
became a citizen in April.

Richard Hujber is one of the many South Florida immigration lawyers who assist
would-be citizens.

The son of Hungarian immigrants, Hujber, whose office is in Boca Raton, worked
in the immigration courts of the U.S. Department of Justice before opening his
own practice last year.

Hujber, 35, said his work changed from drafting denials to the opposite.

Last week, he said, he argued for a Venezuelan family's right to political
asylum, and won.

"I love what I do. I think I'm the only one in my group of lawyer friends who
can say that," Hujber joked.

Hujber takes about 60 to 80 citizenship cases a year, for which he charges from
$1,500 to $5,000.

In addition to referrals, he says he gets plenty of satisfaction from helping
people become Americans.

"They jump in your arms, they send you cards," Hujber said. "Then from there
they send you everything."

La Palma staff writer Jacqueline Martell contributed to this story.

- scott_cendrowski@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Cristina Perez-Leon, owner of Latino
Multi-Services in Lake Worth, helps Alex Kirkland with a job application form
Monday. The business helps customers fill out U.S. citizenship applications and
translate documents into English.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              265 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WILL LEGAL IMMIGRANTS ROCK THE VOTE?

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 743 words


The most intriguing statement so far about how the 2008 elections are shaping up
has come from the Department of Homeland Security, of all places.

According to the department's statisticians, about 12.4 million legal immigrants
are eligible to become citizens and then become voters two years from now. This
includes holders of green cards and immigrant children who gained citizenship by
birth in the United States.

Americans have been paying so much attention to illegal immigrants that they
have neglected to take proper notice of the untapped power of legal immigrants.
It turns out that there's a lot of it.

Take that number 12.4 million. It represents 10.5 percent of all the votes cast
in the 2004 national election -- and where these potential voters live is
significant in itself.

According to research by the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, there are 16 states where the number of eligible immigrant voters totals
more than the vote differential between George Bush and John Kerry. This number
includes Florida and 10 other swing states, among them Arizona, Colorado,
Nevada, Michigan and Ohio, which the president carried by about 120,000 votes.
Had Sen. Kerry won Ohio, he would be president.

From green card to voter card

The number of potential new immigrant voters in Florida is estimated at 945,200;
Mr. Bush's margin of victory here two years ago was 380,987. It doesn't take an
FCAT genius to look at these numbers and figure out whose votes could decide
another close race.

But the critical question, of course, is whether two years from now this power
will be real or merely theoretical. As a voting bloc, documented immigrants are
still a work in progress, with no guarantees of completion.

The distance between a green card and a voter registration card is filled with
bureaucratic obstacles, not the least of which is a $400 application fee and
perhaps $600 if an attorney's help is necessary. The critical unknown number is
how many eligible immigrants -- what percentage of the 12.4 million -- are
willing to do what it takes to participate in U.S. democracy.

The congressional debate over immigration reform appears to have fueled a surge
in citizenship applications. A backlash against the House bill that would make
illegal immigrants felons has touched off more than rallies in the streets.
Dozens of events across the country are scheduled to promote citizenship and
voter registration.

The Department of Homeland Security reports that it received more than 185,000
citizenship applications between January and March, up 19 percent from the same
period last year. Internet inquiries have risen meteorically. The U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Web site recorded 6.6 million hits in March, a
record. Downloads of applications in May almost doubled over a year ago.

This area didn't follow the nation

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus made July 1 "National Citizenship Day" and, in
Los Angeles, close to 3,000 immigrants stood in line for hours to fill out
citizenship papers. Similar registration events throughout the country had much
smaller turnouts. In Jupiter and Lake Worth, where many illegal immigrants
gather each morning to find work, only several dozen legal immigrants applied.

Organizers of the campaign say that the number of immigrants eligible for
citizenship in Palm Beach County may be as high as 360,000. So, where was
everybody July 1?

There is no shortage of theories among organizers. Some believe that three
hurricanes in two years have left many eligible immigrants strapped for the cash
to apply. Others believe that Palm Beach County's immigrant population is more
transient than in most places, and a moving target is hard to organize. Another
theory is that the range of ethnic diversity complicates getting the message
out. Beyond Spanish, exactly how do you make a compelling pitch for citizenship
in Haitian creole and Mayan Kanjobal, or, for that matter, Mayan Mam?

In Florida, there are an estimated 224,000 children of immigrants who have
citizenship rights by birth. All they have to do is show up and ask to become
citizens. All they have to do is register to vote. All they have to do is show
up at the polls. If they do all that, maybe immigrants could sway an election.

Until it happens, the numbers will be intriguing but nothing else.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com. Randy Schultz's column will return next week.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              266 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 10, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION DEBATE FORGETS ROOTS OF MANY AMERICANS

BYLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 225 words


As I sat and experienced a wonderful display of fireworks, patriotic music and
American nostalgia this Fourth of July evening, the music turned to Neil
Diamond's Coming to America. The images of people from around the world flocking
to this land, seeking a free and better life, led my thoughts to my grandfather
who stowed away on a boat from Greece a century ago and found his way to
America. He came to this land illegally yet fought in World War I and built a
simple life for himself. Man, did he love and was he ever proud of this country.

I wonder how many of us have those same illegal, simple, peasant roots? How many
of us owe our station in life to an ancestor who dared to brave all and found
his or her way to this country against all odds and authority?

We should consider this, as so many of us are quick to vilify and condemn those
who seek a decent and better life today, defying those same odds and authority.

It is understood that we cannot have uncontrolled immigration, but let us tread
lightly on the spirit of those who are trying to attain that which we have. Let
us not forget that we are all immigrant stock, and, above all, we as Americans
must not defile the memories of our ancestors by allowing this current
xenophobic wave to distract us from the true issues and dangers that face our
nation today.

RORY G. DOLANDIS

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              267 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FIND BALANCE ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 234 words


Ruben Navarrette's July 3 column, "I'm an American, and not just because"
unfairly portrays those who want to place any limits on immigration as "racist"
and "xenophobic." But there are legitimate reasons for sensible and fair
citizens to call for guidelines for our immigration process.

No one can deny that immigrants benefit society by meeting our labor needs in
many critical areas. However, these numerous arrivals also bring costs. More
people means more housing, and as our population increases, we must clear fields
and forests to build more homes and apartment buildings. The effect is
overcrowding, sprawl, traffic congestion, and loss of wilderness and open space.
We cannot admit, in Mr. Navarrette's words, "as many as possible."

The appropriate action is to balance our conflicting needs of filling job
vacancies and fueling the economy with managing growth, protecting the
environment and maintaining our quality of life. The question should not be
whether immigrants are good or bad for the country. It should be what level of
immigration is most desirable for our nation.

The U.S. population will soon reach 300 million. We must set a limit on how many
people immigrate to the United States with a particular focus on illegal
immigration. We can do so and still be a welcoming nation. It is our right as
American citizens to decide the terms of our immigration process.

DAVID SIMMS

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              268 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PASS PUNK PROTECTION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 262 words


Criminals still look at Guatemalans and see soft targets for violent attacks,
despite efforts to protect and educate the immigrants on how to avoid becoming
victims.

Two incidents last week in West Palm Beach make it clear that Guatemalans are
vulnerable even during daylight and on the job. On Wednesday, 11 young punks,
armed with a BB gun, beat and robbed three Guatemalan landscapers as they worked
near Caribbean Boulevard and Haverhill Road. The group stole about $300 and an
ID card. Police arrested two 14-year-olds and a 17-year-old and are looking for
the others. On Friday, two armed assailants jumped out of a car and demanded
money from two Guatemalans on Pinewood Avenue. Pedro Reymundo was shot in the
back, and Domingo Sedio was pistol-whipped. Police have made no arrests.

Similar crimes against Guatemalans have spread throughout South Florida. In
August, a man was murdered in Fort Pierce. Most Guatemalan victims are Mayans
who don't report crimes because they are here illegally and fear deportation.
They also are reluctant to use banks. Criminals expect that Mayans carry money
and often are fluent only in indigenous languages.

West Palm Beach police and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office have held
clinics to help Guatemalans get ID cards and open bank accounts. Outreach
programs have tried to improve communications with law enforcement. But until
Congress passes immigration reform that gives Guatemalans a chance at legal
status and legitimacy, a failed federal policy will leave them vulnerable in the
shadows where criminals troll for victims.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              269 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HARRIS SAYS VIEWS GROUNDED IN FAITH

BYLINE: By SANDRA HONG Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: STUART


Before the Sunday service at a church near downtown, U.S. Senate hopeful and
Republican U.S. Rep. Katherine Harris gave brief but pointed comments on issues
including immigration, abortion and gay marriage.

Appealing to about 200 at First Baptist Church, Harris said her views were
rooted in what she described as the country's Christian origins and principles.

Harris, flanked by two large American flags, spoke mostly about immigration,
from which she drew parallels to the current fighting between Israeli troops and
the Hezbollah militia.

"Israel is fighting a global war, a global enemy, its terrorists, on all of our
behalf," Harris said, adding that the United States must take aggressive steps
to tighten its own borders to block terrorists.

"We hear of Middle Easterners - they could be fundamental extremists - taking
Hispanic names and coming into our country. We do not know where they are. This
is a matter of great national security," she said.

Harris acknowledged that recent immigrants were a vital engine of Florida's
economy, but said that workers "must be legal, temporary and have an
identification that is secure and cannot be replicated."

Harris, of Longboat Key, near Sarasota, also made appearances Saturday in Stuart
and Port St. Lucie, seeking support for her Senate bid. Polls show her trailing
Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson by more than 30 points.

Three other Republican candidates will be on the Sept. 5 primary ballot: Will
McBride, a lawyer from Orange County, Peter Monroe, a Pinellas County developer,
and Adm. LeRoy Collins Jr., a retired naval officer.

Harris' church visit Sunday was at the invitation of First Baptist's pastor,
Darrell Orman, who described it as a chance for Harris to "share her testimony"
with the church.

Harris assured the audience that "there are many people who care deeply about
the Lord that are your elected officials."

Just as the authors of the Constitution looked to the Bible for guidance, so
should government today, she said.

"They believed if they had a government according to the Bible, that we would be
a nation blessed," she said. "But there has been so much confusion on this
church vs. state - it was never intended as it has become, as it has been
allowed by politically correct people who want to change the course of western
civilization."

Harris said her firm opposition to gay marriage was affirmation of her Christian
faith and one that "very much distinguishes me" from incumbent Nelson.

She also pointed to her "100 percent voting record" against abortion, including
support for the parental-consent law and the ban against the "heinous" procedure
of "partial-birth" abortion.

sandra_hong@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Katherine Harris: Says immigrants vital to state's economy, but must be 'legal,
temporary.' (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              270 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INVESTMENT SCAM TARGETS POOR HAITIANS

BYLINE: By ALLYSON BIRD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1569 words


When Rod Petit works 14-hour days loading shingles onto a delivery truck, he
thinks of his two daughters back in Haiti: the 11-year-old, and the 19-year-old
who's not his little girl anymore.

"She already made two babies because we are not there," Petit said.

His desire to bring his daughters to Vero Beach with the rest of his family made
Petit a likely target for an investment deal that promised monthly dividends and
faster immigration, but appears to have produced neither. The deal was promoted
directly to the Haitian immigrant community - people with little money, some of
whom are not citizens.

Petit saved $3,500 and expected 10 percent of the investment back each month.
Talking about it now, he sounds frustrated.

"We did something stupid," he said. "We're supposed to know better."

Those close to the situation think 50 or more people from Vero Beach to Miami
Beach might have fallen victim to an investment deal that used Haitian radio
programs to pique immigrants' interest. And two Broward County court cases
reveal that the investment deal attracted Spanish-speaking people as well.

Local authorities acknowledge that these investment fraud complaints exist but
won't comment on them because federal officials are investigating.

Del Alvarez, an inspector with the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, said the
investigation is open but that he cannot comment on it. The Postal Inspection
Service places priority on mail fraud scams specifically related to investments,
its Web site says, "especially when they target the elderly or other susceptible
groups." But with victims dating back two years, no arrests have been made in
this case.

Vero Beach immigration attorney Jim Benincasa first heard about "Immigration
Through Investment" in the summer of 2004 from a Haitian client who hoped to
bring his family together. Benincasa warned him that investing in real estate
couldn't get you a visa in 90 days and a green card in six months.

"I could tell he didn't want to hear that, that he wanted to believe," Benincasa
said.

Benincasa went with the man to see Tamara Voltaire, who made radio announcements
for the investment deal. She worked in Fort Pierce at the time but had been
arrested on a charge of organized fraud months earlier in Miami.

Voltaire said in a telephone conversation that her affiliation with "Immigration
to Investment" did not go beyond promoting it among Haitian clients in her old
accounting office, Multiethnic Travel Agency.

"That is not my program," she said. "I spoke Creole. I just translated the
program."

She said a man named Cy Georgalis ran "Immigration to Investment" and that
Wilson Santana was president of the company behind it, IREA of North Miami.
Neither Georgalis nor Santana could be reached for comment.

Georgalis was described in Aventura Magazine, a South Florida luxury magazine,
in 2003 as an experienced real estate investor who helps the homeless. Georgalis
said in the profile that the greatest lesson he has learned in life is "be
humble," and that the phrase he wishes he heard more often is "thank you."

In one document that Benincasa copied from another IREA client, a "comments"
section explained that Voltaire's oldest child, an adult himself, did not
qualify for her benefits. The comments continued: "Cy advised client that a
deposit of $15,000 was needed."

Georgalis' name appears on several documents given to clients, as do Voltaire's
initials. Her card is attached to one client's cover sheet for "a total
investment package" promising to "build wealth . . . within one year."

According to one "Immigration to Investment" client's paperwork, the investment
process began with a meeting with representatives from IREA and another company
called the Multi Ethnic Group. The papers say IREA will pay 10 percent dividends
on the $3,500 each month with "the option of receiving the funds personally,
forwarding the funds to Haiti or leaving the funds with the Corporation to grow
the investment."

Benincasa said Voltaire explained that investors in undeveloped South Florida
property also would receive access to immigration lawyers who would file for
clients to get work authorization and then green cards.

One memo given to a couple asks them to provide documents such as birth
certificates, school forms, marriage certificates and divorce decrees in order
for IREA to "submit the package to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services."

"The law just doesn't provide for that," Benincasa said.

Since then, 14 Haitians have come to his office seeking help for money allegedly
lost to the IREA investment. One of them was the man he first accompanied.

"That's how desperate they are," Benincasa said. He got calls from New York and
New Jersey from Haitians who invested after hearing about the program from
family members in South Florida.

Abner Belmont - known to his Fort Pierce-Vero Beach audience as DJ Ab, "the
Haitian Sensation" - welcomed Voltaire to his Haitian music and talk show on
WJFP 91.1-FM several times over the past few years. In January, he told her not
to return.

"She's good when she's talking about that program," he said. "I feel really bad
about it because they're really poor people. They try hard to get the money."

But the bad news came quickly.

A form to one client dated Oct. 15, 2004, explains that IREA delayed "processing
legal work" because of disastrous weather.

"The delay is due to Immigration and Naturalization Services," the letter
continues, though INS ceased to exist in 2003 when its functions became a part
of the Department of Homeland Security.

Another letter dated Nov. 24, 2004, reads: "The funding of $100,000,000 that was
anticipated for this project has been delayed."

State records show that Voltaire, 32, was arrested by Metro-Dade police on
unrelated charges in Miami in March 2004: four counts of first-degree grand
theft, three counts of fraudulent use of credit cards, one count of swindling
and one count of fraudulent ID use and possession.

A representative from the Miami-Dade State Attorney's Office said Voltaire
prepared tax returns in Miami-Dade County and then used customers' personal
information to open and use credit lines. The representative said Voltaire also
allegedly used customers' information to pay personal mortgages.

Voltaire's trial in Miami is set for Sept. 5.

Though local authorities have only four reports linking her to the investment
deal, they also have three police reports on her old tax business in Fort
Pierce.

In Broward County, two lawsuits indicate that IREA advertised to the
Spanish-speaking community as well.

One civil lawsuit said a husband and wife team of developers got involved with
IREA after seeing a Spanish advertisement in El Nuevo Herald for a "foreign
investment program, where the investment not only obtained a 25 percent return .
. . but also obtained assistance in procuring immigration visas, tax
consultation and many other services."

They paid $175,000 in 2003, but alleged that the property was never transferred
to them. Their 2004 case was dismissed in 2005.

In a second Broward civil suit, a single mother sued IREA, Georgalis and another
IREA agent, alleging she made a $350,000 investment "but never received any
confirmation the properties were actually purchased."

"The investment program in which (she) invested the funds was a sham and no
property has ever been purchased," the suit continues.

The second IREA agent named in the lawsuit filed a complaint against Fort
Lauderdale immigration attorney Larry Behar, who was named one of the 100 most
powerful people in South Florida by South Florida CEO in 2004. The complaint
alleged that Behar advertised for IREA and, specifically with this case, took
the investor's money without providing legal services. The allegations were
later dismissed.

Behar would not comment on the case but said he had never been involved with the
investment deal. Asked if IREA or its representatives fraudulently used his
name, he said that was "on the right track."

The single mom's case against IREA remains open.

But in St. Lucie and Indian River counties, the Haitians who have come to
immigration attorney Benincasa can't afford legal fees after losing thousands of
dollars in investments.

He is not representing them in a lawsuit. He asked the Florida Bar to intervene
but eventually received word that the case had been closed because it is a
federal investigation.

Benincasa still instructs Haitians to file police reports, though he says his
advice is often futile because people in the country illegally tend to avoid
police.

Advocates for immigrants said what keeps them from asking for help is what made
them easy targets to begin with.

Staff writer Dianna Smith and staff researchers Michelle Quigley and Amy Hanaway
contributed to this report.

allyson_bird@pbpost.com

How 'Immigration to Investment' worked

IREA touted itself as 'the company with vast amounts of expertise in the South
Florida market and the wide range of services especially tailored to the foreign
investor.' It promised 10 percent monthly returns to investors and access to
immigration lawyers who would file for work authorization and then green cards.
The IREA process:

- Researches and presents a listing of properties with high return on investment
potential.

- Buys the properties on behalf of the investors, but the properties are kept
under the investor's business name.

- Renovates the property.

- Sells the property at the 'highest market value.'

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Larry Behar (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              271 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE CHECKS DETAINED TEENAGERS FOR CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 657 words


Florida has started screening every teenager at state detention centers to weed
out those who might be in the country illegally.

The Department of Juvenile Justice will keep a database of juvenile offenders
who are not citizens and will refer suspect names to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement for possible deportation.

About 95,000 juveniles are arrested each year in Florida for crimes ranging from
petty vandalism or fights with siblings to serious offenses like rape and
manslaughter. Most are released to their parents, but those who have felony
charges, repeat arrests or a history of running away are sent to one of
Florida's 26 juvenile detention centers to wait for trial or a spot in a
longer-term residential program.

The state will limit its immigration checks to about 34,000 teens who are
committed to its detention centers each year, state juvenile justice spokeswoman
Cynthia Lorenzo said.

Last week, state employees began running names of all detained teens against a
federal database at the Law Enforcement Support Center, which holds information
from the Department of Homeland Security, the National Crime Information Center
and state agencies across the country. The department soon will hire a full-time
employee to make the checks.

State Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, included $48,915 in Florida's budget to
pay the salary of the employee. Aronberg said he hoped to prevent cases like
that of Milagro Cunningham, who is charged with sexually assaulting an
8-year-old girl from Lake Worth and leaving her in a landfill to die.

Cunningham was here on an expired visa from the Bahamas but had not been
deported despite previous juvenile arrests for burglary.

Until this month, state efforts to check the citizenship of juvenile offenders
were less comprehensive. Department of Juvenile Justice probation officers, who
help process teens dropped off by police, asked each youth whether he or she was
a citizen. Children who said yes were assumed to be telling the truth.

Those who admitted they were not citizens, or were flagged by police as possibly
being here illegally, were reported to immigration authorities, Lorenzo said.

In the last legislative session, state Rep. Bruce Antone, D-Orlando, and Sen.
Mandy Dawson, D-Fort Lauderdale, filed bills that called for more sweeping
changes. The first versions of both bills required circuit juvenile court judges
to order the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice to turn over custody of
offenders here illegally to federal authorities.

But only the federal government has the authority to deport, and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement does not have the resources to accept most
of the children referred by the state. The agency typically focuses on suspected
terrorists and adult criminals.

A staff analysis for Antone's bill said state Department of Juvenile Justice
employees who tried to report teens they believed were in the United States
illegally did not get return phone calls from ICE despite leaving detailed
messages.

"When a person does answer the call, the response is 'frequently that
delinquents are not a high priority,' " the analysis said.

Both bills died in committee.

Some have criticized the plan to screen every detained teen, saying it is a
hollow political move meant to capitalize on anti-immigrant feelings.

Carlos Martinez, chief assistant public defender for Miami-Dade County, said
many arrests of children are made in public schools. Not all teens sent to
detention centers are threats to public safety, he said, and it is unclear what
good screens will do "when all are admitting the Department of Homeland Security
will do nothing with the information."

Aronberg said he hopes a new employee focused on the issue will prompt state and
federal governments to begin working together to deport the most serious young
criminals.

"I think there will be a lot more referrals and a lot more action taken,"
Aronberg said.

kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              272 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN WOMAN FOUND DEAD NEAR SHORE

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 858 words

DATELINE: TEQUESTA


A Haitian woman was found dead near the shores of Coral Cove Park on Wednesday
morning after spending five days crossing the Atlantic Ocean with the help of
smugglers.

Now officials from the Palm Beach County violent crimes task force are treating
her drowning as a homicide.

The woman, believed to be in her late teens or early 20s, was one of at least
nine immigrants who attempted to reach Florida by boat, authorities said. They
are not sure whether any others are missing.

In addition to the woman, the group included seven men, including a Bahamian and
a 16-year-old boy, a Border Patrol official said. The smugglers got away.

Group members told authorities they boarded the boat Friday night and were told
by the two-person crew not to leave the cabin during the trip. One fuel stop was
made, possibly in the Bahamas.

The woman was discovered after Jupiter Island police found two men at about 2
a.m., wet and walking on Beach Road.

They reported the men to the Border Patrol, which had eight people in custody
less than 12 hours later, patrol agent Robert Swathwood said. The names of the
woman and those in custody have not been released.

The immigrants told officials the boat stopped 25 to 50 yards offshore just
south of the Palm Beach-Martin county line when the captain ordered the
passengers off the vessel, Palm Beach County sheriff's spokesman Sgt. Pete
Palenzuela said.

"They were still a good distance from shore. They ordered the people to come out
of the cabin and to jump in the water to make their way into shore," Palenzuela
said.

"Some people jumped in the water; there were others that refused. So the crew of
this boat, probably a captain and a crew mate, pushed several people into the
water."

According to witnesses, the woman was among those pushed into the water. An
autopsy is scheduled for today.

It was not known how many people, some of whom paid up to $2,500 to be smuggled
into the United States, boarded the boat.

"We have different stories from different subjects," Swathwood said of the
passenger count. "We just go out there and apprehend who we can."

Jupiter Island police made another discovery believed to be connected to the
smuggling incident. Officers found three packages of cocaine weighing a kilogram
each. They were wrapped in plastic and appeared water-tight.

One was found on the beach not far from a pile of clothing and life jackets
north of the Blowing Rocks Nature Preserve. Two more were in the surf north of
that area.

Police Chief William Mason said customs officials found 6 kilograms in a bag
carried by a man who was found hiding in the woods.

Mason said flat seas and a bright moon made for good conditions for a crossing
from the Bahamas.

"The weather and everything was just ideal," he said. "We'll be seeing more
(immigrants), I'm sure."

This isn't the first time tragedy has struck in midnight voyages to the U.S. In
1998, a man and a woman drowned after at least 34 Haitians were dropped off on a
sandbar 100 yards from the Jupiter Inlet.

Two years later, 288 Haitians were rescued from a shipwreck about 250 miles from
home. Seventeen people died in their journey toward Florida.

The immigrants found Wednesday will be held at either the Broward Transition
Center in Deerfield Beach or Krome Detention Center west of Miami, Swathwood
said.

Immigration hearings will determine whether they will have to go back to Haiti.

Under federal law, Haitians caught making the trip to the U.S. are usually
repatriated, whether or not they make landfall.

"They all come here for a better life," Swathwood said. "There's a lot of
turmoil in Haiti right now. People are dying, people are getting killed. It's
all kinds of things."

Refugee drownings since 2002

May 2002

Fifteen Haitian immigrants were missing after their boat capsized off the
Bahamas; 13 drowned and 73 were rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard. It is not known
how many were aboard the capsized vessel.

August 2002

A 40-foot boat carrying 39 refugees ran out of gas off Jupiter Island, prompting
many to swim to shore. Two were missing.

April 2003

A boat capsized off the Dominican Republic with more than 100 Haitians aboard.
At least 16 people were missing and four were known to have died. Survivors said
there were 111 people aboard when they hit a reef.

September 2005

A black male in his early teens drowned off Palm Beach Shores. Investigators
said he may have been attempting to migrate to the U.S. amid 4- to 6-foot ocean
swells.

November 2005

A woman got off a smugglers' boat and tried to swim to shore in Manalapan. A
police officer discovered her body in the surf around 2:30 a.m. The woman had
arrived with at least 18 other Haitian immigrants, who were caught and detained.

November 2005

The bodies of three Haitian women washed ashore in Pompano Beach. At least a
dozen other people who arrived with them were caught and detained.

April 2006

Rolnique Metayer, 35, of Haiti died when a boat capsized about 25 miles off
Pompano Beach. Two others were believed to have been swept away. George Rolle, a
Bahamian, was indicted on five smuggling counts.

Staff writer Jill Taylor and staff researcher Melanie Mena contributed to this
story.

ana_ceron@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Police found several plastic-wrapped
kilos of suspected cocaine believed connected to immigrant smuggling and cut one
open to test its contents. 2. (B&W) A Martin County Sheriff's Office helicopter
joined the search for Haitian immigrants and kilos of cocaine Wednesday morning.
Officials are still not sure if any people are missing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP PRIMARY SENATE HOPEFULS CLASH OVER IMMIGRATION STANCE

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 756 words


Republican U.S. Senate hopeful Peter Monroe has called on Will McBride, the only
candidate in the four-way race with Hispanic heritage, to explain his position
on immigration.

Monroe's questions stem from McBride's participation in an April rally in Tampa
protesting pending congressional immigration bills.

It's the second time in the past two weeks that McBride's Hispanic heritage and
ties to the immigrant community have surfaced in the Senate campaign. Last week,
a woman who said she was acting at the suggestion of U.S. Rep. Katherine Harris'
campaign staff asked McBride whether he had changed his name from Rodriguez.
Harris has denied her campaign was involved in the question.

McBride said the attacks on him "show that I'm the one to beat," in the Sept. 5
primary that also includes LeRoy Collins Jr.

Monroe, a real estate developer from Pinellas County, questioned McBride's
position on immigration reform Tuesday night at a meeting of the Hillsborough
County Republican Executive Committee.

Monroe released a photograph of McBride leading marchers at the April 10 rally
in Tampa protesting tough anti-immigration bills pending in the House and
Senate. The photo was originally published in the Spanish-language newspaper La
Prensa, which said McBride "headed the parade."

Monroe said McBride was trying to appear sympathetic to immigrants while
espousing a tough stance against illegal immigration. Monroe also ridiculed
McBride's suggestion that illegal immigrants have been the victims of
"employment entrapment" by lax border controls that encourage foreign workers to
come to the United States.

Monroe supports a fence along the Mexican border and a portion of the Canadian
border and the deportation of illegal immigrants.

McBride said he was not an organizer or leader of the march, although the photo
shows him in front of a group of marchers helping to hold a banner for the group
Immigrants United for Freedom.

Lurvina Lizardo of Tampa, president of Honduran Unity and a member of Immigrants
United for Freedom, said she invited McBride to participate in the march and
speak to the crowd and news media.

McBride, an Orange County attorney whose paternal grandmother was Mexican and
whose maternal grandmother was Dominican, said he participated in the rally
because his Mexican-born father is a minister of a predominantly Hispanic
church.

Asked about some of Monroe's immigration questions, McBride said he supports
deporting illegal immigrants if they have had a "due process" hearing to
determine their status. He noted that some immigrants - such as those from Cuba
and Venezuela - may enter the country illegally but are allowed to remain. He
said he opposes the current "catch and release" policy in which illegal
immigrants are asked to return for a hearing at a future date.

"If someone can convince me that a 700-mile wall would be effective and
cost-effective, I'd support it," McBride said.

McBride also said he would support legislation to force illegal immigrants to
return to a foreign port or their country of origin for a brief time before they
could apply for legal immigration, but he said current waits of six years or
more discourage illegal immigrants from voluntarily returning.

Monroe said his questions were not aimed at McBride's Hispanic heritage and said
he thought the question by a Harris supporter about whether McBride changed his
name was "reprehensible."

But Monroe said he considers McBride's oft-repeated comment that he can campaign
equally well in English and in Spanish "equally reprehensible. He is saying, 'I
speak Spanish, therefore I control the Hispanic vote.' "

Harris, a two-term congresswoman from Longboat Key, and Collins, a retired
two-star Navy admiral from Tampa, also have called for tougher immigration
enforcement.

Harris voted for the House immigration bill last December, but said she opposes
provisions in the bill that would make it a felony to be an illegal immigrant or
to provide assistance to an illegal immigrant. Harris has said the United States
needs a robust guest worker program to provide workers to such industries as
agriculture, tourism and construction, but she said the U.S. should use
high-tech identification procedures to ensure that workers have legal status.

Collins has also called for the use of high-tech surveillance techniques to stem
illegal immigration. He has said illegal immigrants must comply with existing
laws to obtain work credentials or qualify for citizenship. He said those who
remain here illegally should be deported.

- larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2006 Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Peter Monroe (left), McBride: Immigration bill protest is focal point. (mug)
2. Will McBride (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                  WEST EDITION

FEEDING IMMIGRANTS TO THE GOP BEAST

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 747 words


If you still have Friday's paper, take a look at the photo on Page 6A. If you
don't, try to remember how "Kenny Boy" Lay looked the last time he walked out of
a courthouse.

That was the expression on the face of U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort
Lauderdale, as he got into his car and prepared to leave Lake Worth City Hall on
Thursday.

Behind him was a group of placard-carrying protesters who jeered him and called
him a racist. Rep. Shaw is no racist. But he is part of the House Republicans'
demagoguery tour barnstorming its way across the country.

GOP leaders have scheduled dozens of hearings in at least 13 states during the
August recess to promote a House immigration bill that is so sublimely draconian
it has no measurable support in the Senate or the White House.

The House Republicans' idea of immigration reform was to make all illegal
immigrants felons and to consider people who help them criminally liable. So
think about that prospect the next time you donate clothes to Goodwill or
contribute to the local soup kitchen. The GOP believes that you are aiding and
abetting the felonious behavior of tomato pickers and nannies. Rep. Shaw and the
boys think you should give up peaceably and turn yourselves in.

Of course, these provisions and others in the bill would be too absurd to leave
a mark in the real world, were it not for the vigilantes, extremists and GOP
team players such as Rep. Shaw who are stimulated by the political bombast of it
all. The House bill never will go anywhere as it is, but it might just inflame
the base enough to turn out en masse for the November elections.

You can't run a country on demagoguery, but you probably can steer it for a
while if you're not particular about whom you run over.

The barnstorming, brainstorming House Republicans hope that staging political
theater in places such as Plano, Texas, Dubuque, Iowa, and Lake Worth will
muster opposition to a Senate bill that is so liberal it does not consider
busboys felons.

These hearings and faux town-hall meetings are so ridiculously contrived, it is
as if they were scripted by Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, or immigration
hawk Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., -- which is essentially the case.

Take Thursday's gig with Clay Shaw, for example. It was to be a strictly
controlled two-hour session. Only approved speakers would be invited, and their
comments would be limited. No questions from the public would be accepted. In
fact, they preferred that the public not even show up. The session was supposed
to be publicized only enough to satisfy minimum notice requirements. Interested
parties were allowed to submit written comments, if interested parties were
willing to waste their time.

So Rep. Shaw went to Lake Worth. He brought Rep. Phil English, R-Pa., with him.
Their mission was to collect immigrant-felon stories and take them back to
Washington to feed the GOP beast.

But, due to a production mishap, they'll not have much to take back. Producers
invited the wrong panelists: Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw, Schools
Superintendent Art Johnson, Lake Worth Mayor Mark Drautz and Jupiter Town
Manager Andy Lukasik.

These four departed from the script and gave a disappointing performance that
approached the immigration problem from a rational, apolitical, honest
perspective. The GOP sought angry bombast but got insight instead. What will
they ever do with that?

Rep. Shaw invited the Palm Beach County officials to pile on, but they wouldn't
have it. Is illegal immigration a problem? Of course. Do we want secure borders?
Of course. But the people on the front lines of the issue have much more to say.

Sheriff Bradshaw called illegal immigrants a "legitimate workforce" that fills
jobs Americans don't want. Mayor Drautz talked about the culpability of U.S.
employers who exploit foreign workers and how illegal immigrants are most often
crime victims, not criminals. Mr. Lukasik talked about his town's center for day
laborers. Mr. Johnson refused to whine about the growing numbers of immigrants
in his schools: He said his job was to "educate the children in front of me," no
matter who they are.

Once again, it's apparent that the wisdom to achieve true immigration reform is
found within local communities, not in Washington.

Messrs Bradshaw, Drautz, Lukasik and Johnson had no trouble getting to their
cars. Check the photo to see how Rep. Shaw left.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SMITH CALLS FOR FAIRER IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: By ROBERT P. KING Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Haitians and Cubans should receive equal treatment when fleeing oppression,
gubernatorial candidate Rod Smith told a Haitian-American audience Saturday,
taking on an issue that is out of the hands of Florida's governor.

"No policy can be fair that says to one community the standards are different
than another community," the Democratic state senator from Alachua told more
than 40 people during a half-day political forum at United Haitian Baptist
Church. "And I promise you this: In our immigration policy, in our policy of
reaching out with inclusion, there will be no differences between people who
came here, who came here because of enormous needs and because of bravery."

Disparities in immigration policy have long rankled Haitians, who complain that
the United States typically deports refugees from their country, while Cubans
who make it to U.S. soil can stay. But Smith acknowledged afterward that
Florida's governor has no control over federal immigration practices.

As governor, "you are the bully pulpit to represent the people of Florida on
that issue, and that I would do," he said.

On issues the governor can influence, Smith called for the state to stop using
scores on the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test to grade schools or as the
sole reason for keeping students from advancing. He said he opposes gay marriage
- drawing applause from some in the crowd - but supports civil unions.

Smith also pledged to reduce homeowners insurance premiums and criticized
Democratic rival Jim Davis' proposals for fixing a "loophole" between windstorm
and flood insurance policies. Smith was responding to 11-year-old Nathae Nkumbu,
a Jupiter Middle School student who asked detailed questions about homeowners'
travails in trying to collect on hurricane policies.

"Pretty good," Smith told him. "I was looking for a lieutenant governor."

Smith and Davis, a U.S. representative from Tampa, face off in Florida's Sept. 5
Democratic primary.

Davis did not attend Saturday's forum, but campaign volunteer Eric Brodie gave a
3-minute speech on his behalf. Brodie told the audience that Davis would not
pander to them on "cultural wedge issues" just because he was speaking in a
church.

"He knows that gay marriage does not affect your personal lives nearly as much
as the minimum wage does, as health care does," Brodie said. "Jim knows that
you're smarter than that."

bob_king@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Rod Smith (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 25, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TIGHT BORDERS TO CAUSE WORKER SQUEEZE, GROWERS WARNED

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: NORTH FORT MYERS


Florida farmers will have a tougher time finding migrant help this coming
season, and they will have to pay close attention to new laws protecting those
workers from pesticides, two industry officials told growers Thursday.

Increased immigration enforcement, bolstered by a recent $2.6 billion
appropriation, will affect the supply of agricultural workers, said Walter
Kates, director of labor relations for the Maitland-based Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Association.

Kates addressed attendees at the 15th Annual Citrus Expo, being held this week
at the Lee Civic Center. More than 1,600 people attended a seminar and trade
show Wednesday and Thursday.

"It will go from a stream to a trickle," Kates said of the number of workers
coming over the border from Mexico. "We will not have the number of workers as
in the past."

Workers typically move from agriculture to higher-paying jobs in construction
and other industries, Kates said, but new immigrants replenished the supply.

"We don't have that replenishment worker anymore. It will have a dramatic impact
on how we do business in the future," he said. "We are looking at a new day."

Kates said Congress is completely polarized on immigration issues. Legislators
were trying to reach a compromise this spring, but immigration-related protests
destroyed that effort, he said.

"Illegals went to the streets and flew the Mexican flag. That just about wiped
out the middle ground," Kates said. "People who had been sympathetic in the past
were not anymore."

Grove and nursery owners said that despite the tightening at the borders,
they're not too worried about obtaining workers this season.

Joe Himrod, who employs fewer than a dozen people at Himrod Citrus Nursery in
Hardee County, said most of his workers are year-round rather than seasonal.

"It's not just that there are fewer workers coming in. It's that more have gone
into construction following the hurricanes," Himrod said, referring to the
storms of 2004 and 2005.

Ben McLean, production manager at Uncle Matt's Organic in Clermont, said his
company contracts with a harvesting firm that provides the laborers.

"Why worry about it? We will figure it out when it's time to start harvesting,"
he said.

While organic growers don't have to deal with regulated pesticides since they
don't use them, other farmers need to make sure they comply with worker
protection and safety standards dealing with all chemicals, said Mike Aerts,
assistant director of environmental and pest management at the Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Association.

"Agricultural worker protection has become a hot-button issue," Aerts told the
growers. "This has great attention from the Florida Legislature. The industry
needs to pay closer attention to the details."

The legislature recently approved $730,000 in additional funding for the Florida
Department of Agriculture to hire eight more field inspectors and two
administrators. That will double the inspection capability and enable the
division to conduct 1,200 investigations a year, Aerts said.

The Florida Agricultural Worker Safety Act, which was renewed in 2004, carries
fines of $250 per worker for agricultural producers who violate
pesticide-related regulations, Aerts said. Stricter regulations from both the
state and federal governments are expected by the summer of 2007, he said.

- susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  15TH ANNUAL CITRUS EXPO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER'S EL SOL ALSO RISES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 404 words


Irony always has permeated the American immigration story, so it figures that
the El Sol Jupiter Resource Center would open with an ironic twist last week.

For months, as they planned the center, Jupiter officials and immigration
activists worried that workers might be reluctant to show up because they feared
deportation or government reprisals for illegal status. As it turned out,
workers showed up in large numbers -- but employers stayed away, some probably
fearing reprisals if they hired illegal immigrants.

But El Sol (561-748-5177) has made significant progress in the short time since
it opened. With fliers, refrigerator magnets and word of mouth, organizers have
recruited more employers to use the center and have closed the gap between jobs
and workers. Residents and business owners throughout Palm Beach County are
hiring immigrants to do work of all descriptions -- from mowing lawns to
painting houses to moving furniture. "We have come a long way in just one week,"
says Elisa Bland, the Catholic Charities division director who oversees El Sol.
"We're getting more employers and workers every day."

Just getting the center up and running is an important achievement for a
community that has demonstrated the political courage to find practical
solutions to a complicated problem that the federal government continues to
ignore. While Washington lawmakers wring their hands and trade insults, Jupiter
has put a progressive plan in motion and is making it work. By giving workers
and employers a place to connect, the town can crack down on immigrants
soliciting jobs on street corners. By treating workers fairly, valuing their
contributions to the economy and giving them a place to find social services,
the town claims the moral high ground and can use it to make Jupiter a better
place. Police and building inspectors can crack down on immigrants who pack
houses and violate codes without hearing complaints about heavy-handedness.

The workers who have come to the center have shown a willingness to assimilate
and play by the town's rules. The center's English classes have been full. By
making them part of the community, Jupiter has given immigrants reason to care
about what happens to the place they're living in. El Sol has the chance to be
the model for Lake Worth, West Palm Beach and cities throughout South Florida
that realize the corrosive effects of ignoring a problem that isn't going away.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 218 words


LAKE WORTH - A 16-year-old was shot in the leg about 8:45 p.m. Tuesday near his
home in the 800 block of South E Street, authorities said. Jimmy Gilles suffered
nonlife-threatening injuries and was taken to JFK Medical Center in Atlantis.
Authorities believe Gilles was shot by one or two armed men who got away in a
red, four-door Dodge Neon SRT model with a spoiler, said Palm Beach County
sheriff's spokesman Paul Miller. One man reportedly had a rifle and the other a
handgun, Miller said. The Palm Beach County Violent Crimes Task Force is
investigating the shooting, which may be related to other cases it is working,
Miller said. Anyone with information is asked to call the task force at (561)
688-4014.

WEST PALM BEACH - Police arrested two men who tried to smuggle five undocumented
immigrants ashore Tuesday, authorities said. U.S. Customs agents assisted the
police and caught the men as they attempted to bring a 31-foot boat into Currie
Park on Flagler Drive, police spokesman Ted White said. One of the men was
piloting the boat while the other waited onshore. Three Dominican women and two
Haitian men were aboard, White said. Police arrested the alleged smugglers,
believed to be from the Miami area. The undocumented immigrants were being
transferred to U.S. Coast Guard custody, police said.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MAN FACES DEPORTATION IN '94 CONVICTION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 165 words


WEST PALM BEACH - Authorities on Wednesday arrested a 34-year-old supervisor at
a local law firm. According to a news release, Vladymir Pierre-Louis was
convicted in Palm Beach County in 1994 for lewd assault on a minor and had
eluded authorities since his order of removal was finalized. U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement deportation officers, with the help of the St. Lucie
County Sheriff's Office, apprehended him. Pierre-Louis awaits deportation at
Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County, the release said.

FORT PIERCE - Investigators are calling a fire at an abandoned church early
Friday morning suspicious. St. Lucie County Fire District Capt. Brian Blizzard
said homeless people frequent the derelict building at 1118 Ave. D, where the
fire started near the door on the building's north side. Blizzard said the
building received minor damage and that the fire remained under investigation.
Fort Pierce police spokeswoman Audria Moore said police did not have any
suspects.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  TREASURE COAST DIGEST

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 VADA MOSSAVAT/Staff Photographer Putting the tomatoes in INDIANTOWN - William
Atkins helps friend Melvin Spooner (left), 83, plant tomatoes in Spooner's son's
garden. Mel Jr. says the work gives his dad something to do. 'I do this because
I like it,' Mel Sr. says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 14, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PUSH TO DEPORT PARENTS COULD COST KIDS THEIR HOME

BYLINE: Liz Balmaseda

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1188 words


A small American flag waves outside the Rosell family home in Pembroke Pines.
There are white wicker chairs on the front porch, a fishing boat in the
driveway, a bull mastiff puppy in the back yard. This is a busy suburban
household.

Julio and Caroline Rosell run their own woodwork design business. Their two
school-age children are active in their local Optimist Club. Jeannette, 10, is a
cheerleader who loves to sing. Julio Jr., 9, plays football and idolizes the
Miami Dolphins. They attend Boulevard Heights Elementary School, where math is
their favorite subject and where the cultural details of their parents' native
lands, Cuba and Guyana, are celebrated during special heritage lessons as
interesting but decidedly foreign.

The children are American by birth and by all other definitions. To them, as to
their culturally assimilated parents, there is no other homeland. But a letter
arrived eight months ago that shattered the family's sense of security and
normalcy. It was from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement branch of the
Department of Homeland Security, and it said Mr. and Mrs. Rosell were no longer
welcome in this country.

The letter set in motion a legal process that could end with the deportation of
Julio and Caroline Rosell, who have lived here legally for more than 12 years
with up-to-date work papers, Social Security cards and Florida driver licenses.
Their children, born in Florida, have never been outside the United States.

"I don't want to leave my country. It makes me very sad to think about it," says
Jeannette, who wants to be a pediatrician when she grows up. She and her little
brother are part of a growing stream of American-born children who stand
helpless before the possibility that their immigrant parents may be deported.

Many already have watched as parents are taken away, detained and deported.
Others have been forced to flee their homes before immigration officials
descend. And others, like the Rosell children, face the daunting idea that they
may have to grow up in another country.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that there are more than 3.1 million U.S.-born
children of "unauthorized migrants" in the United States, all of them granted
birthrights by the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. But because those rights
do not extend to the children's parents, immigrant legal advocates are left to
fight against the separation of families.

On Wednesday, a coalition of immigration rights groups filed a class-action
lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Miami on behalf of 60 U.S.-born children of
undocumented immigrants, arguing that the children would "suffer great and
irreparable hardship" from the deportation of their parents.

"How do you explain to a child born and raised in this country that he has no
rights as an American, that he must see his parents sent away to another
country?" asks Nora Sandigo, a Miami advocate who is listed as the children's
guardian ad litem in the lawsuit. "These American children are paying for the
crimes of the 9/11 terrorists. How is it their fault?"

The advocates' chief counsel, Alfonso Oviedo, said Friday that the coalition is
seeking landmark support from local officials and elected leaders. His group,
American Fraternity, has called a news conference for Wednesday to present the
children listed on the lawsuit and their local supporters.

"We want Miami-Dade County to become a sanctuary county for the parents of U.S.
children of immigrants in the United States," says Oviedo, who calls the
government's intensified deportation efforts against the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in this country "pure politics."

Whatever the cause of the deportations, Julio Rosell, 41-year-old suburban dad,
fears for his family. He arrived in 1994 as a stowaway aboard an American
merchant ship from Brazil. A former merchant marine from Cuba, he had been
detained on his own ship after he was seen chatting with a Cuban exile in an
Eastern European port.

He managed to escape and slip aboard an American vessel, where he hid in the
engine room for the 23-day voyage. On the 19th day, crewmen found him.

When the boat docked in Pennsylvania, Rosell was detained and grilled about his
country of origin. To determine whether he was truly Cuban, which would favor
his chances of remaining in the U.S., immigration authorities gave him a Cuban
pop quiz: Name the provinces. Speak the language. Sing the Cuban national
anthem.

After three months, U.S. immigration officials granted him parole and released
him with what Rosell says was an assurance that he would be eligible for U.S.
residency after one year and one day, as allowed by the Cuban Adjustment Act of
1966.

Rosell, still weak from being a stowaway, was a free man. He rushed to Miami to
reunite with his mother, from whom he had been separated for years. But just two
months later, his mother suffered a stroke and died. Devastated and homeless, he
found himself wandering the streets until he rented a small efficiency in
Hollywood. There, he says, his life in America truly began.

His neighbor was a young woman on a student visa from Guyana. Caroline. She had
striking eyes and an easy smile. They fell in love, married and had two babies,
Jeannette and Julio Jr.

Rosell worked as a carpenter, earning $4 an hour. While his green card was being
processed, he kept his work papers, driver license and Social Security documents
up to date. As his wife, Caroline Rosell shared his status, also keeping her
legal documents current as they opened their own business and bought their own
home.

"We were legal," says Caroline, 32. The problem is Rosell's green card never
came. He hired three lawyers to navigate the U.S. immigration service labyrinth,
but he says the best they could do was inform him his original petition had been
misplaced in Texas.

Then one day eight months ago, a letter arrived telling the couple their
application for residency would be denied because Julio had been a stowaway.
With that, the government refused to renew his work permit and driver license,
which expired in May. His wife's papers will expire in a couple of weeks. After
the government twice denied their request to reconsider their residency
petition, the Rosells took their case to yet another lawyer.

What's Plan B for them?

"Plan B? God. It's in his hands," says Julio. "This makes no sense to me. My
life here has been very normal. I've complied with all my obligations. I've done
nothing but work hard and raise my family. That's what I've given this country,
my hard work and two beautiful American children. And yet " He is overcome with
emotion as he tells his story one afternoon this week.

Caroline speaks up for him.

"My kids were not ready for this kind of impact," she says. "We had a legal
life. Kids of undocumented parents, they know that their parents are at risk.
But we were never at risk."

Their daughter speaks for herself. "I love my parents so much. Every night, they
come in and they tuck me in to bed," she says. "They tell me stories and make me
feel safe. If both my parents are deported, then who would tuck me in at night?
A stranger?"

~ liz_balmaseda@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 THOMAS CORDY/Staff Photographer U.S. citizens Julio Rosell Jr., 9, and his
sister, Jeannette, 10, may have to leave because their parents, Julio and
Caroline Rosell (background), have been told their residency application has
been denied.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 2, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

AUTHORITIES: MAN HAS 10 KNIVES IN CARRY-ON BAG AT PBIA

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 249 words


A California man was arrested at Palm Beach International Airport on Thursday
night after he attempted to board a plane with 10 knives in his carry-on bag,
authorities said.

Two long knives and eight pocket knives were stashed in 29-year-old Vardan
Garibyan's luggage as he placed it into a metal detector about 5:15 p.m.,
according to officials.

He was arrested on charges of carrying concealed weapons and violating a
security directive after a baggage screener for the federal Transportation
Security Administration discovered the knives.

Garibyan, an Armenian citizen with a lengthy arrest record in California, will
be deported to Armenia when the state charges against him have been resolved,
according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. An agency spokeswoman
would not say whether he is thought to be in the country illegally.

The discovery of the knives did not cause any airport delays, PBIA spokeswoman
Lisa De La Rionda said.

Garibyan, who was bound for Los Angeles, was arrested without incident by the
Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office.

Sheriff's office spokeswoman Diane Carhart said the number of weapons found in
Garibyan's bag was unusual but that he was not thought to have terrorist ties.

It was unclear Friday why Garibyan was carrying the knives.

"We know that he definitely had knowledge that he had these weapons," Carhart
said. "It wasn't like a nail file."

Staff researcher Melanie Mena contributed to this story.

andrew_marra@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Vardan Garibyan (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              282 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                October 10, 2004 Sunday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

STORMS LEAVE NEEDY IMMIGRANTS IN A FIX

BYLINE: By RANI GUPTA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 858 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


Her landlord has neglected her Indiantown home so much that it's "raining more
inside than out" from the roof damage. Water has ruined all of her appliances.
Jobs for her husband have been few and far between. With their meager income,
the couple has had no choice but to buy supplies to fix the roof themselves.

"We don't have anybody to take care of us," the 35-year-old mother of three said
in Spanish.

The obvious course of action for most people - to ask the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for aid - isn't so easy in this woman's case because she is an
undocumented immigrant. She is afraid that she will be deported if she seeks
help.

"I might try," she says when told she can get help through FEMA, but without
much conviction.

Some of the hardest-hit residents of Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne have been
these immigrants. Many, however, fear seeking help could jeopardize their
chances of staying in this country.

"They are hurting and not getting the help because they are afraid," said Livia
Caceres, who runs the Jesus House of Hope's Indiantown branch.

The groups and government agencies serving them are getting the word out that
residents can ask for help. FEMA and American Red Cross officials say they don't
contact immigration authorities about people seeking hurricane aid.

"That's not our duty to expose the undocumented immigrants, but to get them
help," FEMA spokesman Ken Higginbotham said. "These people need help as well. We
don't want people to be deterred by that issue."

Many of the day laborers and migrant farmworkers in rural Indiantown have been
out of work since the storms. That, combined with extensive damage to homes in
the St. Lucie Mobile Village and Booker Park communities, has made it hard for
many residents to pay bills.

Undocumented workers are among the most likely to lose income and their
possessions from the hurricane. But they often are reluctant to seek help,
especially if governments were a source of fear, and not of aid, in the home
countries.

Residents without a Social Security number can apply for FEMA aid if any of
their children are valid residents, and FEMA will not question the immigration
status of a child's parents. Red Cross requires some identification and proof of
residency, but not a Social Security number.

To let people know they can seek help, FEMA workers went door-to-door and talked
to thousands of residents.

Agencies also set up in Indiantown, not just for undocumented immigrants, but to
make it more convenient and comfortable for all. FEMA opened a recovery center
last week at the Indiantown library, and the Red Cross went on outreach
campaigns in Indiantown and briefly set up camp at a local church.

But in this one-stoplight town, the best way to draw people to rescue agencies
may be more simple.

"We simply put the word out, and out here word of mouth travels very fast," said
Doug Glover, manager of the Indiantown One-Stop Career Center, which has seen a
significant increase in the number of workers applying for aid for lost wages.

Yolanda Lozano, who lives southwest of Stuart, persuaded some acquaintances to
seek food and clothing vouchers at the Red Cross after she got help there.

"It's hard when you're like that because you're scared of everybody," Lozano
said.

She said her friends were swayed when Jeanne devastated and flooded their homes,
leaving them without food and clothing.

"They're scared and they're stubborn too because they say, 'They're not going to
help,' " Lozano said. "But then when they get the help, they get all smiley."

Even so, the rules mean some are unable to get help. For example, one
32-year-old Indiantown resident, who declined to give her name, said her home's
roof was damaged and work has been scarce. Her husband worked one day in a week.

But the woman said FEMA turned her away because she does not have a Social
Security number and her children are in Mexico.

Sometimes even when they're allowed to seek certain types of aid, undocumented
residents are reluctant to do so.

Emergency food stamps were given out last week through the Department of
Children and Families regardless of status. Sister Teresa Auad, a community
activist who runs the InDios co-op, discouraged needy residents who weren't U.S.
citizens from taking them.

She believes the government is reluctant to grant citizenship to immigrants who
have taken aid in the past.

"It will help them in the long run when they apply for residency," Auad said.

In the meantime, many residents are relying on familiar community agencies, such
as their local churches. Another, Jesus House of Hope, does not require
residents to be legal to apply for rent money or to use the group's clothes
closet or food pantry.

Caceres, of Jesus House of Hope, said there's a chance that by seeking aid,
these residents might conjure up negative stereotypes of undocumented
immigrants. Caceres knows them as hardworking, resilient and grateful for
anything they receive.

"They are extraordinary people," she said. "When people get to know the
intricacies of their world, they tip their hats in respect."

rani_gupta@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              283 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ABDUCTION TALE EVOLVES INTO TRAFFICKING SAGA

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARRA and TONY DORIS Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: LANTANA


Susana Mateo Jose's journey started on foot in Guatemala and ended when her
suspected captors were arrested Tuesday in an SUV on Interstate 95, leading to
what is believed to be the first use of a new state law prohibiting human
trafficking, police say.

The 18-year-old was more than a kidnapping victim, authorities say. She was the
final drop-off for an illegal immigrant smuggling ring that sneaked 17
Guatemalans into the United States and delivered them one by one to relatives
and acquaintances in Alabama and Florida.

Her parents were prepared to pay $1,000 in cash for her safe delivery outside a
Lantana Kmart Tuesday morning. But when things went awry, Jose's deliverers left
with her in tow, prompting an intense six-hour police search, according to
Lantana police.

The two men who drove her to Florida, identified as Regino Sanchez and Ricardo
Jose Contreras, sat in the Palm Beach County Jail on Wednesday on charges of
kidnapping and human trafficking while Jose, an illegal immigrant, remained free
to stay with her parents in Boynton Beach. Federal officials plan to review her
status this week.

The story of Jose's journey - relayed in broad strokes by police officials who
interrogated her, her captors and her family - offers a rare glimpse into the
perilous but common business of trafficking humans across the Mexican border and
into the most ordinary of American neighborhoods.

"Hopefully this brings the whole issue to the forefront and people understand
this is going on around us," Lantana police Capt. Andy Rundle said.

From her home in Guatemala, Jose said, she traveled for a month through her
country and Mexico before sneaking on foot across the border into Arizona. From
there, she was crammed into a Chevrolet Suburban with two transporters, commonly
known as "raiteros," and 16 other illegal immigrants for a winding journey
through the Southeast.

First time law used

It is an everyday phenomenon that is winning increasing attention from
lawmakers, so much so that the Florida legislature last year enacted the state's
first law explicitly banning human trafficking, echoing a federal law that bars
the practice. Every year, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are caught
crossing the border from Mexico.

Police who arrested Jose's two suspected captors booked them on the state human
trafficking charge as well as a kidnapping charge.

Experts believe it is the first time the law has been used to make an arrest,
although it is not clear yet whether state prosecutors will use it to charge the
men formally.

State Rep. Anne Gannon, D-Delray Beach, and then-state Sen. Debbie Wasserman
Schultz, D-Weston, say they sponsored the law partly out of concern that federal
attention was being diverted to fight terrorism and that Florida law enforcement
needed tools to prosecute such cases on their own when federal resources are
stretched.

"A lot of people asked, 'It's federal law. Why do you need to make it state
law?' " said Wasserman Schultz, now a congresswoman. "Our premise was that the
federal authorities were swamped, spread so thin that they had trouble finding
time and resources to prosecute these cases."

$700 paid in advance

Jose's odyssey began in late February after her father, Mateo Jose, a Boynton
Beach resident and landscaper, began making arrangements to have her smuggled
into Florida.

Mateo Jose agreed to pay $700 in advance and at least another $1,000 once his
daughter was delivered, according to a Lantana police report. It was not known
Wednesday whom he contacted to arrange her journey.

Susana Jose told police that 60 people set out from Guatemala for the United
States. But by the time they crossed into Arizona, only 17 remained. The rest,
she said, were caught by Mexican and American authorities.

In Arizona, they met Sanchez and Contreras, who piled the group into the dark
brown Chevrolet Suburban and headed for Alabama.

Susana Jose told police she had the good fortune to sit in the front seat
between the two men. In the aisles behind her, the other 16 were "stacked like
cordwood," Rundle said.

The two traffickers carried a list of their 17 passengers, along with the cities
each was destined for and the delivery fee owed.

The Suburban wound through Alabama and down into Florida, dropping people off
along the way.

On Sunday, Jose's father received a phone call telling him she was in the United
States, according to the police report. Early Tuesday morning, his phone rang
again. The suspects told him his daughter was nearby and instructed him to meet
them in the parking lot of the Kmart at Hypoluxo Road and South Dixie Highway.

Jose's parents and younger sister drove to the parking lot about 6:30 a.m. and
pulled up next to the waiting Suburban. Their daughter was inside.

But there was a dispute over money. Jose's father had $1,000, but the
traffickers told him it was not enough, according to police.

Just then, Jose's sister's phone rang. The traffickers saw her talking on the
line and apparently panicked. Police say they sped off with Susana Jose still
inside. Not long afterward, her sister called 911.

Thought family spurned her

Police say the family lied at first to investigators, saying Susana Jose was
with them that morning and that they had gone to Kmart to shop. They told police
four men were in the SUV when they snatched Susana Jose and sped off. They said
they chased the SUV to I-95 before giving up.

What police consider the true version of the story did not come out until later
in the day.

Inside the Suburban, Susana Jose was unaware of the dispute and told police she
thought then that her parents did not love or want her. She asked the two men to
take her to Alabama, where she could live with a woman she befriended on the
trip from Guatemala.

But the men told her no.

Susana Jose and her alleged captors were tracked down through their cellphone
activity. Authorities caught up with them at a Lake Worth home and followed
their Suburban onto I-95.

They pulled the SUV over after stopping traffic just north of Northlake
Boulevard in Palm Beach Gardens. The men surrendered and Susana Jose was
recovered unharmed. More than $11,500 in cash was found in the car.

Jose's family spread their fabricated story in brief comments to reporters
Tuesday night. On Wednesday, their Boynton Beach home sat empty.

Rundle said Susana Jose and her family were instructed to report to the Federal
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's West Palm Beach office today so
her immigration status could be reviewed.

An immigration spokeswoman could not say whether Susana Jose will face
deportation back to Guatemala.

Staff writers John Lantigua and Pilar Ulibarri contributed to this story.

- andrew_marra@pbpost.com

- tony_doris@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 LONG HAUL: Susana Jose traveled from Guatemala. (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              284 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLED PEOPLE PAY THOUSANDS, WALK ACROSS DESERT

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 318 words


The smuggling of people from Mexico and Central America to Florida usually
occurs in two stages:

- Smugglers, known as "coyotes," sneak their human cargo across the U.S. border.
During the past several years, this has been done most often by crossing the
Arizona desert on foot for about 50 to 70 miles, which generally takes three or
four days. Fees for that crossing can run from about $800 to more than $2,500,
according to the U.S. Border Patrol.

- The people smuggled, who are known as "chickens," are picked up in a remote
area by vehicles that transport them to safe houses in Arizona or other parts of
the Southwest. Most of the people smuggled in have family in the United States
who then wire money to pay the "coyote" so their loved ones can continue on
their path east.

The "chickens" then hook up with another smuggler whose job it is to drive them
across the country to their destinations. These second-stage smugglers are known
as "raiteros," from the English word ride. Fees for that service, in general,
run more than $1,000.

A pickup location and time are determined. Family members must show up with the
prearranged amount of money, although smugglers have been known to demand a
larger amount at the last moment. Some "chickens" have been held hostage while
the families struggled to find more money.

In some cases, the same organization handles both stages of the smuggling and
all the money comes due when the "raitero" reaches the pickup location. It can
amount to thousands of dollars.

In still other cases, "chickens" have no relatives to pay the fees. Those people
then have to work, most often in agriculture, until they pay off their smuggling
fees. In effect, they are kept in indentured servitude, and sometimes are even
locked up when not working.

The latter offense has led to the prosecution and conviction of several
individuals on slavery charges in Florida during the past decade.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              285 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 1, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUSPECTS MIGHT FACE NEW TRAFFICKING LAW

BYLINE: By TONY DORIS and ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 677 words


When they peeled away with a Guatemalan immigrant they'd allegedly been paid to
smuggle to Lantana, Ricardo Contreras and Regino Sanchez made Florida law
enforcement history.

After their swift capture, the two - themselves illegal immigrants from Mexico,
police believe - became the first in Florida to be charged with the state's
6-month-old law against trafficking in human beings.

Experts estimate that 20,000 people a year are victimized by human traffickers
across the United States, with Florida considered one of the prime receiving
states. The new Florida law, enacted in 2004, was spurred by a 256-page Florida
State University research study documenting the prevalence of the
hard-to-prosecute crime.

A federal anti-trafficking act took effect in 2000, doubling penalties from
about 10 years to 20 years-to-life. "Prior to that, penalties were higher for
drug trafficking than for trafficking human beings," said Terry Coonan,
executive director of FSU's Center for the Advancement of Human Rights.

FSU researchers, however, found by 2003 that the federal law enforcement
agencies' focus on terrorism meant reduced priority was placed on
human-trafficking cases, particularly cases involving small numbers of victims,
Coonan said Thursday. "But we find that most of the trafficking cases are
mom-and-pop operations," he said. "And it's state and local police who discover
trafficking typically, far more often than federal enforcers. It's far more
important to have a state law."

U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Weston, who sponsored the bill when she
was a state senator in 2004, said the FSU research, combined with a couple of
highly publicized cases of human trafficking in suburban Palm Beach County,
provided the impetus for the legislative effort. Under the new law, Contreras
and Sanchez face sentences as long as 30 years, if convicted.

It's still possible that federal prosecutors will take over the cases against
Contreras and Sanchez, said Lantana police Capt. Andy Rundle, whose department
also filed charges of kidnapping against them. It's also possible the state
attorney's office will choose to prosecute Contreras and Sanchez under different
charges, such as smuggling, depending on the results of the investigation.

But Rundle said he was glad to have the state human-trafficking charges to use,
in case the feds don't opt in. Meanwhile, they also could be held on immigration
violations, Rundle said. "If I could have stuck more things on them, I would
have."

Smuggling and trafficking are related but different crimes. The first involves
transporting someone for a fee, typically with the consent of the person who's
being brought into the United States. According to FSU's Coonan, trafficking
charges usually require evidence that the victim would be forced into work as a
laborer, prostitute or domestic worker.

In the Lantana case, police say that the parents of Susana Jose, 18, who live in
Boynton Beach, arranged for the Guatemalan teen to be brought to the United
States and made a down payment. Contreras and Sanchez met the Joses to deliver
Susana at a Kmart parking lot at 1201 S. Federal Highway, in Lantana at 6:30
a.m. Tuesday. However, a dispute arose over the final payment and the men sped
off.

An affidavit filed by investigator Jim Eddy, asserts police had probable cause
to file the human-trafficking charge against the defendants because the two
appeared to be leaving Palm Beach County with Susana Jose, and because, "it is
common practice for human smugglers to sell unpaid people for slave labor."

In a separate affidavit, police say that Jose's mother, Ana Miguel, told a
Boynton Beach detective that she was threatened on the phone that if all the
money wasn't paid, that her daughter would be sold.

FSU's Coonan says state law was written with just this kind of case in mind,
when severe penalties may be warranted but the federal government might not jump
in. "A lot of people who agree to be smuggled don't realize they're about to be
trafficking victims," he said.

tony_doris@pbpost.com

andrew_marra@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              286 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 14, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TWO SMUGGLERS CAUGHT, BUT FLOW KEEPS COMING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 402 words


The story sounded strange from the start. Four men just happen to drive a van
into a Kmart parking lot in Lantana and just happen to kidnap a certain
18-year-old girl.

Because, not surprisingly, that wasn't the whole story. As their guilty pleas
last week in Miami showed, Rogino Sanchez and Ricardo Jose Contreras weren't in
that parking lot by chance. They were there to drop off 18-year-old Susana Jose
- after payment from her family of the remaining $2,500 for smuggling her to
Florida from Guatemala. When her father asked for more time to get the money,
the men took off, and the father made up the kidnapping story.

The state charged the men under Florida's new human trafficking law, and the
case then went into federal court. Each man pleaded guilty to illegally
transporting illegal immigrants and to conspiracy. Each count carries a 10-year
maximum sentence. For some perspective into this shadowy world, the cost of
bringing Susana Jose was about $5,300; her family previously had paid $2,756 to
the traffickers.

Since they regarded the girl as a commodity, Sanchez and Contreras should get
the maximum. Having said that, the United States is part of the problem. These
men and the many others who smuggle people into the United States are responding
to a classic market economics case of supply and demand. Willing if desperate
Guatemalans and Mexicans seek low-wage, no-benefits jobs, without which a large
chunk of the U.S. and Florida economies could not survive, because they think it
means a better future for them and their families.

The United States allows this trade to flourish because Congress is confirming
right-wing judges and passing fattened-up transportation bills instead of
dealing with illegal immigration. Lawmakers can't plead ignorance. In December
2003, The Post ran a series of articles that laid out the business of human
smuggling. Susana Jose was following the usual route: from Guatemala through
Mexico and into the United States along the Arizona border, the stretch that
still remains fairly open. Those who don't die in the desert then are
transported east to Alabama and Florida. Money is wired to the smugglers along
the way. It's just another business.

Sensible ideas to manage the immigration traffic from the south and put the
smugglers out of work can't get a vote in Washington. As long as Congress
delays, people like Sanchez and Contreras will be open for business.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              287 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS OF GIRL WHO KILLED SELF SENTENCED

BYLINE: By LARRY KELLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 366 words


Two human smugglers of an 18-year-old Guatemalan woman who later committed
suicide in Boynton Beach were sentenced to less than two years in prison on
Wednesday.

Ricardo Contreras, 34, and Rogino Sanchez, 24, were sentenced to 18 months and
15 months in prison respectively by U.S. District Judge Donald Middlebrooks in
federal court in Miami. Both are likely to be deported after their release,
prosecutors said.

"I have nothing to say," Contreras told the judge after the sentence was
imposed.

They pleaded guilty in June to transporting an illegal immigrant within the
United States for profit and conspiring to transport others for the same
purpose. Each faced up to 10 years in prison on each count, but sentencing
guidelines called for 12 to 18 months.

The men and their cargo of at least a dozen people might have remained anonymous
had the delivery of Susana Mateo Jose to her parents not been botched in March.

Contreras and Sanchez charged between $600 to more than $1,000 to drive the
immigrants from Arizona to Alabama, and finally Florida. Jose was their last
drop-off.

With Contreras at the wheel, the men drove Jose in a Chevrolet Suburban to a
Kmart parking lot in Lantana to collect the balance owed them by Jose's family
for smuggling her to Florida, authorities said.

When her father, Mateo Jose, asked the smugglers for more time to go to a bank
and get the rest of the money, Contreras and Sanchez sped away with Susana Jose
still in tow, authorities said.

The men were arrested later that day on Interstate 95 near Northlake Boulevard.
Jose was reunited with her family, owners of a landscaping business in Boynton
Beach.

That ended a long odyssey for her that began in Guatemala. From there, she
walked with a group across the border into Mexico. She eventually made it to
Sonora, Mexico where she crossed into the United States and went to a "safe
house" in Phoenix where she and others got a ride with Contreras and Sanchez.

Less than three months after reaching her destination, and while still awaiting
word on her immigration status, Susana Jose hanged herself from a tree in the
back yard of her parents' home.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

larry_keller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Rogino Sanchez (mug) 2. Ricardo Contreras (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              288 of 288 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 96 words


A man was sentenced in West Palm Beach to 60 months in prison after being found
guilty of smuggling illegal immigrants into the United States for his own
financial gain, according to the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
Florida. A jury convicted Moral Lafleur, also known as Daniel Brown. Evidence at
the trial showed that immigrants from Jamaica and Haiti came ashore in Jupiter
on May 5, 2005, after traveling through the Bahamas on a 25-foot boat captained
by Lafleur. Two immigrants testified that they paid Lafleur $3,500 each to be
smuggled into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
