
                               1 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suit against Arizona law questioned

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 234 words


A federal appellate judge expressed deep skepticism Monday about a Justice
Department lawsuit challenging Arizona's new immigration law, leaving uncertain
the Obama administration's chances of stopping the law from taking effect.

Judge John Noonan grilled administration lawyers at a hearing before the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. He took aim at the core of the Justice
Department's argument: that the Arizona statute is "preempted" by federal law
and is especially troublesome because it requires mandatory immigration status
checks in certain circumstances.

"You don't have an argument," Noonan told Deputy Solicitor General Edwin
Kneedler.

Kneedler disagreed.

"With respect, I do believe we have an argument," said Kneedler, who said the
Arizona law is unconstitutional and threatens civil liberties by subjecting
lawful immigrants to "interrogation and police surveillance."

The exchange came at a hearing on efforts by the Justice Department to overturn
the Arizona law, which empowers police to question people they suspect are in
the country illegally. A federal judge in Phoenix issued a July injunction.

With Noonan, an appointee of President Reagan, so bluntly stating his views,
legal experts said the government's chances of having the injunction upheld may
rest with the other two judges on Monday's panel: Carlos Bea, a Republican
appointee, and Richard Paez, a Democratic appointee.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REACTION TO ARIZONA LAW

BYLINE: By JEFF OSTROWSKI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Holding candles and signs, more than 100 people gathered at City Hall on
Saturday night to bash Arizona's new immigration law.

The vigil in Lake Worth was part of a nationwide series of protests that drew
tens of thousands of people from Los Angeles to Washington who spoke out against
immigration laws they view as draconian and discriminatory.

While singer Gloria Estefan kicked off a massive march in downtown Los Angeles,
it was Vice Mayor Jo-Ann Golden who started the bilingual protest in Lake Worth.

"We all need to not fight with each other about who's American and who's not
American," Golden said. "We are all American."

The demonstrations are part of the public outcry over Arizona's freshly passed
immigration measure. That law requires local and state police to question people
about their immigration status if there's reason to suspect they're in the
country illegally. It also makes it a state crime to be in the United States
illegally.

The law's supporters say it's necessary because of the federal government's
failure to secure the border.

Critics contend it encourages racial profiling and is unconstitutional.

Isabel Vinent, one of the organizers of the Lake Worth event, said Palm Beach
County Hispanics have other concerns close to home.

Federal immigration authorities and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office last
week announced a new agreement to share fingerprint records, which they say will
help identify illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes, keep them
off county streets and remove them from the country. It's part of a program
known as Secure Communities.

"It will just increase the criminalization of immigrants," Vinent said.

Another speaker at the event, Democratic activist C. Shahid Freeman, compared
today's immigration debate to the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

"Great nations do great things," Freeman said. "We do not treat our hard-working
people like they're less than animals in the field."

While some protesters were arrested in Washington, the Lake Worth demonstration
ended uneventfully.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~jeff_ostrowski@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer Unified voices:Ana Chimbo, 9, of
Lake Worth joins others with the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant
Rights during an interfaith vigil Saturday evening in front of city hall.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA'S NEW IMMIGRATION LAW BRINGS PROTESTERS

BYLINE: By JOE CAPOZZI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: MIAMI GARDENS


The Arizona Diamondbacks are trying their best to stay out of politics, but
they've been a magnet this season for protests over their state's new
immigration law.

"These guys have no idea what's going on. They're just worried about baseball.
Baseball is a tough-enough job,'' Diamondbacks third-base coach Bo Porter, a
former Marlins coach, said before Monday's game.

Sun Life Stadium was the latest stop, where 40 protesters stood in a driving
rain storm to protest a law which allows police to check people for citizenship
documents and arrest those who don't have them.

"This is a really bad development in Arizona because you're going to have a lot
of people pulled over just because they're Latino,'' Subhash Kateel, an
organizer with the Florida Immigrant Coalition, said as protesters yelled
outside Gate 4.

"By the time the lawyers and media figure it out, people have lost their jobs,
families have gotten separated and people are afraid to call the police," Kateel
said. "If I'm a drug trafficker or bad guy, I'm going to Arizona because no one
is going to call the cops over there because they're too afraid to.''

Marlins third baseman Jorge Cantu, born in Texas to Mexican parents, said he
supports the picketers.

"I really feel bad for my countrymen and their families,'' Cantu said, "I just
don't agree with what's going on with that law. And the people in the other
clubhouse will tell you the same thing.

"It's a little shot in the heart. It's hard to believe that stuff is happening
here," he added.

Protesters also have picketed games in Arizona, Chicago and Atlanta, calling for
a boycott of the 2012 All-Star Game. Commissioner Bud Selig has said he has no
plans to move that game out of Phoenix.

Noteworthy: The Diamondbacks will start RHP Billy Buckner today against Josh
Johnson. The game starts at 1:10 p.m.

~joe_capozzi@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MARLINS NOTEBOOK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't import Arizona's law ;
 Florida doesn't need it -- or the boycotts.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 535 words


Attorney General Bill McCollum and state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, say
Florida needs an immigration law like Arizona's controversial
show-me-your-papers legislation. Given the legal challenges to the new statute
-- including the threat of a challenge by the U.S. Justice Department -- Florida
should not rush to follow Arizona. Instead, states should press lawmakers in
Washington to secure U.S. borders and to approve comprehensive immigration
reform. It's the responsibility of the federal government to enact and enforce
immigration laws.

Even law enforcement officials in Arizona are divided over the Support Our Law
Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act (Senate Bill 1070). The Arizona
Association of Chiefs of Police and several sheriffs have called it burdensome
and an intrusion into a federal matter. Proponents say it buttresses existing
federal statutes.

The law gives Arizona's state and local police authority to determine a person's
immigration status if they reasonably suspect that he or she is in the state
illegally during a lawful stop, detention or arrest. It also allows police to
charge immigrants with a state misdemeanor for not carrying immigration
documents. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the law last month, cited crime
as the reason. "We cannot sacrifice our safety," she said, "to the murderous
greed of the drug cartels." Statistics from the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection agency and the FBI, however, indicate that the number of illegal
crossings and violent crimes in Arizona have decreased in recent years.

As for Florida, neither Mr. McCollum, who is running for governor, nor Rep.
Snyder, who is seeking reelection, have cited crime or any other urgent reason
for this state to enact an immigration law. Rep. Snyder, a former police
officer, said it is an issue of human rights and public safety. "Undocumented
immigrants live in a shadowy netherland where they are easily taken advantage of
and they don't enjoy the same rights that you and I enjoy," he said. "If they're
a victim of crime, they're afraid of law enforcement and they're easily preyed
upon because of their illegal status."

He said his staff is drafting a bill he will file next spring if he's reelected.
that would make it an arrestable offense to be in Florida illegally. Police who
discover during an investigation that a suspect is here illegally would be
obligated to charge that person with the misdemeanor, he said. That hardly would
make undocumented immigrants feel safer or fear law enforcement less.

In fact, it might do more harm than good by subjecting Florida's already bruised
economy to boycotts similar to those Arizona has endured. So far, Arizona's loss
has been Florida's gain. The National Minority Suppliers Development Council
Inc., for example, is moving its fall convention of 7,000 from Phoenix to
Florida.

During a meeting with Gov. Brewer on Thursday, President Obama, who opposes
Arizona's immigration law, said most of the 1,200 National Guard troops he's
sending to the border will benefit Arizona. That, like Arizona's law, is a
Band-Aid. If the president wants to avoid having more states do what Arizona
did, he must work with Congress to find a long-term solution.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  TALK BACK! http://blogs.PalmBeachPost.com/opinionzone Should Florida
adopt an immigration law like Arizona's?

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona fight shapes Florida race ;
 Legislators who are pushing an immigration law here seea winner despite court
loss.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 795 words


The federal injunction blocking key portions of Arizona's immigration law hasn't
deterred Republican legislators and candidates who want to bring a similar
measure to Florida.

"We have one federal judge making a ruling. That ruling is not binding on the
state of Florida in any way," said state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, who
plans to introduce a bill similar to the Arizona law during next spring's
legislative session.

Some of Snyder's colleagues don't want to wait that long. State Sen. Paula
Dockery, R-Lakeland, and state Rep. Kevin Ambler, R-Tampa, want legislators to
pass a crackdown on illegal immigration in September, when the legislature is
expected to meet in a special session on issues related to BP's Gulf of Mexico
oil spill.

GOP gubernatorial candidates Rick Scott and Bill McCollum say Wednesday's ruling
by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton should not delay efforts to bring an
Arizona-style law to Florida.

"It's not surprising," Peter Brown of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute said of the Republican push for an Arizona-style law.

Surveys in Florida and elsewhere show strong support for Arizona's law and
suggest the issue will help the Republicans in November's general elections.

A Quinnipiac poll in June found 59 percent of Floridians support the Arizona law
and 55 percent would be in favor of a similar law here. The Arizona law was
supported by 86 percent of Florida Republicans and 56 percent of independents,
with 51 percent of Democrats opposed.

"This is a huge crossover issue," said Tallahassee-based Republican consultant
Rick Wilson. "It certainly is something that hurts Democrats at the ballot box
in the fall."

Democratic consultant Steve Vancore agrees that most voters, at least initially,
support the Arizona law. Republicans will try to use immigration as a
"distraction" from issues Democrats would rather discuss, he said, such as the
"misgoverning" of the state by Republicans.

"You're going to see it everywhere, except in districts with large Hispanic
populations," Vancore said. "I would expect to see it in every close race where
you have a Democrat against a Republican."

Polls show the economy is the main concern of Florida voters, so it's unclear
how much of a factor illegal immigration will be in November.

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Alex Sink opposes bringing an Arizona-type
law to Florida. But, in an apparent nod to the law's popularity, her statements
have tended to minimize criticism of the Arizona measure while emphasizing the
failure of the federal government to curb illegal immigration. She took a slap
at Washington when the Justice Department filed its lawsuit against Arizona.

"The federal lawsuit against the Arizona law does not address the real problem
-- Washington should be a partner, helping fix our immigration problems and
enforce our laws," Sink said this month.

The most hotly contested portion of Arizona's law -- one blocked by Bolton's
injunction -- requires police making a "lawful stop, detention or arrest" of a
person to attempt to determine his or her immigration status if there is
"reasonable suspicion" the person is in the U.S. illegally.

The law specifically forbids using "race, color or national origin" as a basis
for suspicion, but critics charge it will inevitably lead to racial profiling by
police.

Arizona passed its law in late April. At the time, the Florida Legislature was
winding down a 60-day session during which bills targeting illegal immigration
were not a high priority.

A smattering of immigration-related bills were introduced in Tallahassee this
year. None became law, or even generated much discussion.

Scott injected the issue into the governor's race in early May, with ads
pledging to bring the Arizona law to Florida. Scott's call for an Arizona-style
law has become a sure-fire applause line with Republican audiences on the
campaign trail.

Scott also ran ads in May that blasted McCollum, Florida's attorney general, for
not initially embracing a similar law in Florida. McCollum now supports
importing an Arizona-type law. His office wrote a brief supporting the Arizona
law in the federal case and has been working with Snyder in drafting immigration
legislation for Florida.

While Snyder is moving ahead with his bill despite Wednesday's ruling, he is
leery of calls by Dockery and Ambler to raise the issue in a special session
that would probably last only a few days.

"There's some people that want to talk about this," Snyder said. "The business
community wants to talk about it. The minority community wants to talk about it.
I think people have a right in a free society, in a democratic process, to have
their concerns addressed.

"If we push that thing through in three days, nobody's going to be satisfied."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Marco Rubio's reaction  Candidate talks immigration, politics and
Hispanic voters. PostOnPolitics.comZ In Phoenix and West Palm Beach, protesters
rally against law. 5A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TALK BACK;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 786 words


If government would enforce laws, states wouldn't have to act

The Arizona immigration law arises out of a frustration with our federal
government that, for whatever reason, seems incapable or unwilling to enforce
our laws.

This illegal flow of people is draining the infrastructure of our states and
cities because of the burden placed upon our schools and hospitals. The burden
becomes more complex when local authorities must contend with the flow of drugs
across our porous borders. While all of us are immigrants, as my grandparents
were, my grandparents passed through Ellis Island. Even the American Indians
were immigrants, crossing the Bering Strait land bridge from Asia.

If people cross into America seeking jobs, such as picking vegetables, I don't
think that it is unreasonable to demand that the federal government control our
borders and let the states institute guest-worker programs for job seekers.

The Obama administration is spending more time attacking the sovereign state of
Arizona rather than working with the states to solve this problem. A blanket
amnesty is not the answer.

ANTHONY F. CASSA

Palm Beach Gardens

Government won't act because politicians pander to ethnic vote

Your editorial in support of the Department of Justice lawsuit against Arizona
is pro-illegal immigration. Just what are the people of Arizona supposed to do?
Federal laws are supposed to keep U.S. citizens safe and keep our borders
secure. We all know this will never happen with this administration, because it
wants a certain ethnic vote. We will never see any sort of reform because
President Obama and his pals are pro-amnesty.

The best thing would be for every state to institute a bill the same or stronger
than Arizona's. I cannot see the Justice Department suing every state for
defending itself against criminals.

The feds will not do their job protecting Americans, so it's up to the states to
take over. The Palm Beach Post should stop siding with President Obama and the
pro-illegal administration and side with the American citizens who have to
endure the never-ending flow across our southern border.

KATHLEEN ECKEL

Indiantown

Pitts shouldn't bash Brewer without facts to dispute her drug claim

Columnist Leonard Pitts blasted Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer for saying that the
majority of people coming to Arizona are becoming drug mules. His message was
that she did not offer proof to back up her statement, and hence it was just
hearsay. The column shows that he is clueless about the real issue threatening
the United States due to illegal immigration.

Gov. Brewer's statement used the word "majority," which means more than 50
percent. That is very probable, due to the escalation of drug cartel violence
and the competition to control territory. Mr. Pitts' evidence was feedback from
the Border Patrol that stated "not every person" apprehended is being used as a
mule. Immigrants from Mexico violate federal law. Immigrants associated with
transportation of drugs further undermine U.S. security.

RON STEVENS

Jupiter

Government has program to import legal workers, so we won't starve

Two letter writers try to mislead us into thinking we are dependent on illegal
workers for our food supply, stating, "We would all be starving within a matter
of weeks without illegal immigrants." The government's H-2A visa program allows
any farmer to import an unlimited number of foreign workers. The program
requires the workers to be paid a slightly higher wage, so most farmers choose
not to utilize H-2A (see numbersusa.com). We don't need any farmworkers entering
our country illegally.

Also, many of our ancestors immigrated by a process, which included an interview
and a physical exam, that did not guarantee them entry. Just because they made
it through does not obligate us to accept anyone and everyone who attempts to
enter our country. We have a legitimate right and a responsibility to require
today's immigrants to go through a process as did our ancestors. We do not have
unlimited land and natural resources. Unlimited immigration is not sustainable.

DAVID SIMMS

Lake Worth

Sobriety, alien checkpoints not so different if your papers are in order

What is the difference between a police sobriety checkpoint and Arizona's new
immigration law? I say there is no difference.

Regarding a sobriety checkpoint: It is advertised ahead of time, you are
detained, asked to show your papers (i.e. driver license), and questioned.
Regarding Arizona's law: It is advertised ahead of time, you are detained, asked
to show your papers (photo ID), and questioned. U.S. citizens have had to
cooperate with the sobriety checkpoints for years. Why shouldn't illegal
immigrants have to cooperate with something similar?

THOMAS J. FLASCO

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC: IMMIGRATION -- U.S. VS. ARIZONA

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLL: MOST AMERICANS APPROVE OF NEW ARIZ. LAW

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A strong majority of Americans support Arizona's controversial new immigration
law and would back similar laws in their own states, a new McClatchy-Ipsos poll
found.

Sixty-one percent of Americans -- and 64 percent of registered voters -- said
they favored the law in a survey of 1,016 adults conducted May 6-9.

Strikingly, nearly half of Democrats like the law, under which local law
enforcement officers are tasked with verifying people's immigration status if
they suspect them of being in the country illegally. While the Democratic Party
generally is regarded as more sympathetic to illegal immigrants' plights, 46
percent of Democrats said they favored the law for Arizona and 49 percent said
they'd favor the law's passage in their own states.

More than eight in 10 Republicans and 54 percent of independents favor the law.

In addition, about 69 percent of Americans said they wouldn't mind if police
officers stopped them to ask for proof of their citizenship or legal rights to
be in the country; about 29 percent would mind, considering it a violation of
their rights; and about3 percent were unsure.

In the McClatchy-Ipsos poll, almost two-thirds of Americans said illegal
immigration was a real problem that hurt the country; they were evenly split as
to whether the jobs illegal immigrants take are ones that Americans don't want.

The poll had an error margin of plus or minus 3.07 percentage points.

Meanwhile, the Los Angeles City Council voted Wednesday to boycott Arizona
businesses, making Los Angeles the largest city to take such action to protest
the state's tough new law targeting illegal immigration.

The 13-1 vote, which came after emotional discussion in which several council
members recounted their immigrant ancestors, was largely symbolic since only a
small percentage of the city's business dealings are affected.

"An immigrant city, an international city, (Los Angeles) needs to have its voice
heard," Councilman Ed Reyes said. "It is crucial this great city take a stand."

The resolution is expected to be signed by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. It bars
the nation's second-largest city from conducting business or reaching new
contracts with Arizona businesses unless the immigration law is repealed, and
also prohibits most city business trips to the state.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

GRAPHIC:  REED SAXON/The Associated Press In Los Angeles:City council members
Janice Hahn and Ed Reyes talk with reporters Wednesdayafterapproving a
resolution that might include canceling contracts with Arizona.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

With words and wallets, Floridians show support for Arizona measure

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 871 words


When the Obama administration goes to court Thursday against Arizona's new
immigration enforcement law, Mark Benson of Jupiter will have a stake in the
outcome.

Not just a political stake, but a monetary one.

Benson is one of hundreds of Floridians who have contributed to a legal defense
fund for Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer because they support the law and want similar
legislation in Florida.

"When the federal government doesn't do its duty, then you have to shake it up,"
said Benson, 60, who donated $250 to the cause. "I believe it is important to
get the federal government to protect our borders."

The Arizona law, scheduled to take effect July 29, is seen by supporters as a
way to achieve just that. It requires state and local police to ascertain the
immigration status of anyone they stop for any reason -- including traffic
infractions -- if they have a "reasonable suspicion" that the person is in the
country illegally.

It empowers the officers to arrest people found in violation of immigration
laws.

Opponents have labeled the law racist and say it will be used to target Latinos.
The Obama administration has argued that the law violates the Constitution by
giving the state a role in immigration enforcement, a duty that it contends
should belong exclusively to federal authorities.

On Thursday, Justice Department attorneys will ask a federal judge in Arizona to
grant an injunction blocking implementation of the law. The administration hopes
the law eventually will be thrown out.

Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, a Republican candidate for governor, has
filed an amicus brief supporting Arizona in the legal battle. State Rep. William
Snyder, R-Stuart, has written a similar bill for Florida but plans to see what
happens in the Arizona case before deciding whether to introduce it to the
legislature in March.

According to polls, most Americans and most Floridians back the Arizona law.

As of Thursday, 24,767 people nationwide had given $1,149,088 in online
donations to the Governor's Border Security and Immigration Legal Defense Fund.
Of those, 1,336 Floridians had donated $64,582, placing the state fourth in
contributions behind Arizona, California and Texas.

"I'm proud to be on the list of donors," said Ronald J. Tiede, 63, an insurance
salesman from Lutz in Hillsborough County, who gave $50. "And it has nothing to
do with race. It has to do with legality. I grew up in a country of laws. I have
disagreed with some of those laws, but I have followed them. Let's be legal."

Jane Inden, 68, a retired travel agent from North Fort Myers, spoke about how
her husband had to flee Hungary after he joined an unsuccessful uprising against
the communist government in 1956.

"He came here, but he did it legally," said Inden, who donated $25. "I want
people to follow the law. I ask my friends, 'If those people don't follow the
law, why should I?'

"I don't understand why this president is going after Gov. Brewer," Inden said.
"I'm very proud of her and very unhappy with him. Why isn't he going after
people who aren't following the law?"

But Inden, who is of English, German and Swiss heritage and grew up on an
Illinois farm, said she also is bothered by what she sees as a shifting ethnic
balance in the country.

"I can't go anywhere without hearing Spanish," she said. "I don't like too many
people of one nationality coming in. We are losing our own country."

She is also angry about political tactics employed by the immigrant community,
especially large street demonstrations that began in 2006.

"That really made me mad," she said. "Those protests and people waving Mexican
flags."

Benson, an independent radio producer who also has done some cattle ranching,
said he has no problem with Mexicans or other Latinos.

"The Mexicans who come here are good people," he said. "We could have a lot
worse neighbors than the Mexicans."

But Benson disagrees with Obama administration proposals that would allow 12
million illegal immigrants now in the country to become legal residents and
possibly citizens.

"It wouldn't be just 10 or 12 million as they say," Benson said. "Once they
became citizens, then they could bring family members as well, so we're talking
maybe 50 million."

Immigrant rights activists put the numbers at about half that.

Benson also fears that the U.S. will build a permanent underclass, like the one
in Mexico, because some employers refuse to pay decent wages and attract U.S.
citizens willing to work. He especially faults farmers who insist they can't
afford to pay better wages.

Benson wants authorities to enforce laws against employers who hire undocumented
workers. But he also wants laws implemented that would let those employers apply
for special guest worker visas and bring in foreign workers legally and
temporarily, if needed, at decent wages.

Immigrant advocates have condemned the Arizona law, saying it could lead to some
states adopting similar measures while others don't, leading to confusion and
conflict across the country.

But Benson said backing the Arizona law is a way to force the federal
government's hand.

"The problem isn't the illegal aliens," he said. "The problem is the system that
creates illegal aliens. And that system has to change."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Arizona style' bill emerges in Florida ;
 'This is our law, not their law,' the attorney general says.GOP drafttargets
illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 922 words


Florida took a long step in the direction of Arizona on Wednesday, as far as its
attitude toward illegal immigrants is concerned.

Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, a Republican candidate for governor, and
state Rep. Bill Snyder, R-Stuart, introduced the draft of an "Arizona style"
immigration enforcement law that they hope the GOP-controlled legislature will
pass next year.

In some ways, the bill goes beyond Arizona in discouraging the presence of
undocumented immigrants within state boundaries.

"I support the Arizona immigration law," McCollum said at a press conference in
Orlando. "But this is our law, not their law. Arizona is going to want our law."

The controversial Arizona measure has divided that state and the nation.

Opponents say it will encourage racial profiling and are boycotting Arizona,
canceling conventions and other scheduled events. Some supporters have traveled
to Arizona specifically to spend money, and others have made donations to help
defend the state against a federal lawsuit.

Arizona's experience is relevant to Florida.

Florida is highly dependent on tourism and the agriculture industry, where most
of the workers are undocumented. It is unclear what the effect of the proposed
legislation would be on those sectors of the state economy.

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in
Miami, which has defended the interests of many undocumented immigrants
throughout South Florida, spoke out against the proposed bill and its possible
costs.

"Immigrant-rich Florida cannot afford a law that will create more confusion,
legal challenges and expense for all Floridians," Little said. "This bill would
hurt our economy, public safety and individual rights."

Polls have shown that a majority of Floridians favor an Arizona-style law. In a
Rasmussen Reports survey last month, 62 percent backed such a law, 24 percent
opposed it and 14 percent were not sure.

But any legislation faces serious hurdles before it becomes law. The Obama
administration has argued in federal court that the Arizona statute infringes on
the federal government's authority to enforce immigration law.

In July, a federal judge in Arizona blocked some parts of the law before they
took effect and is deciding whether they are constitutional.

Her decision will not be binding on Florida, but further challenges to the
Arizona law could affect implementation of a similar law here.

Like the Arizona law, Florida's would obligate law enforcement agents to ask
about the immigration status of people they encounter in the pursuit of their
duties when they have a "reasonable suspicion" that a person may be in the
country illegally.

The law would require that those law enforcement agents detain anyone in the
country illegally, and that those not under arrest for another crime be turned
over to federal immigration agents for possible deportation.

"This is not a law to expand law enforcement powers," McCollum said. Police and
sheriff's deputies already have the power to ask those questions, he said, but
the new law, like Arizona's, would require that they do so.

Unlike the Arizona measure, the Florida bill also would require judges to
increase the sentences of illegal immigrants found guilty of crimes over the
usual prescribed sentences.

For example, McCollum said, an illegal immigrant found guilty of a third-degree
felony would be sentenced as if he had been convicted of a second-degree felony.

Judges also would be required to check a person's immigration status before
deciding whether to release the person on bond.

"If you're an illegal, you would be more likely to flee," McCollum said.

The bill makes it a misdemeanor for an undocumented person to seek employment in
Florida and makes it unlawful for would-be employers to stop a vehicle in the
street to hire such workers, a common practice at day labor sites throughout the
state.

Eventually, the Florida bill would target all employers who hire illegal
immigrants and would suspend their state licenses to operate if they do not
remedy that practice.

As of Oct. 1, 2011, all employers in the state would be obligated to sign up
with Everify, an online system run by the federal government through which
employers can quickly ascertain whether a Social Security number is valid and
the prospective employee is legal.

Snyder said that in writing the bill, the Florida authors adhered to some
aspects of the Arizona law even though they had been blocked by U.S. District
Judge Susan Bolton, but had responded to other concerns.

In particular, Snyder said, the 29-page Florida bill has repeated rejoinders
against any ethnic or racial prejudice in the enforcement of the law.

But opponents of the bill weren't buying the wording.

"This a very troubling piece of legislation," said Brandon Hensler, spokesman
for the Florida chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. "This legislation
is contrary to American standards of fairness. Florida is one of the most
diverse states in the union, one of the most welcoming to immigrants, and this
would be racial profiling at its worst."

He also criticized the portion of the law that would incarcerate illegal
immigrants longer than U.S. citizens, saying taxpayers "are going to be spending
more money to implement a racist law."

Howard Simon, executive director of the Florida ACLU, accused McCollum of
"catering to prejudice" as part of his gubernatorial campaign.

"This is a calculated political judgment to endorse that can only be enforced by
racial profiling," Simon said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE Florida proposal's key points * Requires police to
ask about the immigration status of people they encounter in the pursuit of
their duties when they have a 'reasonable suspicion' that a person may be in the
country illegally. * Requires police to detain anyone in the country illegally
and turn over those not under arrest for another crime to federal immigration
agents for possible deportation. * Requires judges to increase the sentences of
illegal immigrants found guilty of crimes over the usual prescribed sentences. *
Requires judges to check a person's immigration status before releasing the
person on bond. Arizona provisions blocked U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton
blocked these provisions of Arizona's law: * Requiring an immigration status
check for all people arrested before release. * Forcing officers to make a
reasonable attempt to determine immigration status during any lawful stop. *
Making it a misdemeanor for an illegal immigrant to apply for work in the U.S. *
Allowing an officer to make a warrantless arrest if the officer had probable
cause to believe the person had committed an offense that makes the person
deportable. (Bolton's ruling is not binding in Florida)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

letters to the editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 1151 words


Serious about illegals? Target their employers

Those politicians who have been jumping on the bandwagon to support passage of
anti-immigration laws similar to Arizona's are hypocrites, feeding on the
masses' xenophobia to gain votes.

Border security? What about the Canadian border, and the Pacific and Atlantic
coasts? What is being done to secure them? These politicos want the people to
believe that they are working to stem illegal immigration when in reality all
they are doing is perpetuating the status quo by allowing those who use illegal
workers to continue increasing their profits by exploiting them. If these
politicians were truly committed to stopping illegal immigration, they would be
going after those who employ undocumented workers by imposing hefty financial
penalties and even jail time, all the way from the little housewife with the
illegal nannies and maids to the larger corporations that hire them to reduce
their overhead.

The largest users of illegal workers in our state are private families and the
service industry, such as hotels, restaurants and office cleaners. The illegal
immigrants do not come here to see Mickey or to sip margaritas on the beach;
they come to work. If they cannot find the work they will be forced to return on
their own to their countries of origin without having to use our police to chase
them away and without the added expense of incarceration and deportation.

JORGE DEL MAR

West Palm Beach

Profiling already exists,and we're the better for it

Arizona is being unfairly criticized for profiling. The police in every city and
state profile to a certain extent. Let's say an officer pulls a speeder over and
sees burglar tools in the car. Isn't he profiling if he presupposes the driver
might be a criminal?

Recently, an officer arrested a Miami Heat basketball player because the officer
thought he smelled marijuana. All states allow some leeway for the police to use
their own judgment.

If a policeman apprehends a serial killer by profiling and saves the lives of 20
women, then I'm for profiling, and I think the potential victims would be for
it, too. It may be a little embarrassing to be asked for papers, but that's
better than breaking the law.

If Mexicans here legally are upset over profiling and how it might embarrass
them by being stopped and questioned, they should tell the illegals they are
wrong and should go back to Mexico. That's what a good citizen of this country
would do, and the legal Mexicans, already here, should be good citizens because
they chose this country and they owe the United States to support its laws. If
you can't help this great country, at least don't hinder it.

JAMES HAMLIN

Jupiter

Rosh Hashana recipe erred in mixing meat, dairy

In Wednesday's Food & Accent section, I think the writer of the article "This
week's dish -- A Rosh Hashana dish: Beef brisket in gravy" should have put in a
bit more thought.

It is nice to see The Post's awareness of the upcoming Jewish holiday of Rosh
Hashana. I'm pretty certain this recipe was chosen because it is a favorite
Jewish holiday dish. However, I would doubt whether a Jewish family would
prepare this dish as the recipe suggests in step one -- "melt butter in a large
pot till sizzling and then brown the brisket over high heat."

For the uninformed writer of this dish, it would be very unusual for a Jewish
chef to brown brisket in butter. Most likely, he or she would use oil, because
mixing of meat and dairy is not acceptable. This especially is true during one
of the most revered holidays on the Jewish calendar.

TRINA CHARNESS

Boynton Beach

Brisket+butter=meshuga

I am a member of a Reform congregation in Palm Beach County, and I do not
maintain a "traditional" kosher home. Nonetheless, I was -- how shall I say it?
-- surprised, amazed, stunned, flabbergasted and horrified to see the featured
dish in Wednesday's Accent, "A Rosh Hashana dish: Beef brisket in gravy," with a
recipe that included...butter! ARRGGHHHHH!

EVE BARAK

Boynton Beach

Panic over class size misses point: Engage students

Despite the writing on the wall that the American education system is failing
our students, education experts continue to focus on class size as being the
main culprit for its failure, as in the story "Schools in a bind over class
size."

How quickly they forget one-room schoolhouses on the prairies, where students of
all ages felt privileged to be given a few hours off from their chores to learn
to read and write. Or the masses of immigrants whose children knew there would
be hell to pay if they didn't achieve, and obey, in school, and were also proud
to get the education their parents had been denied.

Today, instead, we have millions of bored students who are unwilling to learn,
or achieve, and choose, instead, dropping out as an option. It all boils down to
the necessity of education experts understanding, and accepting, that by the
completion of elementary school education, students who do not achieve a
specific percentile of literacy should be allowed to attend a tech school where
they can develop a job skill that will help promote their independence and also
give our country the workforce it must have to maintain its economic
superiority.

We have become a nation of rich lords who don't want us to see the writing on
the wall. It usually took a revolution to change this. Let's hope it doesn't
come to that.

CLAIRE FASS

West Palm Beach

Hernandez flouted policy; did Johnson look other way?

I have been extremely distressed by recent reports in The Palm Beach Post of
former Palm Beach County School District Chief Academic Officer Jeffrey
Hernandez's use of paid sick leave last winter and spring. While I did not read
it in the story, I have read the board policy on paid sick leave, and it is a
clear violation of district policy.

If Superintendent Art Johnson was aware of this abuse, did he violate board
policy by allowing this fraud?

P.W. KIMBALL

Jupiter

At least Bush took his vacation at his own ranch

There is no comparison between George W. Bush vacations and Barack Obama's
so-called "vacations." Mr. Bush frequented his personal ranch for rest and
relaxation, where the rent was free. Mr. Obama's latest "vacation" was at
Martha's Vineyard, where he, family and entourage rented a swanky 28.5-acre
estate. By the way, he is not renting anything. You and I are.

Mr. Obama is a self-indulgent president who is intent on getting his due while
in office and leaving the taxpayers to worry about the rest in the decades to
come.

JEFF NORMAN

Jupiter

Panhandle trip just for show

Am I the only person who thinks that President Obama should have not just made a
"show" of visiting the Panhandle for 24 hours, then retreating to the enclave of
Martha's Vineyard? Why not spend the entire vacation in the Florida region,
truly demonstrating that this area is OK, even good enough for the president and
his family, which it clearly was not?

TERESA LANDRY

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COM  THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S
MISSION: The news you need, the analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you
value.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA GROWERS WARN OF DANGER TO FOOD SUPPLY

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1106 words


Mike Carlton, labor relations director for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable
Association, is sometimes criticized for his position on U.S. immigration law.

The group, which represents most of Florida's large growers, supports the
legalization of undocumented farm laborers.

"What don't you understand about the word illegal?" critics ask him about the
immigrants.

"What don't you understand about the word eating?" is the retort that occurs to
Carlton, although he holds his tongue.

Amid a tide of anti-immigrant sentiment, the usually conservative agricultural
sector finds itself an unlikely champion of the undocumented worker.

Supporters of changes in immigration law say people who believe all undocumented
workers should be expelled from the country don't comprehend how that would
affect the availability and security of the U.S. food supply.

"We would be looking at an increase in the cost of food," Carlton said. "And we
would almost certainly end up going offshore for much of our food supply, which
would also mean having to worry about food safety."

Carlton and other proponents of legalizing farmworkers support a bill before
Congress called AgJobs, which could forge a path to documented, permanent
residency for those laborers.

Opponents say it amounts to amnesty for entering the country illegally. They
also say it doesn't do anything to increase border security.

Craig Regelbrugge, co-chairman of the Agricultural Coalition for Immigration
Reform in Washington, believes opponents don't recognize the main security
question associated with farm labor. "There would be shortages. Prices would go
up" if the U.S. expelled farmworkers, he said. "But we would also make ourselves
reliant for our food on other countries."

The U.S. Department of Agriculture says at least half of the people who pick
U.S. crops are undocumented. Others in the industry say it is closer to 70
percent.

With U.S. production crippled, Brazil would enthusiastically supply citrus and
Mexico would gladly sell vegetables, Regelbrugge said. But relations could sour
between the U.S. and those countries and leave the nation at the mercy of
foreign governments, he said.

Importing fresh milk would be difficult from the outset, said Ray Hodge,
director of governmental affairs for Southeast Milk in Marion County, which
markets milk produced by more than 100 Florida dairies.

"We supply all the milk to Publix," Hodge said. "If all those workers were
kicked out, in about a week there would be a crisis. ... Foreign-born workers
are the agricultural workforce in this country. Nobody else wants to do it."

The AgJobs bill would give temporary legal residence to about 1 million
undocumented farm laborers and roughly the same number of spouses and minor
children. Because Florida has the nation's second-largest agricultural economy,
after California, the measure could have a particularly strong impact here.

Applicants would have to prove they had worked a certain number of hours in farm
labor during the past two years. They would have to pay $500 in fines for
entering the country illegally and settle outstanding tax bills. Felons or those
with serious misdemeanor convictions would be excluded.

If they continued to work in agriculture a certain number of hours every year
for the next three to five years, they and their immediate families could apply
for permanent residence.

Critics complain that there are many unemployed Americans who would take the
jobs. Carlton's response: "We have found that not to be true. Even with 10
percent unemployment, agriculture cannot attract native-born Americans."

The work is often hot, backbreaking, isolated, seasonal and transient. Carlton
said some farmers have offered up to $15 an hour to U.S. citizens to work as
harvesters, much more than foreign workers make, but with little success.

Even though Americans may not want those jobs, the bill has positive employment
implications for U.S. citizens, he said: "It's a jobs bill for American workers,
because for every person working in the fields, there are two to three jobs
upstream that depend on that person." He cites equipment suppliers, truckers,
grocery clerks, restaurant workers.

The Obama administration wants comprehensive changes in immigration law, which
would make about 12 million eligible for legal residence. But with many
conservative candidates opposed to any widespread amnesty for the undocumented,
that seems unlikely to pass this year.

AgJobs supporters, however, express qualified hope that the more focused farm
labor bill could pass.

"Congress has to find the intestinal fortitude to do this," said Palm Beach
County farmer Rick Roth. "We're businessmen and we need to know we'll have a
labor force three, four, five years down the road."

Attorney Rob Williams of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth
helped write AgJobs and has spent years trying to get it adopted. He said the
bill could pass today in the House, but getting 60 votes in the Senate is iffy.

As for Florida's U.S. senators, the votes are split. Democrat Bill Nelson is a
co-sponsor of the bill. A spokesman for Republican George LeMieux said his boss
could not support AgJobs because it deals with only one industry and does not
address border security.

Carlton said that when the food security and cost aspects of AgJobs are
explained to voters, they support it. He said the issue should not be decided
along party lines, given the conservative nature of his organization and others
that support it.

"We represent farmers," he said. "We're not loaded with liberals here."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Undocumented farmworker applications

For legal status under the AgJobs bill:

1.Must have performed agricultural employment in the U.S. for at least 863 hours
or 150 workdays during the previous two years.

2. Must apply within 18 months after the application period begins.

3.Must be free of any felony convictions or any misdemeanor

convictions that involved bodily injury, threat of serious bodily injury, or
harm to property in excess of $500.

4. Must pay a fine of $100 for illegal entry into the U.S.

For subsequent permanent residence:

1.Must perform a certain number of hours of agricultural work per year after the
bill becomes law: for example, at least 100 days per year for five years or 150
hours per year for three years.

2. Must pay a fine of $400 for having entered the country illegally.

3. Must apply within seven years after the bill becomes law.

4. Must remain free of felony convictions, any disqualifying

misdemeanor convictions or any other act that would preclude admissibility into
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  LUIS M. ALVAREZ/2006 Associated Press file photo Tough labor:
Farmworkers pick tomatoes at Taylor & Fulton in Immokalee. Many agricultural
leaders support a bill that would allow permanent residency for farmworkers.
They say Americans don't want those jobs.CarltonRoth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group attacks Florida versio nof Arizona-style immigration bill

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 548 words


A coalition of state legislators, church leaders and immigrant activists on
Monday denounced popular efforts to pass an "Arizona-style" immigration law in
Florida, claiming it would spark racial profiling, violate civil liberties of
legal citizens and undocumented residents and hurt an economy dependent on
immigrant labor.

Florida Immigrant Coalition members, including South and Central Florida
legislators from both political parties, also said proponents of the Florida
bill are taking advantage of the election season to garner support for an issue
that should be handled by the federal government, not individual states.

"In a political year, policy and politics are getting confused, and I think this
may be the case here," said Rep. Esteban Bovo Jr., R-Hialeah, during a telephone
conference with media the day before the state's primary elections.

Florida and several other states are introducing bills that, like Arizona's new
law, would require law enforcement officers to ask about the immigration status
of people they stop when there is reasonable suspicion they may be in the
country illegally.

Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, a Republican candidate for governor, and
state Rep. Bill Snyder, R-Stuart, introduced a bill with similar provisions this
month, hoping the GOP-controlled legislature passes it next year.

Snyder said Monday that he was not surprised opponents of the immigration bill
consider his efforts a political tactic.

"It's just one of those charges that people throw out, to see if it sticks," he
said. "My sense is that there is substantial support for this initiative.
Changing Florida law is very difficult ... but I think it's certainly possible."

A Rasmussen survey last month showed that 62 percent of Floridians backed such a
law, with 24 percent opposed and 14 percent unsure.

Among the supporters is the South Florida Tea Party.

"I think once the November election is over with and the new session of the
legislature begins ... they will take it up and it will become law," said Tea
Party spokesman Tim McClellan of Pompano Beach. "I think it's long overdue."

During the coalition media conference, leaders said they do not think Florida
needs a law like Arizona's because the state does not have the same border
security and drug violence issues.

"Arizona's motive and the reason behind their actions is that they have a border
security issue," said Rep. Juan Carlos Zapata, R-Miami, chairman of the Florida
Hispanic Legislative Caucus. "It's important to differentiate between border
security and an immigration issue."

But supporters of the Florida bill say the state is a gateway for drug
traffickers and other illegal immigrants who come in through coastal waters.

"Tougher sentences on illegal aliens who engage in crimes such as gang violence
or trafficking will serve as a deterrent and keep all of our communities safer,"
McCollum said.

Some of the participants at the conference, including Mike Pheneger, chairman of
the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida, said they would consider
immediate legal action if the bill passes.

"This law is not just going to affect people who are not documented, it's going
to affect a wide range of people in Florida who have every right and every
reason to be here," Pheneger said.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More on Arizona's law  Check outrecent coverage.
PalmBeachPost.com/go/immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 482 words


Facts about illegals begin, end with 'illegal'

Re: Dan Moffett's column critical of Arizona's new immigration law, let's get
our facts straight.

An immigrant is a person who enters the United States with a valid visa through
a recognized port of entry. Illegal entrants are not immigrants.

Last year, 2 million illegal aliens filed tax returns using Individual Taxpayer
Identification Numbers. ITINs were meant for people living outside the U.S. who
have investments in this country. Assigning these numbers to illegals shows the
government's fractured approach to the undocumented workforce.

People say that when illegals fill their cars with gas they pay the same taxes
that native motorists do. Well, they are driving illegally. They don't have
valid driver licenses, and they probably are driving without insurance.

Any time the bleeding hearts try to argue the facts about illegals, the argument
has to stop at the word illegal. Anything said after that is moot.

JOHN KENDALL

Tequesta

News makes one ask: What's world coming to?

From the April 15 Local News section, Page 2B: "Teacher accused of fondling self
in restroom reinstated." It stated, "A Palm Beach County schoolteacher, who was
arrested in 2008 after a deputy said he saw the man fondling himself in a park
bathroom, was reinstated at a school board meeting Wednesday." After criminal
charges were dropped, "the Florida Division of Administrative Hearings
recommended that the school board reinstate (the teacher) to his previous
position with full back pay." The article goes on, "In 1994, (the teacher) was
arrested in Mississippi, where he was seen fondling himself in his car. He
pleaded guilty and was put on probation." Huh?

Also from the Local News section, Page 4B: "Pit bull kills infant next to
sleeping mom." "A pit bull terrier fatally mauled a 7-day-old baby Wednesday as
the child apparently lay next to his sleeping teenage mother." "The mother
...didn't discover Thomas James Carter Jr. was dead until a neighbor said she
knocked on the door and woke her around noon."

The article goes on, "The mother's brother ... said his sister was excited about
her pregnancy despite her young age, and even had a big baby shower. He said the
mother and father (Thomas James Carter, 21) were trying to be a family." "They
love each other," "he told the newspaper." Huh?

SCOTT CADMUS

Palm Beach Gardens

Wilson's family deserves better from sheriff

It is ridiculous that the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office istaking so long to
complete its investigation into the traffic accident that killed Scott Wilson.
The parents and loved onesof Scott deserve better, the public deserves better
and the sheriff's office knows better than to drag this case out.

The same goes for the office of the state attorney. When prosecutors get the
facts, they should be prepared to take swift action to ensure justice is served
expeditiously.

BOB FORTNEY

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEXT NASTY, NECESSARY FIGHT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 658 words


Maintenance workers at the Capitol may not be ready to hose down the walls and
clean up the mess from the health care debate before Congress and the Obama
administration move forward with immigration reform.

Several bills are expected within the next 30 days, and reformers will attempt
to find the tenuous balance between enhancing security and dealing with the 11
million illegal immigrants already in the country. Signs that the economy is
recovering brighten the atmosphere for an immigration fight. The illegal
workforce in the United States is estimated at around 8 million, and the
recession displaced many of them. As the economy picks up, employers will be
looking to bring back workers, and the government has at least a fighting chance
to have new rules in place as the rehiring begins.

Resolution of the House and Senate health care reform bills appears likely to
exclude any provisions for illegal immigrants, which underscores the need for an
immigration bill that creates a legal work force that gets its health insurance
at the workplace. The House version of the health care bill allows illegal
immigrants to use their own money and, without federal subsidy, buy health
insurance from an exchange. The Senate rejected the idea in its version.

The financial toll illegal immigrants take on the U.S. health care system is
relatively insignificant in dollars, but rich in political drama. The uninsured
and seriously injured migrant worker who shows up in the emergency room and
costs the hospital millions is a popular parable for political analysts that
makes good hyperbole but bad evidence. If all the illegal immigrants disappeared
tomorrow, studies show, the relief for the system would be minuscule, and the
problems of cost control and access for Americans just as bad as today.

If the illegal work force is put on a path toward legal status, it becomes more
politically palatable to allow immigrants to buy into insurance plans through
their employers. So, immigration reformers could complete the work that health
care reformers left undone.

The Obama administration has set the stage for the debate by maintaining the
enforcement pressure on illegal immigrants that the Bush administration
initiated. The government carried out about 370,000 detentions and deportations
during the fiscal year that ended in October, more than twice the number of a
decade ago. Security along the U.S.-Mexico border is tighter than it ever has
been.

There is no way to sell Congress on legalization and pass new laws without
demonstrating a willingness to enforce old laws. The economy has been an
enforcer itself. In October, Mexico's central bank reported a 36 percent decline
in remittances because of the U.S. recession, the sharpest drop in a decade.

There is no reliable estimate on how many foreign workers have returned to their
homelands because there is no work for them here. But the evidence of the exodus
is clear in immigrant neighborhoods such as the north end of West Palm Beach or
downtown Lake Worth where dozens of "For Rent" signs stand in front of
apartments once rented by Mexicans and Guatemalans.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has said repeatedly that the
administration's goal is to create a policy that is "tough and fair." The
deportations, detentions and economic doldrums have taken care of the tough
part. It's up to Congress to deliver on the much more difficult task of making
reform fair.

According to estimates, illegal workers contribute about $250 billion to the
U.S. economy each year with their labor and their consumption. Still, the system
treats illegal workers as an underclass. Congress has a rare opportunity to
change that and make sense of the immigration mess. But anyone who saw the
health care debate knows that these systemic, historic changes don't come
without all-out political warfare.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COPS CAN'T WALK ILLEGALS BEAT ;
 Immigration should be a federal responsibility.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 644 words


A key feature of the Bush administration's crackdown against illegal immigration
was something called the 287(g) agreement.

The provision had been an obscure part of a major immigration reform bill that
Congress passed in 1996. It allowed the federal government to form partnerships
with local police agencies to enforce immigration laws. In effect, 287(g)
agreements deputized city cops and county sheriffs as federal immigration
agents. The program grew from nothing to partnerships with 66 agencies across
the country. In Florida, the government signed up the Jacksonville, Bay County
and Collier County sheriff's offices, as well as the Florida Department of Law
Enforcement.

Until this month, it was unclear just how well these partnerships were working.
Then came a report from the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general.
It turns out that they're not working very well.

Federal auditors found that 287(g) officers often were poorly trained, didn't
understand immigration law or process and went after the wrong illegal
immigrants. Nannies get busted for U-turns and deported, while drug dealers and
violent offenders continue to exploit the system.

The report cited concerns about civil rights violations and a rash of lawsuits
alleging racial profiling, discriminating police practices and illegal searches
and seizures. It also found that the government did a poor job of vetting local
officers who joined the program, and that too many were unqualified for
immigration duty.

The Obama administration and DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano have said that they
are aware of the deficiencies in the 287(g) program and have taken corrective
measures that address the inspector general's findings. But the real question is
whether this idea is worth trying to fix.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement would do better to hire more federal agents
who are trained in immigration law and are under direct supervision of Homeland
Security. Immigration enforcement was always mandated to be a federal
responsibility, and too much of it has been delegated by default or by
experiment to local entities.

Part of comprehensive immigration reform should be the return of responsibility
for enforcement to the federal government, where the Constitution intends it to
belong. Anecdotes in the inspector general's report demonstrate how the 287(g)
experiment has gone wrong.

According to government auditors, police officers with "few or no foreign
language skills had interviewed and processed non-English-speaking aliens
without aid of interpreters." A survey found that 88 percent of officers had not
completed refresher training on immigration enforcement laws that are complex
and change constantly.

One of the worst 287(g) stories wasn't cited in the report. Several years ago, a
Nashville police officer arrested a 9-months pregnant Mexican woman for a minor
traffic violation. The woman was jailed because of her immigration status, and
then gave birth in a hospital room guarded by an officer. She was separated from
her newborn for two days. She was also separated from family and legal counsel.
It's hard to find an argument that her treatment warranted the expense, or that
it kept Tennesseans safer.

Though there are no 287(g) agreements with South Florida agencies, the stories
about the damage they have done elsewhere makes immigrant communities
apprehensive about working with police here. The roughly 160,000 illegal
immigrants the program has deported since 2006 aren't justification enough for
the mistrust spread between people who sooner or later are going to have to work
together.

The best thing the Obama administration can do with 287(g) is abandon it. Let
cops be cops and let Immigration and Customs Enforcement do the job that it was
created to do.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FINGERPRINT PLAN TARGETS CRIMINALS IN U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 794 words


Federal immigration authorities and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office on
Monday announced a new agreement to share fingerprint records, which they say
will help identify illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes, keep
them off county streets and remove them from the country.

According to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Palm Beach is the 24th
Florida county to enter into such an agreement, part of an initiative called
Secure Communities.

The agreement brought immediate criticism from the Florida Immigrant Coalition,
a statewide organization that includes members in Palm Beach County.

Immigrant advocates say collaborations between local law enforcement agencies
and federal immigration authorities have led to abuses of power and racial
profiling, and leave local authorities with less time to deal with common crime.

Focus on the immigration issue has been heightened by congressional Democrats'
push for a comprehensive immigration overhaul this term. A law adopted in
Arizona this month that would allow law enforcement officials to stop
individuals they suspect of being in the country illegally has brought the issue
to an even more fervent boil.

But Nicole Navas, a Miami-based ICE spokeswoman, differentiated the Palm Beach
County agreement from the offensive in Arizona.

"This is an initiative that focuses on criminal aliens who are the greatest
threat to our communities," she said, adding it would involve only undocumented
individuals who are already behind bars.

"We want local authorities to know who they have in their jails," Navas said.
"By focusing on those cases, you reduce the opportunities for racial profiling.
It is fingerprints that identify the criminals."

In the past, some illegal immigrants convicted of crimes were released after
their incarceration solely because law enforcement authorities had not
identified them as illegal immigrants.

"Some of those people go back out and commit more crimes," Navas said. "But now
we will have the fingerprints and they won't be able to hide under aliases.

"We will know who they are."

Fingerprints submitted by state and local law enforcement agencies will be
checked not only against FBI records but immigration biometrics records --
mainly fingerprints -- at the Department of Homeland Security.

"If fingerprints match those of someone in DHS' biometric system, the new
automated process notifies ICE, enabling the agency to take appropriate action
to ensure criminal aliens are not released back into communities," said a
statement from ICE. "Top priority is given to individuals who pose the greatest
threat to public safety, such as those with prior convictions for major drug
offenses, murder, rape, robbery and kidnapping."

Those are considered Level One offenses by ICE.

Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw endorsed the new collaboration.

"Our goal is to use biometric information sharing to prevent criminal aliens
from being released back into the community, with little or no additional burden
on our law enforcement partners," he said.

The statement cited the cases of two men identified as illegal immigrants
recently detained in Palm Beach County.

Sigefrid Clerge, 32, from Haiti, was arrested April 13 on charges of kidnapping,
cruelty toward a child and battery. His previous convictions include aggravated
battery on a pregnant victim.

Magdaleno Gonsales Campos, 29, from Mexico, was arrested April 9 on battery
charges. According to ICE, his previous convictions include burglary, grand
theft and cocaine trafficking.

Both men face detention by immigration authorities and deportation proceedings
once the state judicial system is finished with them.

But Subhash Kateel, a spokesman for the Florida Immigrant Coalition, said most
of the undocumented residents deported in the past as part of the Secure
Communities program were not guilty of serious crimes.

"Only 12 percent of those deported under the program fit ICE's own description
of serious crimes," Kateel said. "And many of the people deported were simply
arrested for certain crimes and not convicted of those crimes."

Navas disputed those figures. Since October 2008, when the Secure Communities
program began, about 18,000 Level One criminals have been detained and about
4,000 have already been deported, she said.

Many of those detained may not have been arrested for serious crimes but were
found to have convictions for serious crimes on their records, she said.

The Florida Immigrant Coalition will hold a news conference in Miami today to
denounce the Secure Communities program.

The group says the collaboration between ICE and local law enforcement agencies
has made illegal immigrants afraid of police and less likely to report crimes,
resulting in more crime, not less.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Bradshaw

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RUBIO IMMIGRATES TOWARD THE CENTER

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Commentary

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 297 words


The rational Rubio is making a comeback, at least on illegal immigration.

Senate candidate Marco Rubio last week expressed doubts about Arizona's law
allowing police to demand documents proving citizenship or legal immigration
status. "That's not really something that Americans are comfortable with," he
said, "the notion of a police state."

Courting right-wing voters when he was in a Republican primary against Charlie
Crist, Mr. Rubio sounded like a member of the Minutemen when he reversed himself
and said that illegals should not be counted in the 2010 Census. Not counting
illegals, though, wouldn't make them go away. If Florida didn't try to count
illegal immigrants for the census, Florida wouldn't get the federal help the
state is owed for services.

Mr. Rubio took his census stand in February, when Gov. Crist's primary hopes
weren't dead. By the time Mr. Rubio rapped the Arizona law last Tuesday, it had
become clear that Gov. Crist would bolt the GOP and run in the general election
with no party affiliation. Facing a three-way contest against Gov. Crist and
likely Democratic nominee U.S. Rep. Kendrick Meek, Mr. Rubio needed to start
wiggling closer to the center.

In addition, Mr. Rubio, as the son of Cuban immigrants, has that special Florida
perspective on immigration. Because federal immigration policy favors Cubans,
Florida has a lot of legal immigrants. A policy such as Arizona's that sets up
Hispanics for harassment would be particularly unpopular here.

As close as Arizona is to the drug war in Mexico, the state's concern about
illegal immigration is understandable. So is frustration with the federal
government's inaction on controlling the border. But Arizona's response is the
wrong response, as the rational Mr. Rubio pointed out.

-- Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FLORIDA THOUGHT OF THE WEEK

GRAPHIC:  Rubio

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TALK BACK;
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1121 words


Stop pandering and get a plan

It disgusted me that many Democratic congressmen rose to applaud President
Felipe Calderon of Mexico when he attacked the Arizona law regarding illegal
aliens.

Neither Democrats nor Republicans have developed a plan to stem the tide of
illegal aliens coming into America and how to deal with the 12 million-plus
already here. It is time that an acceptable solution is developed. These illegal
aliens are draining our infrastructure, which is adding to the budget crisis in
states such as California, as well as Arizona..

Our government has developed a dual approach toward immigration, letting legal
immigrants go through the procedures to enter America and allowing millions to
sneak in, while both federal and state governments look the other way. We
citizens are saddled with the cost of these people.

It is time that Congress stopped worrying about reelection and started worrying
about the welfare of Americans. Congress passed our immigration laws, and
Congress is required to see that they are enforced. You can't obey some laws and
disregard others.

ANTHONY F. CASSA

Palm Beach Gardens

No free lunch for past generations

My grandmother came here from Poland in 1900. She had six kids, no health care,
no free money. She lived poorly, but lived to 89. The old-timers would never
have thought of taking free money. I have never received any free money myself.

If Mexicans want to come here, let them do it legally. When we go to Mexico, we
need to have documentation. We need a whole lot more help in Iraq, so maybe we
could put them in uniforms.

ALICE CIAGO

Boca Raton

Is stopping refugees profiling? No.

Is our Coast Guard guilty of racial profiling when they stop boats loaded with
people trying to come to Florida? I think not.

PETER EVANS

Wellington

Mexico's laws tougher than ours

Mexican President Felipe Calderon criticized Arizona's immigration law, and
supports amnesty for all illegal aliens from Mexico residing and working in our
nation.

But Mexico has very strict immigration laws. The Bureau of Immigration can call
upon any law-enforcement officer to assist in its mission. U.S. citizens without
proper documents, work permits or non-immigrant visas are subject to arrest.
Foreigners with fake papers, or who enter Mexico under false pretenses, may be
imprisoned. Foreigners who sign government documents "with a signature that is
false or different is subject to fine and imprisonment." How do you spell
hypocrisy? Calderon.

There are an estimated 2 million people here who have overstayed their visas,
along with an estimated 500,000 illegal aliens who have ignored orders from
immigration judges to leave. Immigration reform? How about enforcing our current
laws and sending these people home?

JOHN KENDALL

Tequesta

Arizona should take Mexico's lead

Arizona made a major mistake in having its legislature pass that tough
immigration bill and having the governor sign it. Its passage has generated
hatred, recriminations and cancellations. Arizona should have taken the
immigration law of Mexico, have it translated from Spanish to English, and then
enacted it. Admittedly, the result would have been a far more stringent law and
far more severe on illegals. But, then, who could complain?

How about Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum proposing that? It surely would
be the initial step in protecting our state's borders. Maybe Congress would get
the word and follow suit. But don't bet on either happening.

ROGER F. MORAN

Hobe Sound

Better law takes onus off police

Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum has suggested that Florida should pass a
law similar to Arizona's new immigration statute. Arizona led the way in
allowing police officers to enforce federal immigration laws through the 287(g)
program. Florida should think twice.

The Arizona statute requires police to determine the immigration status of
everyone they stop or arrest, whenever a "reasonable suspicion exists that the
person is an alien who is unlawfully present in the United States..." If
officers enforce the law as written, they will inevitably have to detain and
question citizens and lawful residents.

Having police enforce immigration laws may sound like a great idea to state
legislators far removed from the actual enforcement. But John Harris, president
of the Arizona police chiefs association, opposes the statute because of its
impact on cash-strapped law-enforcement agencies.

Chief Harris also warned that the law may cause some crime victims to avoid
contacting the police. Research has shown that local immigration enforcement
discourages some from reporting crimes. This statute will leave immigrants
without the protection of local police and leave police without useful
information from immigrant communities.

Instead of following Arizona, Florida legislators should take the opposite
approach. The Bill of Rights Defense Committee has proposed a model ordinance
that protects residents' civil liberties. It limits officers' participation in
immigration enforcement and domestic surveillance, while creating transparency
in law enforcement to prevent racial profiling. Rather than exploit
anti-immigrant sentiment, legislators should give police the tools they need to
ensure public safety. Local police should focus on investigating dangerous
crime, not rooting out illegal immigrants.

BILLY CORRIHER

Northampton, Mass.

Editor's note: Billy Corriher is an attorney for the Bill of Rights Defense
Committee.

Jupiter saw light, dealt with facts

The inability of our federal government to effectively deal with immigration
issues is attributable to hard-line positions on both sides of the public debate
and the willingness of federal officials to do nothing year after year after
year.

Doing nothing was not an option for Jupiter. It began with a unifying vision
founded upon shared values, which led to the establishment of the El Sol
Neighborhood Resource Center. Positive changes quickly occurred when our
immigrant residents were encouraged to come out of the shadows and into the
light.

Beneficial reforms can be achieved if legislators truly understand how
communities have dealt with undocumented immigrants and help to change false
public perceptions about immigrant residents and advocacy support groups.
Constructive debate should begin with acceptance of these facts:

* Immigrant residents perform work and services that many American citizens
don't want to do;

* Everyone agrees with the need to have secure borders;

* Immigrant residents do pay taxes to local governments;

* Immigrant residents are eager to learn and speak English;

* Immigrant residents do work to assimilate into a community and contribute
towards its betterment.

JIM KURETSKI

Jupiter

Editor's note: Jim Kuretski is a Jupiter town councilman.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC: ARIZONA'S IMMIGRATION LAW Talk back at
www.PalmBeachPost.com/opinion Click on Letters to the Editor What do you think?
Tell us.

GRAPHIC:  PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/AP Mexican President Felipe Calderon
addresses a joint session of Congress May 20 on Capitol Hill. Behind him are
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Joe Biden.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Face facts on immigration ;
 Mother's case shows need to move beyond myths.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 547 words


Just as the controversy sparked by Arizona's new anti-illegal immigration law
unhelpfully steers the debate back to myths and stereotypes about illegal
immigrants, along comes the story of Claudia Mendez and her mother, Teresa, to
debunk them.

Start with the myth that all illegal immigrants are from Mexico. Like an
estimated 60 percent to 75 percent of illegal immigrants, Teresa did cross that
border to get here. She is not, however, Mexican. She is Guatemalan.

As The Post's John Lantigua reported Monday, Teresa crossed the border in
California, without her parents or siblings, to escape her homeland's civil war
that lasted from 1960 until 1996 and got especially violent in the early 1980s,
when Guatemalans began arriving in this area. "I had a choice," Teresa told Mr.
Lantigua. "I could either leave Guatemala, or I could stay and the guerrillas
could kill me when I refused to go with them. They had done it to others."

There goes that myth about all illegal immigrants coming here solely to steal
jobs from Americans.

Guatemalans fleeing the civil war settled in Indiantown, then Lake Worth, where
Teresa raised six children.

She recently moved to Alabama, however, and spends most days locked inside her
house, afraid to leave for fear that authorities might pick her up and enforce a
deportation order issued several years ago when she failed to attend an asylum
hearing that she learned of too late.

Aileen Josephs, her West Palm Beach attorney, said Teresa is one of many
immigrants taken advantage of by notaries who processed their paperwork for
asylum but never followed through with notification of hearings. The deportation
order, she said, is almost impossible to overturn, even though all of Teresa's
six children are U.S.-born citizens.

The oldest is a petty officer in the U.S. Navy who has served in Iraq. Claudia
Mendez, 21, bought a house for her mother and younger siblings, and has
petitioned for her mother to get a green card. The deportation order stands in
the way. "Ms. Mendez is risking her life for her nation and fighting for our
freedoms," Ms. Josephs said, "while her mother lives in fear of leaving her home
and being deported to a country she left at age 14, over 20 years ago, at the
height of the civil strife there."

If Republican U.S. Senate nominee Rand Paul of Kentucky had his way, Ms. Mendez,
who awaits deployment to Afghanistan, wouldn't be a citizen. "We're the only
country I know that allows people to come in illegally, have a baby, and then
that baby becomes a citizen," Mr. Paul told a Russian news channel. "And I think
that that should stop also."

Mr. Paul refers to "birthright citizenship," granted under the 14th Amendment to
children born here, even if their parents are here illegally. Teresa's daughter,
Ms. Mendez, busts any myths that such children don't grow into productive
"citizens." The issue also distracts from the real priority, which should be
immigration reform in Congress, not laws that turn local police into immigration
police.

"It will cost our nation over $340billion to deport 12 million human beings, not
to mention the moral costs and the human suffering," Ms. Josephs said.
"Comprehensive immigration reform, on the other hand, will be economically
beneficial to our nation." That's not a myth. It's a fact.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration introspection ;
 What the new Arizona law might produce.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 647 words


It's risky business to ask Americans what they think about immigration reform
because the answers are often too twisted to make much sense.

A recent Washington Post/ABC News poll sought to find out what the country
thought about the new Arizona law that gives police the power to detain people
who cannot show proof that they are here legally. The results were predictably
contradictory.

A strong 58 percent of respondents approved of the Arizona law. But the
pollsters also asked whether the government should create a pathway to permanent
residency or citizenship for the 11 million illegal immigrants living the
country. A similarly strong 57 percent of respondents said they approved of
letting illegal immigrants stay here, if they cleared background checks, learned
English and paid fines. Also, 46 percent said they thought it was a bad idea for
states to be passing their own immigration laws, instead of leaving it to the
federal government.

It's hard to reconcile a point of view that wants to see a crackdown against
illegal immigrants and also a plan for them to stay in the country permanently.
Yet the poll suggests that Americans are conflicted and frustrated enough about
immigration that they are willing to try most anything to fix the system.

Some of the response isn't as much an endorsement of the Arizona law as it is a
vote of empathy for a border state that is stuck on the front lines of the
problem and isn't getting the help it needs from Washington. Many critics who
believe that the law promotes racial profiling and infringes on the rights of
U.S. citizens also believe that some good will come out of it as an unintended
consequence.

The cry for help from Arizona could be loud enough to get Congress to move on
comprehensive immigration reform legislation that has stalled once again during
the political fighting over recession, health care, financial regulation and the
oil catastrophe. Nothing will happen until after the November election, but hope
remains for movement on a bill by next spring.

Another unintended benefit of the Arizona law is self-examination. The law has
forced communities across the country to take a look at themselves and consider
their own ethnic and racial issues.

Last week, Lake Worth city commissioners debated late into the night before
approving a resolution that expressed opposition to the Arizona law and any
attempt to pass a similar measure in Florida. Dozens of cities and
municipalities in other states have passed similar resolutions, but only a few
can come close to Lake Worth when it comes to the complexities of ethnic makeup.
With significant populations of Mexicans, Guatemalans, Hondurans, Cubans,
Haitians, Finns and French-Canadians, Lake Worth is a mosaic of humanity that
sometimes seems too diverse to be governable. But four of five commissioners
found common ground after discussion that was often heated.

Lake Worth has been on the record as supporting immigration reform for some
time. In 2004, the city commission passed a resolution saying "America's
approach to undocumented residents appears to be inconsistent and disorganized"
and the federal government needed to make changes.

That plea ignored, Lake Worth denounced the Arizona approach because it
"unfairly targets members of the Latino community and other minority
communities." If Florida were to clone the law, the feeling among Lake Worth
commissioners is that their city really would become ungovernable.

The Washington Post/ABC News poll also asked people who they blamed for the
illegal immigration mess. An overwhelming 75 percent cited the federal
government's failure to secure the borders. Lake Worth reached that conclusion
six years ago, and last week city commissioners had the good sense to embrace
diversity rather than divisiveness.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. suit challenges Arizona law ;
 The case could block Florida from adopting a similar immigration measure.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 728 words


The Obama administration on Tuesday filed suit against Arizona, challenging the
state's controversial law that targets illegal immigrants, and in doing so it
also created a potential roadblock to the adoption of a similar law in Florida.

The Arizona law is to take effect July 29. It requires state and local police to
ascertain the immigration status of anyone they stop for any reason, including
traffic infractions, if they have a "reasonable suspicion" the person is in the
country illegally. It empowers the officers to arrest people found in violation
of immigration laws.

The law has attracted strong support from many Americans, especially those
demanding greater border security. It also has kicked up a firestorm of
criticism from others who label it racist against Latinos.

Some opponents have promoted tourism boycotts and other economic punishments
against Arizona.

In a federal lawsuit filed in Phoenix, the Justice Department called the Arizona
law unconstitutional. The government seeks an injunction to delay its
implementation and ultimately wants the law thrown out.

The suit contends that the Arizona measure violates the Supremacy Clause of the
Constitution, which says federal laws override state laws. It is illegal under
federal law to be in the country without legal permission, but Arizona is the
first to make it a state crime and add its own punishment and enforcement
tactics.

"The nation's immigration laws reflect a careful and considered balance of
national law enforcement, foreign relations and humanitarian interests," the
suit states. "A state may not establish its own immigration policy or enforce
state laws in a manner that interferes with the federal immigration laws. The
Constitution and the federal immigration laws do not permit the development of a
patchwork of state and local immigration policies throughout the country."

One of the states that has considered adding to that patchwork is Florida.

State Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, has drawn up a bill based on the Arizona
law that he planned to introduce during the next legislative session in March.

"We have the language of our bill in draft form and we will wait and see what
happens in Arizona," Snyder said Tuesday. "It could be that the court finds the
Arizona law improper due to the language it uses. In that case, we could alter
our language."

But Snyder allowed that the court also could reject the law on more substantive
constitutional grounds. "In that case, we wouldn't be able to adopt the law here
either," he said.

Snyder has been assisted in drawing up the bill by the office of Florida
Attorney General Bill McCollum, a GOP candidate for governor.

McCollum attacked the federal suit Tuesday.

"Today, the Obama administration wrongly chose to subvert the will of the people
of Arizona," he said. "As a result of the federal government's failure to secure
our borders, states like Arizona have had no choice but to take matters into
their own hands and pass legislation to protect their residents and communities.

"If the federal government were to do more to enforce existing immigration laws,
states like Arizona and Florida would not have to compensate for its
shortcomings."

McCollum's rival in the Republican primary, Rick Scott, also supports the
adoption of an Arizona-style law. Democratic candidate Alex Sink opposes it.

Also opposed to both the Arizona law and any attempt to copy it in Florida is
the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center of Miami, which represents immigrants
throughout South Florida.

The center applauded the federal lawsuit.

"We're on notice that Florida legislators are planning to follow Arizona's
lead," Executive Director Cheryl Little said. "Hopefully the ... lawsuit will
send a powerful message that immigration laws are a federal responsibility."

Arizona legislators have said they had no option but to enact the law because
Congress has refused to seal the border with Mexico or enact laws that might
create a path to legalization for undocumented immigrants.

State Rep. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Phoenix, who opposes the state law, said the suit
should help settle questions over what states can do when they don't think
federal laws are being adequately enforced.

"I hope this galvanizes Congress to gain the moral courage they need to address
this crisis," Sinema said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrationseparates two GOP hopefuls ;
 Primary foesdisagree on how to handle illegal immigrants.

BYLINE: By MITRA MALEK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 828 words


Two political newcomers are vying to win the Republican primary next month and
seize a chance to oust Democratic state Rep. Joseph Abruzzo from his District 85
seat.

The candidates, both steeped in religious schooling, have different views about
several issues, with the clearest difference on the controversial issue of
illegal immigration.

Tami Donnally, a religious school administrator in Greenacres, said she would
support state legislation similar to Arizona's new immigration law, which will
require police, while enforcing other laws, to check a person's immigration
status if there's a reasonable suspicion that they are in the U.S. illegally.

"If you're stopped for something, you have to produce paperwork," she said.
"That makes sense to me."

Her opponent, D.J. DeRenzo, said he wouldn't support such a law in Florida.

A Wellington polo fields maintenance worker who was educated in a seminary,
DeRenzo spends days alongside immigrants from Central America. That has helped
him master Spanish, a skill he thinks is important because of the nation's
changing demographic.

"I'm a big fan of embracing immigrants," said DeRenzo, who calls himself a
"bleeding-heart Republican" for 26 years. "It would be disingenuous for me to
throw them under the bus.

"I make a definite distinction between a person who is weed-eating for $5 an
hour and someone who's here illegally and involved in violent crime and fraud,"
said DeRenzo, who supports deporting only those illegal immigrants who commit
violent crimes.

Both candidates support mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. Florida law
requires an ultrasound for a pregnant woman in the second trimester who is
considering abortion, and the legislature passed a bill this year requiring the
same of women in the first trimester, but Gov. Charlie Crist vetoed it.

"Women need to be educated as best they can before making that life-changing
decision," said Donnally, who opposes abortion.

DeRenzo doesn't believe abortion should be illegal, but is in favor of anything
that will help women come to a better decision about whether to terminate a
pregnancy.

"Obviously we are shooting for the day no one has abortions," DeRenzo said.
"That's unrealistic."

Donnally ranks job generation high on her list of priorities and wants to
provide tax cuts and tax incentives to draw businesses to the state.

"Florida is not such a friendly place to do business," she said. "We need to
give small business owners a break."

DeRenzo prides himself on being a "fair-minded people person" who is ready to
mend divisiveness and lend a hand -- to the homeless, for example, by pushing
for resource centers. "We need to find a way to help them," he said.

Donnally wants to help youths find careers. "They need a better way of having a
vision of what their career can be."

She also supports charter schools: "The more competition we have among those
schools, the stronger it will make other schools."

DeRenzo doesn't think the FCAT is particularly valuable.

"I know we need some standardized thing to know how kids are doing, but to me
education is more than reading, writing and arithmetic," he said. "It has to do
with how to socialize and be with people, too."

~mitra_malek@pbpost.com

State House District 85

Term: Two years.

Salary: $29,697.

These candidates are running in the Republican primary Aug. 24. Early voting
begins Aug. 9 and absentee voting began July 12. The winner will face Rep.
Joseph Abruzzo, D-Wellington, in the Nov. 2 general election.

D.J. DeRenzo

Personal: 43, of suburban Lake Worth; married, one child.

Education: Bachelor's degree, philosophy, St. John Vianney College Seminary.

Professional: Polo field maintenance worker, Everglades Polo Club, 2005-present;
sports field maintenance worker, Lantana, 2003-2005.

Political: First run for elected office.

Issues: Opposes Florida immigration legislation similar to Arizona's new law and
believes only illegal immigrants who commit violent crimes should be deported;
supports requiring ultrasounds for women considering abortion, but doesn't
believe abortions should be illegal; supports teacher tenure; supports more help
for the homeless population; supports legalizing blackjack at the Palm Beach
Kennel Club; supports regulation of pain management clinics.

Tami Donnally

Personal: 50, of suburban Lake Worth; married, one child, two grandchildren.

Education: Bachelor's and master's degrees in religious education, Evangelical
Bible College and Seminary.

Professional: EBC Ministries/Greenacres Christian Academy: ministry
administrator 2003-present, principal 1997-2002, teacher 1985-1996, classroom
aide, 1980-1982.

Political: First run for elected office.

Issues: Supports Florida immigration legislation similar to Arizona's new law;
supports ultrasounds for women seeking abortions; opposes teacher tenure;
supports merit pay for teachers but believes they should be evaluated on
end-of-course exams, not the FCAT; supports tax cuts and tax incentives to draw
more businesses to the state.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Federal judge blocks parts of Arizona law ;
 Local immigrants are relievedbut realize the battle, including in Florida,
isn't over.

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 904 words


South Florida immigrants viewed with relief a federal judge's decision Wednesday
to block provisions of an Arizona law that would step up enforcement against
people suspected of being in the country illegally.

Others saw the injunction as a Band-Aid that could slip off as the legal battle
between the federal government and the state proceeds, and as Florida
legislators prepare a law similar to Arizona's.

Arizona plans to implement its immigration law today, minus the most
controversial provisions.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton blocked portions of SB 1070 that require
immigrants to carry their documents at all times and officers to check
immigration status while enforcing other laws. Other provisions on hold would
make it illegal for undocumented workers to solicit employment in public places
and allow officers to make warrantless arrests of suspected illegal immigrants.

"Preserving the status quo through a preliminary injunction is less harmful than
allowing state laws that are likely preempted by federal law to be enforced,"
the judge said.

Manuel Guerra Casas, 26, an undocumented Mexican immigrant who lives in
Indiantown, said, "Although it's not a total triumph, it's one that calms me.
But I worry that down the road, the folks in Arizona and those who support this
law will challenge the federal government."

Others said they fear immigration bills in Florida may gain momentum if
Arizona's law isn't addressed in its entirety. The judge did leave intact parts
of the law, such as a ban on "sanctuary cities," and the criminalization of
hiring day laborers who are in the U.S. illegally. Sanctions for employers who
hire illegal immigrants also survived.

"That injunction that was granted does not strike down or even block a lot of
the portions of that law. It's not a complete victory," said Emmanuel Llpez,
coordinator for the ANSWER Coalition, which advocated against the law.

Florida supporters of the Arizona effort said the ruling did not discourage
them.

State Rep. Kevin Ambler, R-Tampa, plans to introduce a version of the Arizona
law during the legislature's special session in September.

"This is a preliminary injunction and not a final determination," he said. "It
doesn't mean the law has been thrown out."

Ambler said that even if Bolton eventually strikes part of the law, her ruling
wouldn't be binding in Florida because she is from a different circuit. "If
there is a legal challenge to our bill, we would have a different federal judge
who could have a different view," he said.

But he plans to use the ruling and the arguments made in Arizona for guidance in
drafting his bill. "We may make some changes," Ambler said.

Bolton seemed concerned about individuals' rights being infringed upon by
time-consuming stops by police checking legal status, Ambler said. But his
version includes language mandating "quick field assessments" that would
preclude lengthy stops, he said.

State Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, said he plans to introduce a bill during
the legislature's regular session next spring.

"As of now, nothing has changed for us," he said Wednesday. "We will watch what
the appellate court does in Arizona."

Arizona is expected to immediately appeal the decision to the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in San Francisco.

Florida's Republican gubernatorial candidates, Rick Scott and Bill McCollum,
were critical of Bolton's ruling.

"It just doesn't make sense for a judge to prohibit police from doing their job
and asking people they arrest to show proof that they are here legally," Scott
said. "The Arizona law is right and as I've said many times before, as governor
I'll bring the Arizona law to Florida."

McCollum, Florida's attorney general, recently signed a brief supporting the
Arizona law. He said he would continue working with Snyder on Florida's
legislation.

"The Obama administration continues its efforts to strip rights away from our
states, and we should all be very concerned about these repeated intrusions,"
McCollum said in a statement.

The Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant Rights plans to deliver a letter
to McCollum's West Palm Beach office this morning and has scheduled a rally for
5 p.m. Saturday to protest SB 1070 in front of McCollum's office.

Alex Sink, Florida's chief financial officer and a Democratic candidate for
governor, said that regardless of the Arizona ruling, the federal government
needs to work with the states to crack down on illegal immigration and adopt a
comprehensive immigration policy.

"Unfortunately, the federal government has failed to secure our borders and
aggressively pursue a solution to illegal immigration," she said.

In South Florida, people on both sides of the issue found hope in the ruling.

"The document doesn't say that working illegally is now legal. It says police
cannot be ordered to ask people about their immigration status, but it doesn't
prohibit them from doing it, either," said Mark Benson of Jupiter, an
independent radio producer who contributed $250 to Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer's
legal defense.

Howard Simon, executive director of the Florida American Civil Liberties Union,
said he was not surprised a federal judge would side with the U.S. government on
an immigration issue. When Ambler files his bill, "the ACLU will respond here in
Florida basically the same way it did in Arizona," he said.

Staff writer George Bennett contributed to this story.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Premature and political

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 591 words


As state Rep. William Snyder tells it, the immigration bill he unveiled
Wednesday is for the illegal immigrants' own good. But the bill's timing and
content create what might be called a "reasonable suspicion" that the bill
really is for Attorney General Bill McCollum's benefit.

Mr. McCollum, who saw Rick Scott ride support for an Arizona-style immigration
law to a lead in the Republican gubernatorial primary, was effusive in his
support for Rep. Snyder's bill. It would require police in Florida to determine
immigration status when they have a "reasonable suspicion" that someone is in
this country illegally. Rep. Snyder, R-Stuart, said Thursday in an interview
that he was motivated by "a profound sense that the underground, shadow world of
the illegals was profoundly unfair ... and un-American." Society, he said, "is
thriving on the backs of these people ... "

We agree that illegal immigrants are exploited by employers who cheat them and
criminals who rob them. But providing a path to legal status is the way to solve
that problem. Incarceration and deportation -- the only "solutions" in Rep.
Snyder's bill -- don't bring any light to the "shadow world." Rep. Snyder
acknowledged as much, but said the rest is up to Congress.

Exactly. That's because immigration law and enforcement are federal government
responsibilities. A federal judge has blocked part of Arizona's law, and the
dispute certainly is headed to the Supreme Court. Why not wait for the courts to
sort out what powers, if any, the states can exercise?

Rep. Snyder said he acted now because he needs to attract a Senate sponsor for
the March session. He won a new term without opposition, so his own election
isn't an issue. The issue is helping Mr. McCollum, the GOP leadership's
preferred candidate.

Rep. Snyder said, "There's not enough time to vet this issue" to bring it up at
any September special session on the BP oil spill. He's right, but nothing could
stop others from pushing similar or identical legislation.

There are many problems with this bill that "seeks to discourage and deter the
unlawful entry and presence of aliens and economic activity by persons
unlawfully present in the United States." Floridians who stop their cars to pick
up people seeking work -- as well as the people waiting for work, illegal
immigrants or not -- would become criminals. Businesses face penalties if they
don't verify legal status, but federal law already requires that. And how much
more work does the legislature want to give cash-strapped local law enforcement
by turning cops into immigration agents?

As an unintended consequence, Floridians worried about the cost of illegal
immigrants would pay to incarcerate them, possibly for a long time. The law
would increase the potential prison time for crimes such as robbery when illegal
immigrants commit them. Technically, the bill requires them to pay for their own
incarceration. But how can they do that when it's also illegal for them to seek
work?

According to Rep. Snyder, House lawyers who worked on the bill tried to address
criticisms by the federal judge who issued an injunction against the Arizona
law. But the provision allowing police to ask about immigration status after
stopping someone for an unrelated offense remains. Our reading is that this bill
is not different enough from the Arizona law to withstand a constitutional
challenge in the months ahead. But Mr. McCollum doesn't care about anything past
Nov. 2. Call it political exploitation.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz.-style law would spread injustice, protesters warn

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Chanting and waving signs, more than 100 church members and immigrant advocates
marched down Clematis Street Saturday, calling on the federal government to
extend new rights to illegal immigrants and warning state lawmakers not to enact
a law similar to a controversial one in Arizona.

The demonstrators, brought together by the Church of All Nations of Boca Raton,
came from churches and nonprofits as far away as Indiantown and Port St. Lucie
with demands for "comprehensive immigration reform."

Most expressed concerns that Florida politicians might enact a version of an
Arizona law that expands police departments' ability to investigate and arrest
illegal immigrants, a power traditionally held by federal agents.

Others were more concerned about persuading Congress to extend rights to illegal
immigrants already in the country so they can pay taxes, work in legal jobs, buy
homes and better assimilate themselves into American culture.

"It's about getting those 12 million people out of the shadows," said Aileen
Josephs, a West Palm Beach immigration attorney and activist.

The Rev. Mark Boykin of the Church of All Nations, the event organizer, warned
the crowd that if an immigration law like the one in Arizona is passed in
Florida, people from churches and charity groups could be arrested for
transporting illegal immigrants.

Arizona lawmakers have said, however, that state's law was intended to fight
human smugglers, not charity groups, and that it would not affect them.

"It wasn't meant for ordinary people," Arizona state Rep. John Kavanagh, who
sponsored a version of the bill, told The Arizona Republic this month.

Some critics of the Arizona law and the proposals for a Florida version say they
feel the law discriminates against Hispanics.

A Mason-Dixon poll commissioned by the Sun Sentinel and Orlando Sentinel this
month found that Hispanic voters in Florida are almost evenly split in their
feelings about the law. Forty-seven percent of Florida Hispanics support it
while 46 percent oppose it, the poll found.

But many have concerns. Nary Escalante, a Guatemalan native who lives in West
Palm Beach, watched the rally while his daughter held up a sign denouncing the
Arizona law.

He said even though he is a legal resident, he worries about any law that
encourages police to pull over drivers who appear to be Hispanic.

"If that law comes here, it's going to be very bad," he said.

~ andrew_marra@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PAYING TAXES?

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE


Americans angry about the current immigration morass utter a common complaint:
"Illegal aliens don't pay taxes."

But many undocumented workers have taxes taken out of their checks and an
increasing number are filing tax returns, according to IRS statistics, local
undocumented workers and immigrant advocates.

President Obama's promise of an immigration overhaul is a major reason for the
increase in returns. That change could open a path to legal status for about 12
million people currently illegal.

"Those folks have been told, if immigration reform comes, in order to become
legal they will have to do two main things," says Jim Kean, a social worker at
the Catholic Church's Guadalupe Social Services in Immokalee, which helps
undocumented people complete tax returns. "They have to learn English, and they
will have to prove they don't owe back taxes. So they are trying to get straight
with the IRS."

To do that, more workers are requesting an Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number (ITIN), which people not eligible for Social Security numbers can use to
report earnings.

According to the IRS, the number of taxpayer-identification numbers assigned
annually in the U.S. has risen from 615,414 in 1999 to 1,837,583 in 2009. More
than 7.8 million have been distributed in the past five years.

Last year, 2,030,699 tax returns were filed using tax-identification numbers --
by both immigrants here legally and undocumented workers.

More undocumented workers filing returns, social workers say

In South Florida, most undocumented Latino workers do not use tax identification
numbers, but the number is increasing.

Maria Vega is another Catholic Church social worker in Immokalee who helped
workers file returns this year.

"Around here some of the undocumented workers who do day labor are paid in cash
and ladies who clean houses," says Vega. "But they are a minority. Most of the
others are paid by check. I'd say out of every 20 people who came for help with
their taxes, 12 or 13 asked for help applying for the ITIN."

In Pahokee, Catholic Church workers are also seeing an increase in illegal
immigrants filing tax returns. A volunteer at the church, himself undocumented,
said the number of people filing returns with tax-ID numbers has risen.

"You are supposed to file taxes whether you are here legally or not," says
Bernardo -- not his real name. "So some people are doing their taxes with the
hope it will be a path to become legal."

Vivian Pazmino, manager of the Vita program for the Palm Beach County United
Way, which also offers free tax preparation, says she is seeing the same
phenomenon, although the number is still relatively small.

"Some people say, 'I want to pay my taxes in case something is approved,'" she
says.

Farmworker advocates: Workers pay $7 billioninto Social Security

The number of illegal immigrants being paid by check changed after 1986, when
the Reagan administration passed an amnesty, allowing more than 2 million
immigrants to become legal. But that measure also made it a federal crime for an
employer to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant.

After that, many employers began requesting Alien Registration Cards, known as
"green cards," and Social Security numbers from workers.

That gave birth to an underground industry in counterfeit documents.

Employers are not obligated to check whether the Social Security numbers are
legitimate, even though a free, quick, online system exists to do so. Sponsored
by the government, it is called "E-verify."

"They don't check to see if the number is real because they want that cheap
labor," says Attorney Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project of
Lake Worth. "But they do deduct Social Security and Medicare taxes just as if
the card were real."

Schell provides files full of check stubs of undocumented workers he has
represented. In almost all instances, Social Security and Medicare taxes have
been deducted.

Advocates of a new amnesty estimate that those workers pay $7 billion per year
into Social Security, which they will never be able to claim unless the laws are
changed.

"In other words, the undocumented are shoring up Social Security for all the
rest of us," says Schell. He says they also pay sales taxes.

Schell's farmworker clients rarely pay withholding tax. But they make just
$8,000 to $10,000 a year, he says, and probably wouldn't owe anything to IRS
anyway.

Other undocumented workers in restaurant, construction and roofing jobs make
more. Some do pay withholding and can use tax-identification numbers to get
refunds.

Opponents of amnestyfor undocumented workers: 'They are working in underground
economy'

"The IRS doesn't care if you're legal," says Bob Dane, Washington spokesman for
the Federation of Americans for Immigration Reform (FAIR), an opponent of
amnesty. "They just want your money."

Dane and other opponents of amnesty say they believe the majority of
undocumented workers are still paid in cash.

"Most don't pay taxes," he says. "They are working in the underground economy."

Employers who pay cash are not hard to find. One Miami landscaper, who asked
that his name not be used, says he believes smaller employers, less likely to
draw the attention of immigration agents, more often pay cash under the table.

"I have only three employees and I pay cash," he says. "Or the people who run
small restaurants. They do it. A lot of the employees ask that you pay them in
cash so that you won't have to take out Social Security and Medicare."

And many Florida construction companies declare their workers independent
contractors and deduct no taxes from their checks.

But since no one knows exactly how many people are undocumented and how they are
paid, neither Dane's side nor the other side can produce hard figures to prove
their case.

Do illegal immigrants cost society more than they add? Numbers hard to find

It is the same with the question of whether the undocumented cost U.S. taxpayers
more than they add to the economy.

FAIR says the cost of educating the children of illegal immigrants, treating the
medical needs of illegal immigrants in hospital emergency rooms and
incarcerating those who violate the law adds up to many billions every year,
more than undocumented workers contribute. The group says illegal workers also
depress wages for blue-collar Americans.

Advocates say just the opposite is true, that the undocumented do more to help
the U.S. economy than drain it. Low food costs in the U.S. are one benefit
attributed to undocumented labor.

The advocates emphasize that many undocumented workers also pay taxes.

"But you tell people that and they never believe it," says Wendy Seslau of the
pro-amnesty American Immigration Council. "So we just say if the reform passes,
then they can all pay taxes. Wouldn't that be good?"

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Paying share when you're not a U.S. citizen If undocumented workers
don't have Social Security numbers, how can they pay taxes? They can request an
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. In the last five years, more than 7.8
million numbers have been issued. Don't most undocumented workers get paid in
cash? Many do, but many others are paid by check and have Social Security
withheld. What one undocumented immigrant says: 'You are supposed to file taxes
whether you are here legally or not. So some people are doing their taxes with
the hope it will be a path to become legal.'Z New law in Arizona has some
calling on Obama. 3A

GRAPHIC:  SETH PERLMAN/The Associated Press Paying their fair share:Last year,
2,030,699 tax returns were filed using tax-identification numbers -- by both
immigrants here legally as well as undocumented workers. .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Captain, 5 immigrants sentenced in smuggling

BYLINE: By JULIUS WHIGHAM II Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 220 words


A Bahamian man and five immigrants have been sentenced in connection to a
immigrant smuggling venture from the Bahamas to West Palm Beach, the U.S.
attorney's office announced Monday.

The defendants were sentenced last month after being arrested and charged in
April. On Oct. 1, Kelsey James McQueen, 24, of the Bahamas was sentenced to
seven years in prison after pleading guilty to alien smuggling and attempting
reentry after deportation, the attorney's office said in a news release.

Juan Carlos Paredes-Rodriguez, 44, of the Dominican Republic, Oneil Black, 32,
Andrew Fitzgerald Saint Aubyn Brissett 45, Sheldon Lewis, 35, and Carolyn Denise
Waddles, 36, all of Jamaica, all pleaded guilty to attempting to illegally
reenter the United States after deportation.

On Oct. 1, Paredes-Rodriguez was sentenced to three years, Black was sentenced
to 18 months and Brissett was sentenced to three years.

On Oct. 8, Lewis was sentenced to eight months in prison, and Waddles was
sentenced to two years in prison on Friday.

According to the release, on April 28, U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents
pursued and intercepted the 41-foot sportfishing vessel Mary Carla, which had
departed Grand Bahama en route to the West Palm Beach area.

McQueen was the boat's captain, and 14 immigrants were on board.

~ julius_whigham@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona law attacked as U.S., ACLU argue cases ;
 They ask a federal judge to block the legislation from taking effect this
comingThursday.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 872 words


A federal judge in Phoenix on Thursday heard two arguments against Arizona's
controversial new immigration law, a measure that could serve as a model for
similar legislation in other states, including Florida.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton heard challenges from the Obama
administration's Justice Department and from a group of opponents led by the
Arizona chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.

They both asked her to issue an injunction to keep the law from taking effect
this coming Thursday and they want the courts to eventually throw out at least
parts of it altogether. Bolton did not make a ruling but is expected to do so by
Thursday.

The most controversial aspects of the Arizona law make it a state crime to be in
the country illegally.

The measure asserts that a state or local law enforcement officer engaged in a
lawful stop of an individual can inquire about that person's legal status when
reasonable suspicion exists that the person is not legally in the U.S. If the
person cannot prove his or her legal status, the officer can detain that person.

Both the ACLU and the Justice Department argued that the legislation, signed
into law in April by Gov. Jan Brewer, violates the U.S. Constitution because it
claims for a state the right to enforce immigration laws, which is the exclusive
province of the federal government.

The group of plaintiffs led by the ACLU also said the new law would lead to
racial profiling and inevitably violate the constitutional rights of some
American citizens, especially Latinos, by subjecting them to unlawful
interrogations, searches, seizures and arrests.

Attorneys for Brewer answered that Washington's inadequate immigration
enforcement has left the state with heavy costs for educating, incarcerating and
providing health care for illegal immigrants.

Attorney John Bouma, who represents Brewer, also challenged the contention that
the law would lead to racial profiling.

"In Arizona we have a tremendous Hispanic heritage. To think that everybody
that's Hispanic is going to be stopped and questioned ... defies reality," Bouma
said. "All this is hypothetical, that we're going to go out and arrest everybody
that's Hispanic. Look around. That's impossible."

In Florida, supporters and opponents of the law were tracking the events in
Arizona.

State Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart has written a draft of a bill much like the
Arizona legislation, which he plans to introduce during the next regular
legislative session in March.

"The challenges are being heard in federal district court there," Snyder said.
"Whatever happens there will be instructive for us here in Florida, but not
binding."

Snyder said Bolton's ruling could guide Florida legislators in how to word a
bill that would pass muster with the courts. He said that he would continue his
efforts regardless of the Arizona ruling, even if Bolton issues an injunction
against the Arizona law on constitutional grounds.

State Rep. Kevin Ambler, R-Tampa, has penned a similar bill, which he prepared
in time to present to the special legislative session Tuesday. But that session,
called by Gov. Charlie Crist, was adjourned amid political squabbling between
Crist and the GOP majority without any legislation being addressed.

House and Senate leaders are planning another special session for September,
primarily to address the gulf oil spill. Ambler could not be reached Thursday
and it isn't clear what his plans are.

But if he does try to introduce it in September, the Florida ACLU said it will
respond.

Executive Director Howard Simon said Thursday that his organization was ready to
argue against Ambler's bill on Tuesday.

"The courts have pretty regularly ruled that enforcement of immigration laws is
a federal responsibility, and not one for the state or local communities," Simon
said.

He said the Florida ACLU would use essentially the same arguments used against
the Arizona bill Thursday in federal court in Phoenix.

Simon said he believed that many Americans were feeling frustration with the
immigration issue because of the nation's porous borders and that they also
feared changing ethnic demographics.

But he said instead of trying to shift responsibility for enforcement of
immigration laws to the states, voters should pressure their members of Congress
for reform of immigration laws, which could lead to legal status for illegal
immigrants in the country, but also more secure borders.

"This frustration exists only because Congress has not stepped up to the plate,"
he said. "Having police in Central Florida stopping everybody who looks Central
American or South American isn't going to solve anything."

He accused some Florida politicians of exploiting the fears and frustrations of
voters in an election year by proposing the state immigration legislation.

Tim McClellan, a spokesman for the South Florida Tea Party, took the opposing
view.

"We are totally with Arizona," he said. "The federal government has totally
dropped the ball on the immigration issue and for some reason has refused to
pick it up again."

He said his organization was solidly behind a Florida law similar to the Arizona
measure.

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks and The Associated Press contributed to this
story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 12, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SHOULD CITIZENSHIP BE HER BIRTHRIGHT?

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 981 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE


Alfonso, a Mexican-born undocumented worker here, has never studied, browsed or
even seen a copy of the U.S. Constitution. But that document contains the 14th
Amendment, which will almost certainly have an enormous effect on him, his
undocumented, Mexican-born wife and their three U.S.-born children.

"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein
they reside," says the 1868 amendment.

In other words, neither Alfonso nor his wife, Angelica, is a citizen, but their
children are. Strapping Samantha, 9; Concepcion, 8, who favors Miami Hurricanes
jerseys; and gap-toothed Esly, 3, all have U.S. passports.

This fact outrages some opponents of the nation's immigration laws and policies.

President Obama has proposed passing an immigration overhaul in his first term.
The overhaul could lead to legal residence and citizenship for millions of
undocumented people in the U.S.

The debate is expected to heat up this week as Congress returns from recess.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., over the weekend promised quick
action.

"We need to do this this year," he told a crowd in Las Vegas. "We cannot wait."

The citizenship question is part of the controversy.

The 14th Amendment was adopted soon after the Civil War and countermanded
previous law, which had denied slaves of African descent or their offspring U.S.
citizenship.

Some immigration activists claim attempts to alter the law are also racially
motivated. But proponents of changing the law say it has to do with the rule of
law and not rewarding people who enter the country illegally.

"As far as I know, no other Western country gives citizenship to children of
illegal aliens," said Dave Caulkett of Floridians for Immigration Enforcement,
who favors changing the law.

John Parsons of Jupiter, a former candidate for the town council and an opponent
of current immigration policies, agrees.

"We are being taken advantage of, and we have been for a long time," he said.
"Women are coming here specifically to have babies so that those children can be
American citizens. I don't care if the parents come from England, Russia, Mexico
or wherever. If the parents aren't here legally, those children should not be
U.S. citizens."

Opponents of "birthright citizenship" say polls have shown most Americans agree
with them.

But people on the other side disagree, saying it may help serve others' welfare.
They say as long as workers in fields such as construction, agriculture,
landscaping and restaurants are needed, U.S. employers will hire undocumented
workers. Those workers have become integral to the economy, and in the normal
course of their lives, they have children here, immigrant advocates say.

"These kids have never stepped foot in their parents' home countries," said
attorney Tania Galloni of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami. "They
are Americans. If you deny these children citizenship here, you will have a
large group of stateless people. Is that a smart thing to do? Wouldn't you want
the people living within your borders to have allegiance to your country?

"And saying that people come here just to have children doesn't make sense,"
Galloni said. "It doesn't give the parents any advantage. They can still be
deported."

Sometimes those parents are deported and choose to leave their U.S.-born
children behind to be cared for by relatives or friends.

Activists who want to end birthright citizenship accuse those undocumented
adults of creating "anchor babies." Once the child is born an American citizen,
he can later petition for the legalization of other family members.

"And that way we get closer and closer to being a Third World country because
our law enforcement agencies just won't enforce our laws," Parsons said.

West Palm Beach immigration attorney Aileen Josephs said she believes the Latin
ethnicity of many of the undocumented is what worries many opponents of
birthright citizenship.

"There are people who fear the demographic change in our nation," she said.
"Instead of embracing Latinos, they have attacked them."

Many defenders of birthright citizenship say it would take a change in the
Constitution to alter the practice, and that is unlikely to occur.

But those who oppose the status quo say it could be done through legislation,
simply clarifying the amendment's language.

In 2003, then-Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, tried to change the law to
deny citizenship to a child if both parents were undocumented. Rep. Nathan Deal,
R-Ga., has more recently introduced such legislation.

The undocumented who work the Immokalee fields find themselves in the middle of
a legal battle they know little about. They admit there are great advantages to
raising children in the U.S., compared with their home countries. Schools are
better in the U.S., they say, and government health programs, including
Medicaid, are good for their children.

But they deny that they came to the U.S. with the idea of having kids.

"I have heard that some people come here just to have babies," said Alfonso, the
field worker from Mexico now living in Immokalee. "But those are usually people
with money and they fly to a hospital in Houston or wherever. There are people
who can plan that sort of thing.

"But they aren't people like us, the majority who come from poverty, who come
right from the ranch back home, cross the desert and who come just looking to
work," he said.

"We don't have the opportunity to plan. The women get pregnant, but it isn't
because someone had a plan to make a United States citizen. I didn't even know
the law about that when I came here."

Araceli, 30, originally from Oaxaca, Mexico, and mother of two U.S.-born
daughters, agrees.

"I came here eight years ago and I came to improve my life," she said. "I didn't
plan to have children here. It was God's will."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  'All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to
the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state
wherein they reside.' -- 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution IMMIGRATION
DEBATE Take our poll Should the U.S.-born children of undocumented immigrants
receive automatic citizenship? PalmBeachPost.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION KUMBAYA ;
 Bipartisan opening, believe it or not.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 641 words


Before Americans give up on bipartisanship, they should take a look at the
history of immigration reform during the past decade.

At one time or another, Ted Kennedy, John McCain, Mel Martinez, Harry Reid, Bill
Frist, Chuck Hagel, Chuck Schumer, Lindsey Graham, Bob Graham and George W. Bush
have proposed legislation with the same ideas for fixing the broken system.

The U.S. Senate actually has a commendable record of working across party lines
on immigration. In 2006, the Senate voted 62-36 to approve a comprehensive
reform bill that contained measures from both sides. Had it not died an
acrimonious death in the House, the country would have a plan in place today.

Contrary to popular perceptions, there is wide consensus in Washington on the
components of reform. Nearly everyone supports tightening U.S. borders and using
technology to identify and keep track of immigrants. Most lawmakers have come to
accept a guest-worker program that would allow foreign workers to fill jobs here
legally. Most favor tightening requirements on businesses that use immigrant
labor. And majorities in both houses are even believed to support some sort of
pathway to legal status -- which would include fines, English requirements and
background checks -- for people here illegally.

The pathway has been the most contentious provision of previous reform bills but
opposition has grudgingly withered, in part because of the declining numbers of
illegal immigrants in the country. As the recession has depressed the job
market, immigrant workers have returned to their homelands, and the illegal
population has fallen from more than 12 million to an estimated 10.8 million.

Five years ago, it was easy to find politicians willing to argue that it was
feasible to deport 12 million people. You can't find them anymore.

Sens. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., are collaborating on
the current iteration of comprehensive reform. Their legislation has all the
familiar features of past compromise efforts, and maybe one thing in its favor:
strangely enough, it is timing.

Despite the nasty fight over health care, and despite the statement by Sen. John
McCain, R-Ariz., that the parties will achieve no compromises the rest of the
year, the Schumer-Graham initiative may benefit from some unlikely tailwinds.

One is a feeling within GOP ranks that, after painting itself into a political
corner with united, failed opposition to health care reform, it needs to
demonstrate bipartisanship before the November elections.

Another is the economic impact of immigration reform. Some estimates show the
improved productivity of a legalized workforce could inject $1 trillion into the
economy over 10 years -- important in a recession. Most large business groups
still support comprehensive reform, and Republicans are always inclined to
deliver for business.

Ironic plot twists seem always inclined to scuttle attempts at immigration
reform, and this time may be no different. It could be that getting votes from
Democrats emerges as the greatest obstacle to passing a bill this year.

Many Democrats in swing districts and battleground states are fighting for their
political lives after voting for health care reform, and party leadership does
not want to give them another difficult vote before November. On the day the
health care bill passed, however, President Obama promised immigrant advocates
he would advance reform and gave the Schumer-Graham proposal his blessing.

The president said he "would do everything in my power to forge a bipartisan
consensus this year." He didn't say there would be a vote on a bill this year or
that the consensus would come before November.

But compared with health care, immigration reform suddenly seems downright
attainable.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 8, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SPA OWNER GUILTY OF EXPLOITING 2 UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 137 words


A woman pleaded guilty last week to harboring and exploiting two undocumented
immigrants at a spa in West Palm Beach, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office.

Hannah Chong was charged with harboring illegal immigrants for commercial
advantage and money laundering, according to a U.S. Attorney's Office report.
Chong was arrested last September after federal agents searched her Coral Spa on
Okeechobee Boulevard in West Palm Beach.

Prosecutors accused Chong of sexually exploiting two women who were undocumented
immigrants by allowing them to engage in prostitution at the spa.

Chong also took part of the money the women earned at the spa and from their
prostitution activities, according to the report. It was unclear when Chong
would be sentenced or how much time in federal prison she might face.

~jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SURVIVORS QUESTIONED ABOUT DEADLY VOYAGE;
IS ONE OF THEM TO BLAME?

BYLINE: By BILL DiPAOLO and ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


After two days at sea, 11 weary survivors of a sunken boat that left more than
25 Haitian and Bahamian immigrants in the ocean off the Boynton Beach Inlet
stepped onto U.S. soil Friday.

They came not as they had hoped, as illegal immigrants looking for a better life
in South Florida, but rather as federal detainees.

They join five other survivors who already were in South Florida being treated
at hospitals.

Many were tired and traumatized, rocking back and forth and so weak they had to
be helped onto shore, a Coast Guard official said.

But all of the 11 -- 10 men and one woman -- were able to walk alone, stepping
onto the wooden pier at the Coast Guard's Riviera Beach station in Coast
Guard-issued sandals and the ragged clothes they were rescued in.

Coast Guard officials often return captured immigrants to their home countries
without bringing them to land, experts say.

But federal authorities believe that one or more of those who stepped off the
Coast Guard cutter may have been a ringleader in an immigrant smuggling
operation that went awry off the Florida coast Wednesday morning.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is investigating the deaths and the
suspected smuggling operation.

"There is a very strong possibility one of them may be involved," said Louis
Diaz, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Officials on Friday identified the 16 survivors, all said to be Haitian and
Bahamian nationals.

Coast Guard Lt. Matt Moorlag said they have provided little information about
the boat that left from the Bahamian island of Bimini but said that "this fits
the profile of a smuggling operation. There was a powerboat involved."

The survivors were transferred into the custody of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection.

After questioning, they will be offered voluntary deportation or can choose to
appear before an immigration judge.

Since being pulled from the water Wednesday, the 11 survivors had been held
miles offshore on Coast Guard cutters, where federal officials interviewed them.

The decision to leave them on the high seas had been questioned by critics who
said they had been kept there to avoid immigration hearings and asylum
petitions.

"Once they make it to dry land, they have legally enforceable rights in the
U.S.," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center.

"At least if they're here, they get to talk to lawyers and get advised of their
legal rights."

Little said the Miami-based advocacy group had sent a letter to federal
officials asking that the survivors be brought to shore.

"They're traumatized," she said. "They're terrified. The best way to interview
them is to bring them onshore."

At least nine people died after the boat sank early Wednesday. Anywhere from
three to 10 others are unaccounted for and feared dead.

After more than 30 hours, the Coast Guard ended an extensive search and rescue
mission Thursday night.

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

~ andrew_marra@pbpost.com

The 16 survivors of Wednesday's capsizing off Palm Beach County

Metelus Jimmy

Johny Leon

Rohan Whyte

Calix Lumiere Jean Robert

Gibson Lubin

Jean Monique

Chondeliene Leonard

Lucsene Agustin

Difficile Jocelyn

Frantzy Jean

Lareos Honore

Yvrance Charles Jean

Wisler Santil

Antoine Chrisla

Lexilia Lexidort

Keslet St. Louis

Source: U.S. Coast Guard

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer Officials lead two men, who
survived after their boat capsized Wednesday, into the Coast Guard's Riviera
Beach station. The men were among 11 people brought to shore Friday after being
held on Coast Guard cutters. 'They're terrified,' says Miami-based advocate
Cheryl Little, who pushed for the move. 'The best way to interview them is to
bring them onshore.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 21, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE ILLEGAL VS. THE HOSPITAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 553 words


Nine years ago, a drunken driver sent an illegal immigrant to Martin Memorial
Medical Center, where he ran up more than $1 million in bills.

Today, Luis Jimenez, a former landscape worker who was left with the IQ of a
10-year-old, lives with his mother in a Guatemalan village. Meanwhile, doctors
and lawyers in Florida are preparing for a three-week trial -- set to begin
Tuesday in Stuart -- that will highlight holes in and raise questions about U.S.
immigration and health-care policies.

Mr. Jimenez' legal guardian, Montejo Gaspar Montejo of Indiantown, alleges that
Martin Memorial administrators falsely imprisoned Mr. Jimenez when they put him
on a plane -- against Mr. Montejo's wishes -- and returned him to Guatemala
because they no longer wanted to pay for his care. The hospital, which had a
court order allowing the transfer, denies the allegation, saying that treatment
close to family was better for Mr. Jimenez.

Mr. Jimenez spent three years at Martin Memorial, far longer than he needed to,
but the hospital had nowhere to send him. As an undocumented immigrant who had
no insurance and was ineligible for Medicaid, he couldn't pay a rehabilitation
facility. Martin Memorial, like all providers that receive Medicare and Medicaid
payments, can, under federal guidelines, discharge patients only to a facility
that will provide the next level of appropriate care.

So the hospital asked a circuit court judge for permission to move Mr. Jimenez
to a hospital in Guatemala. In June 2003, the judge agreed. In May 2004, the 4th
District Court of Appeal overturned that decision, ruling that the judge had no
authority to order what amounted to a deportation. But Martin Memorial had sent
Mr. Jimenez out of the country. Just as Mr. Montejo had predicted, that hospital
kicked him out when he couldn't pay. As did the next hospital.

Mark Krikorian, executive director for the Center for Immigration Studies, said
the hospital was right. "We don't have an uninsured crisis. We have an
immigration crisis," said Mr. Krikorian, noting that one-third of the 47 million
uninsured in the U.S. are immigrants. "The long-term goal has to be reducing
immigration of people who are going to end up in a hospital unable to pay. We
need less legal immigration and better enforcement against illegal immigration."

However, a 2005 study published in the American Journal of Public Health found
that while immigrants comprised 10 percent of the U.S. population, they
accounted for only 8 percent of U.S. health-care costs. According to the study,
the primary reason immigrants use the health-care system less is lack of
insurance.

Susana Barciela, policy director for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said
the current system forces hospitals to absorb the costs of treating illegal
immigrants and make decisions outside their purview. "What we need is an
immigration system that works for this country, not against it," she said.
"You've got to have immigration reform to legalize the people who are here, so
you don't have this problem."

This case will highlight two of this country's biggest unresolved problems.
Whatever the result in court, the solutions to those problems must come from
Washington.

TALK BACK!http://blogs.palmbeachpost.com/opinionzone

What do you think about this case and health care for illegal immigrants?

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Jimenez

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOSPITAL CARE FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PUT TO TEST

BYLINE: By DAPHNE DURET Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: STUART


On his ride back to Indiantown from a landscaping job one afternoon nearly a
decade ago, Luis Alberto Jimenez's destiny collided with the front end of a
stolen van.

The impact killed two passengers in the car he was in and landed the van's
drunken driver, Donald Flewellen, in prison for nearly 10 years on a DUI
manslaughter charge.

The crash also left Jimenez, an illegal Guatemalan immigrant, with debilitating
injuries and the cognitive ability of a fourth-grader.

Flewellen is on probation. Jimenez has become the center of a legal battle
between the hospital that flew him back to Guatemala after spending more than $1
million on his care and Jimenez's family members who say the hospital falsely
imprisoned him and deported him so it would no longer have to pay to treat him.

Jimenez's case, the focus of a civil trial expected to begin Tuesday in Martin
County, is at the forefront of national debates on health care and immigration.

"If there's ever a case that highlights the need for reform concerning both
issues, this is it," said Miami immigration attorney Greg Wald.

Wald, who splits his time between South Florida and San Francisco, said the
practice of hospitals privately deporting undocumented immigrants has happened
across the country.

But Jimenez's case is among the first, if not the first, in which such a
deportation has been challenged.

After the February 2000 crash, rescue workers took Jimenez to Martin Memorial
Medical Center with severe head injuries and broken bones. Because he was in the
U.S. illegally, he was ineligible for Medicaid aside from a nominal amount
allotted for emergency cases.

The hospital treated Jimenez at its own expense. In June 2000 he was transferred
to a nursing home. By January 2001 he was back at the hospital's emergency room
with severe bed sores.

The hospital again rehabilitated him, but according to court records, no nursing
home would take him.

Because Jimenez's injuries left him incapacitated, Martin Circuit Judge John
Fennelly allowed Montejo Gaspar Montejo, Jimenez's cousin by marriage, to serve
as his guardian. A legal battle surfaced after Martin Memorial sought a court
order to have Jimenez sent back to Guatemala.

Hospital officials presented the judge with a letter from a high-ranking
Guatemalan health official to bolster their argument that Jimenez would receive
proper care in his home country.

Against objections from Montejo and his attorney, the judge sided with Martin
Memorial. Montejo filed an appeal, but less than a day later hospital officials
took Jimenez to Guatemala on a chartered jet.

A nurse from the hospital went along to make sure he was settled in the new
hospital. But three weeks later he was kicked out of that hospital and then
another.

Jimenez, now 35, lives in a small village in Guatemala, where his elderly mother
is his nurse. He has no medication.

Family members say his condition is deteriorating.

An appeals court in 2004 overturned Judge Fennelly's decision, saying he had no
jurisdiction to authorize the return.

Montejo then sued the hospital. The suit was initially dismissed, but the case
was reopened two years later after another appellate ruling cleared the way.

Martin Memorial officials declined last week to comment on the specifics of the
case. They said their situation reflects those of hospitals across the country.

"Unfortunately, the cost of providing that care is rising and the burden of
paying the health care bill for many undocumented immigrants is falling on
hospitals and health systems that simply cannot afford to pay it," hospital
communications director Ronda Wilburn said in an e-mail.

If jurors rule in favor of Montejo and order the hospital to pay for Jimenez's
care, then Wald said hospitals will think twice about sending other patients
back to their home countries.

"The hospitals are in an untenable position," Wald said. "At the same time, I
have a problem with any private entity deporting someone. That's a decision for
the government or the federal court."

~daphne_duret@pbpost.com

Patient repatriation across the country

* From January 2007 to August 2008, 13 patients were repatriated to Mexico from
Chicago-area hospitals.

* In 2008, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Chicago sent an average
of seven uninsured immigrants a month back to their native countries for
treatment.

* Some places, such as New York City and the state of California, allot millions
of dollars for long-term care of illegal immigrants, but most states do not.

* American immigration officials do not participate in the private
repatriations.

Sources: La Raza, Arizona Republic, The New York Times

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text. Share your thoughts Was the deportation
justified? Sound off on the Opinion Zone. PalmBeachPost.com/opinionzone

GRAPHIC:  Jimenez Deported Guatemalan at center of Martin case.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, LONG-TERM CARE ARE INCOMPATIBLE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 190 words


American citizens, naturalized or not, should all be very concerned for our
hospitals, as shown in the case now in court involving Martin Memorial Medical
Center ("Lawyer: Hospital unable to give care," July 9).

If we continue to take care of illegal aliens who have long-term, expensive
health care problems, our hospitals will close down. No country, even America,
can take care of as many people as we are expected to care for and not go broke.
If we sent illegal immigrants back to their own countries, we could probably
improve care for our citizens, many of whom are in need of good medical care. We
might be able to improve our schools, which are being compromised by the
overwhelming problems associated with the illegal alien population.

The Palm Beach Post should look at the results of current polls. American
citizens, even those who came as immigrants the right way, are disgusted with
this country's mealy-mouthed response to the problem of illegal immigration.
Unfortunately, the negative impact includes racist feelings, as citizens are
denied services that illegals get without having responsibility to pay.

KIM BLACKBURN

Lantana

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLOSE THE 'WEIRD LOOPHOLE';
TWO CASES: ONE FUZZY, ONE CLEARER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 474 words


Officially, Martin Memorial Medical Center was the defendant in the lawsuit
alleging that Luis Jimenez was wrongly flown out of the country in July 2003.
Those actually responsible for Mr. Jimenez's plight, however, were Donald
Flewellen and the federal government.

Flewellen has been dealt with. He went to prison after a DUI manslaughter
conviction for the February 2000 crash that killed two people and badly injured
two others, including Mr. Jimenez, who was hospitalized with brain damage. But
the $30,000 in available insurance didn't come close to compensating the victims
and paying for their care.

The federal government, on the other hand, has let itself off the hook. Mr.
Jimenez was an illegal immigrant. The federal government has not enacted
immigration reform and does not adequately control U.S. borders. The feds also
have not enacted health care reform in general and specifically have not
protected hospitals from unfairly bearing the cost of treating illegal
immigrants.

Consider the trap Martin Memorial was in. The government required the hospital
to care for Mr. Jimenez. But because he was in the country illegally, the
government would not compensate the hospital. Boca Raton lawyer Scott Michaud,
who represented Martin Memorial, calls the situation a "weird loophole" that
kept Mr. Jimenez in a facility that provided a higher and more expensive level
of care than he needed.

No wonder a Martin County jury on Monday found that the hospital, which absorbed
$1 million in expenses, acted reasonably when it sent Mr. Jimenez back to
Guatemala for care, which the country -- adding to the list of those really
responsible -- later failed to provide. When Martin Memorial sent Mr. Jimenez
away, after he had asked to go home, the hospital had a ruling from a state
judge declaring the transfer proper. Mr. Michaud said in an interview that "we
had an order we relied on that after the fact was ruled not valid" when the 4th
District Court of Appeal ruled in May 2004 that only a federal court could have
had jurisdiction over what amounted to deportation.

The hospital was wrong to send Jimenez out of the country while his advocates
still were appealing the court order. But the whole point of the appellate
court's ruling -- that the federal government must be in charge of immigration
-- underscores the federal failures that hurt Martin Memorial, other hospitals,
school districts and the entire state.

This issue isn't new. In 1994, then-Gov. Lawton Chiles sued the federal
government for $1.5 billion to cover Florida's cost of illegal immigrants. He
lost, with a judge ruling that such reimbursement is a political, not a legal,
issue. Federal politicians still haven't settled these issues. They should have
been in the defendant's chair instead of Martin Memorial.

Hospitals, school districts and the state need an answer.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  TALK BACK!http://blogs.palmbeachpost.com/opinionzone Should the federal
government pay hospitals to treat illegal immigrants?

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 30, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 461 words


Claim legal residency -- in Mexico

The Local section front story on Saturday ("Undocumented immigrant, role model
faces deportation") about the 27-year-old illegal alien who may be deported may
evoke the usual response about legality. But there is another angle seldom
considered.

Millions of people live all over Mexico. Thousands graduate from Mexican
universities each year. There are Mexican doctors, engineers, educators,
researchers and the like by the tens of thousands. Mexico is not a Third World
nation. Neither is it a totalitarian nation. It does not torture its citizens.

Mauricia Avellaneda and her husband should consider doing the right thing by
their children. They should return to "their" country and join the millions of
successful Mexicans who get up every morning with a clean conscience, go to work
and do the right things in their lives. Their children can all be very good
ladies and gentlemen in Mexico like so many millions of their countrymen. They
are free to accomplish their life goals there, minus the stigma attached to
being illegal. It will not be easy but it will be honorable, an element of
character Mr. and Mrs. Avellaneda need to learn and pass along to their
children.

MARK BENSON

Jupiter

Post a fan of illegal immigration?

I am sick and tired of The Post's steady barrage of sob stories about illegal
aliens (whom The Post chooses to call "undocumented immigrants") about to be
deported.

The latest appeared on Saturday ("Undocumented immigrant, role model faces
deportation") about a 27-year-old Mexican boy who came to this country when he
was 10 and has become "a very good young man, no problems with the law or anyone
else." (I guess living in a country illegally doesn't constitute a "problem with
the law.") His mother bemoans the fact that he doesn't know his family in Mexico
and wouldn't know how to find them if he were deported. Conveniently buried deep
in the story is the fact that his parents and two siblings are also here
illegally.

My suggestion would be to send the entire family back to Mexico. If they want to
return to the United States, they should do so legally. Why does The Post not
understand the concept of legal immigration?

CHERYL MULLINGS

Boca Raton

Get in line behind the law-abiding

Regarding the article on the arrest of the role model "undocumented immigrant,"
Fredy's mother is praying that her son be allowed to stay in the U.S. Since when
can we pray to have a crime overlooked? Fredy and his parents are here
illegally. I believe the proper course is to repent, admit the sin and obey the
laws of the land. Get in line behind the immigrants who obey our laws and become
citizens legally.

SARAH KEITH

Lake Park

TALK BACK!http://blogs.palmbeachpost.com/opinionzone

Should Florida ban texting while driving?

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Deport or not deport?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 18, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SLOPPINESS HELPS NAB EXAMINERS AT DMV;
10 EXAMINERS BEING CHARGED IN MILLION-DOLLAR SCHEME TO SELL DRIVER;
LICENSES TO AT LEAST 1,500 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ELIOT KLEINBERG Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


In the end it was the suspects' sloppiness and vanity that was their undoing,
prosecutors say. They deliberately ignored obvious mistakes on documents, and
they bought expensive cars and designer clothes that they couldn't afford on
their salaries.

Those actions, investigators say, tripped up the state examiners charged with
taking perhaps millions of dollars in bribes to issue driver licenses to at
least 1,500 illegal immigrants.

Ten people -- four examiners at the license bureau in Delray Beach and six
others who recruited them -- have been or soon will be arrested, the Palm Beach
County State Attorney's Office said. The 10 include two examiners who were
charged when the ring was broken in May and who face new conspiracy counts.

Assistant State Attorney Alan Johnson, Palm Beach County's public corruption
prosecutor, said the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles is
working to invalidate the illicit licenses.

As many as seven examiners were in on the scheme, generating fees of $1,200 to
$2,500 per license, witnesses told investigators.

Reports don't give the total take, but the math suggests more than $1 million --
and as much as several million dollars.

Investigators flagged 6,600 transactions that involved immigration forms and
passports, reviewed three-fourths of those, and found 1,503 fake licenses had
been issued.

Johnson said investigators hope to study the remaining transactions in coming
weeks.

While it was tips that alerted investigators, the corrupt examiners all but
waved red flags, according to an affidavit produced by the Florida Highway
Patrol.

Examiners ignored mistakes in fake documents, the kind they'd been trained to
look for. The errors were so blatant, any examiner should easily have spotted
them. They included missing codes, dates of birth in incorrect formats, and
stamps that were smeared and illegible.

Also, while the examiners took home less than $20,000 a year, they "openly and
notoriously exhibited expensive personal items such as automobiles, home
purchases, designer clothing, jewelry and accessories of an apparent cost far in
excess of their means," the report said.

According to the affidavit, the conspirators would generate counterfeit
immigration documents and supply them to applicants, often handing paperwork to
them in the parking lot of the license office at Military Trail and Atlantic
Avenue.

Conspirators then directed applicants -- and in some cases personally walked
them in --to examiners who were participating in the scheme.

Few applicants took the mandatory written exam or the driving test before
walking away with valid driver licenses.

Examiners kept count of how many customers they handled and each would meet one
of the outside ringleaders after work, away from the bureau, to be paid, the
report said.

When investigators arrested one suspect, Alex Adrien, 42, of Delray Beach, in
April, a search of his car uncovered 20 counterfeit immigration forms, several
blank immigration forms, and nine fake passports, along with ledgers containing
dozens of names, with notations ranging from $480 to $1,200. Adrien later was
deported to Haiti.

Prosecutors say some of the predominantly Haitian, Guatemalan and Mexican
immigrants who sought licenses might have wanted them so they could stay in the
country, get a job, open a bank account and not live in fear that a simple
traffic stop would land them in jail with the next stop their home country.

"It was insane what was going on," Elizabeth Parker, a chief assistant state
attorney who headed a multi-agency task force investigating the matter, said
after the first arrests in May. "They were bringing van loads of people from all
over South Florida. It was so blatant."

Staff writer Sonja Isger contributed to this story.

~eliot_kleinberg@pbpost.com License to steal?

Investigators say outside ringleaders conspired with at least five examiners
from January 2008 until April to take bribes to provide driver licenses to
illegal immigrants. Examiners are charged with taking bribes, the rest with
conspiring to bribe public officials.

ARRESTED WEDNESDAYOR THURSDAY:

Examiners:

ZMaggie Nelson

47, Delray Beach

ZDebbie Hunter Collins

43, Delray Beach

ZChenita Byrd-Mosley

29, Boynton Beach

ZOsie Carter

49, Boynton Beach

'Facilitators'

ZJonex Moise

35, Boynton Beach

STILL AT LARGE:

Five additional facilitatorsArrested in Aprilor May

Examiners

* Nelson

* Collins

* Jashonda Kaliha Scott, 25, Palm Springs

* Patreese Harvey, 28, Palm Springs

* Melita Dera Zilea, 28, Coral Springs

'Facilitators'

* Alex Adrien, 42, Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Examiners in court See video of the examiners' first appearances in
court PalmBeachPost.com

GRAPHIC:  Nelson\Collins\Byrd-Mosley\Carter\Moise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DMV SCAM THE REAL THREAT

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 448 words


As scams go, the Delray Beach driver license fraud was about as sloppy and
unsophisticated as the ACORN employees caught on tape behaving badly. But,
unlike the ACORN mess, the actions of motor vehicle employees -- supplying
Florida licenses to illegal immigrants -- put the community at risk.

Seven examiners at the Delray Beach license office have been arrested for
allegedly taking more than $2 million in bribes to provide driver licenses to at
least 1,500 illegal immigrants who supplied fake immigration papers and usually
didn't take the driving test. Examiners deliberately ignored inconsistencies
between fake documents and official ones and, according to a report by the
Florida Highway Patrol, "openly and notoriously exhibited expensive personal
items such as automobiles, home purchases, designer clothing, jewelry and
accessories of an apparent cost far in excess of their means." Also arrested
were six people -- two who owned driving schools -- for conspiring with the
examiners and recruiting the immigrants. The ring was busted in May, with
additional arrests made last week.

"You have people who are not to have those documents being able to carry them
around and use them in our community," said State Attorney Michael McAuliffe.
"It fraudulently conveys legitimacy or legality of presence here so you have
much more freedom of movement and scope of activity."

Such movement and activity includes the ability to drive without fear of arrest
and deportation if stopped by a police officer -- important if you're
trafficking in drugs. It also means the ability to obtain a passport -- as one
illegal immigrant did -- that gives you the freedom to enter and leave the
country. That's important to a potential terrorist. Mohamed Atta, who practiced
flying in Palm Beach County, and other 9/11 hijackers used driver licenses to
avoid difficult questions and buy airplane tickets.

The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles initiated a task
force to crack down on license fraud. The state's 81 license offices issue 3.3
million driver licenses and identification cards a year, making it inevitable
some fraud will occur, said Dave Westberry, director of communications for the
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. "We have folks that make bad
decisions," he said, "and when they do, we identify them and take action against
them as soon as possible." He could not discuss whether any other offices were
being investigated.

What's important is that the department -- and any employees engaging in or
thinking of engaging in fraud -- has been put on alert that this type of scam
will not be tolerated. That's good for the safety of Florida's communities.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT HAS FELONY DROPPED

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 235 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Guatemalan man at the center of a federal lawsuit over the continued detention
of undocumented workers even though they are able to post bond has had the lone
felony charge against him dismissed.

Marcotulio Mendez, 28, was charged with resisting an officer with violence and
driving without a license in May in the Westgate neighborhood. Circuit Judge
Karen Miller dismissed the resisting arrest felony charge against him last week,
writing in her order, "The defendant shall be released from custody."

The driving without a license charge, a misdemeanor, remains. That charge is
punishable by up to 60 days in jail, said his attorney, Assistant Public
Defender Dan Cohen. Yet, Mendez has been in the county jail more than four
months.

"He should be a free man," Cohen said.

Shortly after his arrest, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement slapped a
"hold" on Mendez for unspecified immigration violations. Mendez, who entered the
United States illegally in 1998, has four U.S.-born children.

Immigrants' rights groups selected him as a test case and in September filed a
federal lawsuit against Sheriff Ric Bradshaw, claiming he is violating
immigrants' constitutional rights by keeping them jailed even though state
judges have granted them bail.

An attorney for the sheriff's office has said the groups need to challenge
instead the constitutionality of the federal regulations.

~ susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ALL IMMIGRANTS NOT TERRORISTS; SOME JUST WANT TO DRIVE

BYLINE: Letters to the Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 388 words


I have read with interest the coverage about Florida Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles employees giving driver licenses to illegal
immigrants. While the employees involved should be punished -- one got a
three-year sentence last week -- the Legislature put the elements in place to
facilitate this fraud by refusing to issue licenses to those not lawfully
present in the country.

Withholding driver licenses from illegal immigrants is misguided. Not only has a
driver license become the de facto identification standard, it is a necessary
element of life, especially in this community and state where public
transportation options are limited. Like citizens, most aliens are law-abiding
members of our community and want a license so they can legally drive -- nothing
more, nothing less.

In an earlier editorial, The Post escalated the fallacy that every illegal alien
is engaged in unlawful criminal activity by linking Mohamed Atta and the other
9/11 terrorists to their obtaining driver licenses. Most of the photos that The
Post and other media utilized to identify the terrorists came from driver
license records. Further, a driver license is but one form of identification
that can be used to board a plane. A passport always has been -- and continues
to be -- acceptable, and foreign nationals obtain those from their home country,
not the U.S. government.

The Legislature has decided that it is better to refuse a license to those
illegally in the country, thinking that they will leave if we make it difficult
for them to stay. Guess what. They are still here. Do you think they are not
driving? Ask our county court judges how many people appear in front of them
each week for driving without a valid license, citizenship notwithstanding. The
ludicrousness of this policy has driven many to drive without a license (and
often insurance) or take unusual steps to obtain a license.

Unfortunately, there always will be bad apples looking to make a quick buck by
taking advantage of those less fortunate. To lump all illegal aliens into the
category of terrorists because they want a driver license, especially when the
state attorney says there is no evidence of terrorism, is irresponsible
journalism.

JEFFREY A. DEVORE

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Jeffrey A. Devore is an immigration lawyer in Palm Beach Gardens.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 16, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CRIMINALS JUST BY BEING HERE

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 244 words


Last week's letter about illegal immigrants set me off.

The letter was about the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
employees giving driver licenses to illegal immigrants. While the writer agrees
that the employees should be punished, he blames the "Legislature for
facilitating this fraud, by refusing to issue licenses to those not lawfully
present in the country."

He adds that "withholding driver licenses from illegal immigrants is misguided."
He says, "Like citizens, most aliens are "law-abiding." Hello, they are here
illegally. He says that "it's a fallacy that every illegal alien is engaged in
unlawful criminal activity." They are breaking the law just by being here. Where
is it said that we get to pick and choose the laws we want to break or abide by?

I know two people who have had their plates stolen. The writer says that all you
have to do is ask a county judge how many people appear in front of them without
a valid license. When they are picked up, and found not to be here legally, why
are they not deported? No, we have to pay for lawyers, like the writer, to
represent them.

I understand that people breaking laws are his bread and butter, but don't try
to make our government look bad for doing its job. These people are here, having
babies, going to our schools and hospitals. I feel bad for their plight, but do
it right. Get a green card, come in legally, and then you can get a driver
license.

CAROL HOENICH

Loxahatchee

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REMOVE LICENSE TO SCAM

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Editorial

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 396 words


Two former state driver license examiners are going to prison for their role in
a $1 million-plus scam that equipped 1,753 illegal immigrants with fake driver
licenses and ID cards. Five other examiners should follow.

Ideally, a debate about immigration policy should come after that.

Seven examiners who worked at the Delray Beach office of the Florida Department
of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles were arrested for taking bribes from the
undocumented aliens who supplied fake immigration papers and usually didn't take
the driving test. These examiners put the community at risk. "You have people
who are not to have those documents being able to carry them around and use them
in our community," Palm Beach County State Attorney Michael McAuliffe has said.
"It fraudulently conveys legitimacy or legality of presence here so you have
much more freedom of movement and scope of activity."

Mohamed Atta, who practiced flying in Palm Beach County, and other 9/11
hijackers used driver licenses to avoid difficult questions and to buy airplane
tickets. The county has seen five elected officials go to prison for misusing
their office, but Assistant State Attorney Al Johnson, public corruption
prosecutor, said the public also should be able to trust its civil servants.
"Punishment for abusing or violating that trust," he said, "will be severe."
Sentenced so far are former examiners Jashonda Kaliha Scott, who will serve two
years followed by three years probation, and Melita Zilea, who will serve three
years followed by two years probation.

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles Communications Director David
Westberry believes that the scam took place only in the Delray Beach office. Six
other participants -- two of whom owned driving schools -- have been arrested
for conspiring with the examiners and recruiting the immigrants. The
investigation continues.

The larger issue is that domestic security would increase if illegal immigrants
didn't stay in the shadows. Police chiefs and sheriffs don't want their officers
acting as Border Patrol agents, and they have said that fear keeps illegals from
cooperating when they become crime victims. What happened in Delray Beach is the
result of failed federal policy. The scam worked for as long as it did because
the nation doesn't have an effective way to control who comes and goes and to
monitor who is here.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS ARE ALSO TAXPAYERS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 646 words


The Lake Worth Resource Center celebrated its one-year anniversary last week, a
milestone which predictably caused shrill critics to call for an end to the
center's existence.

The complaints were familiar, which also is predictable because the country has
made no progress resolving the debate over immigration issues that have been
around for decades. Lake Worth commissioners approved the center at the city
shuffleboard courts as a pragmatic solution to a nagging problem: day laborers,
most of them immigrants, soliciting work from motorists on the downtown streets.
It was a nuisance and a hazard.

The center has been successful at restoring a large measure of order. About 720
workers have found jobs, and 240 employers have registered their businesses,
according to director Lisa Wilson. Beyond job placement, hundreds of workers
have completed classes in everything from computers to cake decorations.

Lake Worth modeled its center after one in Jupiter. Supporters in both cities
understood that this was an imperfect treatment for symptoms of a complex
national ailment. Unlike members of Congress, supporters also understood that
they couldn't do nothing.

It's easy for federal lawmakers to hide in Washington. Elected officials in
places like Lake Worth and Jupiter have to live with the problem every day. But
wherever you are, it takes plenty of political courage to embrace these resource
centers, these imperfect yet necessary remedies.

The most annoying criticisms of the centers are that they coddle illegal
immigrants who don't deserve the support of local governments and U.S.
taxpayers. In fact, the centers are agnostic toward immigration status and try
to help whoever walks through their doors. Many of the workers are in the
country legally, and some are native-born and have lived here all their lives.
Almost all the employers are U.S. citizens, and nearly all the services they
provide go to U.S. citizens.

It's a safe bet, however, that most of the workers registered at the centers are
here illegally. They deserve the support of local government, however, not only
because they contribute mightily to the economy but because they pay taxes just
like U.S. citizens.

That's right, illegal immigrants are taxpayers, too.

They contribute in the form of payroll taxes -- about $9 billion a year to
Social Security, according to one study. Because most have fraudulent Social
Security numbers, they can't collect benefits; the money never leaves the
system. Your mother's Social Security check might have been paid out with money
paid in by an illegal immigrant.

Illegal immigrants also pay income taxes. Again, most workers with fraudulent
Social Security numbers have money withheld from their paychecks, and that money
stays in the system. The IRS allows people without a Social Security number to
pay taxes through an individual taxpayer ID. The IRS told Congress that the
country would get about $7 billion a year this way from illegal immigrants. Many
of them are eligible for refunds but never try to collect because they fear
deportation.

Most illegal immigrants are renters, so they pay the full range of property
taxes through their landlords. Do you know a landlord who doesn't pass on his
operating expenses to his tenants?

Every time an illegal immigrant eats at a restaurant or buys a T-shirt at
Walmart, he pays the same Florida sales tax as legal residents. Every time he
fills the tank in his car he pays the same federal, state and county taxes that
native motorists do.

There are legitimate reasons not to like the resource centers. They are, after
all, an inadequate substitute for the comprehensive immigration reform that
Congress owes the country. But don't criticize them for coddling illegal
immigrants. Those immigrants get no free ride here.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'DREAM' WALKERS ADDRESS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' PLIGHT

BYLINE: By WILLIE HOWARD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Four Miami-Dade County college students braved cold winds Wednesday to discuss
the plight of undocumented immigrants as part of the Trail of Dreams walk -- a
months-long trek from Miami to the nation's capital to build support for
immigration reform.

"I cannot ignore the fact that people in my community are disappearing," said
Juan Rodriguez, 23, a native of Colombia who moved to the United States at age 6
and since has obtained permanent resident status.

Another Dream walker, Felipe Matos, 23, a native of Brazil, said he has won
academic awards at Miami Dade College but cannot get a driver license and can't
work legally.

Dressed in a sweatshirt and blue stocking cap, Matos broke into song at city
hall. "We who believe in freedom cannot rest until it comes," he sang to a
receptive crowd of about 50.

City Commissioner Cara Jennings read a proclamation declaring Jan. 6 Dreamer's
Day in Lake Worth to commemorate the walkers' visit.

Sheriff's deputies mingled with the crowd in case of conflict, but no problems
arose at city hall or at the Lake Worth Resource Center. There, the walkers and
supporters enjoyed a hot lunch of rice, meat, beans and tortillas before
continuing to West Palm Beach, where they planned to participate in an
interfaith service at St. Ann Catholic Church.

The walkers are scheduled to stop today at the Mangonia Park offices of U.S.
Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, before continuing to Martin County.

Supporters so far have provided food and shelter for the walkers. Members of
like-minded organizations such as the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant
Rights have joined the walkers, who hiked along Dixie Highway from Boynton
Beach.

The Trail of Dreams was named in part for the American Dream Act -- proposed
federal legislation that would provide conditional resident status to
undocumented students of "good moral character."

When they arrive in the capital, the walkers say they hope to ask President
Obama to use his executive powers to stop the deportation of students who were
brought to the United States as children and stop deportations that separate
families with American-born members.

"We're going to deliver the dreams to Obama," Matos said.

~willie_howard@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COLUMN NEEDED TO POINT OUT BIAS IN IMMIGRATION POLL

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 297 words


Dan Moffett's Jan. 5 column, "Pulpits vs. pews on illegal immigrants," relied on
a recent Zobgy poll, commissioned by the Center for Immigration Studies without
highlighting the extreme anti-immigrant ties of CIS or how the organization's
agenda clearly crafted the survey and its methodology to suit its desired
anti-immigration viewpoint.

It's not surprising that CIS would try to push back against recent
pro-immigration advocacy from Catholic, evangelical and Jewish faith leaders;
the poll's methodology, however, leaves a lot to be desired. Not only were the
questions engineered to produce anti-immigration responses, those who
participate in online "opt-in" surveys are not a random sample of the general
population. So great are the discrepancies that Robert Jones, president of
Public Religion Research, concluded that the "poll has serious methodological
shortcomings, and results should be viewed with considerable caution."

Incidentally, for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, Zogby
conducted an October 2008 poll of 1,000 Catholics that showed broad support for
immigration reform. The poll found that 69 percent support "a path to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants, provided they register with the
government." Unlike the CIS-sponsored poll, the results for the bishops also
track results of other nationwide polls showing that the broad majority of
Americans support immigration reform including a legalization component.

While the goals of CIS are transparent to those who follow immigration issues
closely, we believe that the organization's anti-immigration agenda was absent
in Mr. Moffett's column.

PATTY KUPFER

Washington, D.C.

Editor's note: Patty Kupfer is director of campaign partnerships for America's
Voice, a pro-immigration reform group.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COUNT ILLEGALS AND LEGALS ;
 Crist responsible on census. Rubio just the opposite.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 439 words


If Marco Rubio is willing to make his election a higher priority than his state,
he isn't qualified to represent Florida in the Senate.

In his attempt to run far to the right of Gov. Crist in the Republican primary,
the former Florida House speaker's campaign wheels have left the pavement when
it comes to immigration. Last week, Mr. Rubio abandoned his earlier, sensible
attitude by shrieking that the census count for Florida should include only
those immigrants here legally. The comment may get Mr. Rubio votes from some
anti-illegal immigrant conservatives, but his position is irresponsible.

The federal government uses the decennial census to determine states' allocation
of money and congressional seats. We won't attempt now to settle the debate over
how much illegal immigrants contribute to or cost the economy, but the children
of illegal immigrants attend public schools and illegals seek health care at
public clinics and hospitals. Immigration is a federal responsibility, so
reimbursement to Florida from Washington makes proper sense.

Gov. Crist's campaign made this point, citing a report by the online
usimmigrationsupport.org that Florida has roughly 700,000 undocumented
immigrants. The Crist campaign further noted that, according to a pair of
credible studies, states lose between $456 and $854 for every undocumented
person whom the census misses. Using only the midpoint of that range, Florida
could lose roughly $500 million under Mr. Rubio's approach.

In the Legislature, Mr. Rubio had a much different view. Two years ago,
then-Rep. Gayle Harrell, R-Port St. Lucie, used immigration demagoguery in her
failed campaign for Congress. Ms. Harrell filed a bill to prevent local
governments from helping to create immigrant labor centers like El Sol in
Jupiter. Noting that immigration is a federal responsibility, Mr. Rubio called
such legislation "political grandstanding." When Ms. Harrell tried to tout her
bill in taxpayer-financed mailings, Mr. Rubio's office changed the wording.
"Illegal immigration is costly to Floridians" became "Studies show illegal
immigration is costly to Floridians."

To please far-right primary voters, Gov. Crist's campaign statements have begun
including juvenile references to the "Democrat Party" that are standard on talk
radio. He blasts President Obama every now and then. Even though he soon wants
to be Sen. Crist, however, Gov. Crist isn't giving up his current job when it
comes to the census and Florida. Some voters may fantasize about mass
deportation, but it won't and shouldn't happen. Congress should pass immigration
reform, and the census should count all immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ALIEN FORCES IN JUPITER

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 708 words


A national wedge issue has slipped across political borders into the town of
Jupiter's municipal election.

That issue is illegal immigration, and the stalking horse for challengers in the
March 9 election is the Jupiter Neighborhood Resource Center, known as El Sol.
It opened in 2006 and solved a problem. In the revisionist history of 2010, the
center has become the problem.

Before El Sol, people seeking day labor -- most of them immigrants, legal and
illegal -- gathered at daybreak on Center Street, one of Jupiter's main roads.
This bothered Jupiter residents, and rightfully so. It was a safety issue, with
prospective employers cruising and laborers chasing.

Jupiter's elected officials could have called out the Minutemen and postured for
TV cameras. But Jupiter seeks to solve problems, not exploit them, and no one
wanted to turn the police department into the Border Patrol. A series of
meetings produced the idea of a center where laborers could meet employers
safely.

Given the liability issues, the town correctly didn't want to run the labor
center, but Jupiter did have a possible site. The town had bought the Lifesong
Community Church, next to city hall, for expansion of staff space. Jupiter
didn't need the property yet. Catholic Charities found enough money to start the
program. Jupiter leased the property for $1 a year to the not-for-profit El Sol
LLC. Problem solved.

Not entirely. To its critics, El Sol aids and abets illegal immigration. Before
he resigned in disgrace from Congress, Mark Foley blasted El Sol and Jupiter,
though immigration is a federal issue and El Sol offers classes in English and
other skills that help immigrants learn to ... be Americans. The center's
director, Jocelyn Sabbagh, was named Outstanding Senior in 2007 of Florida
Atlantic University's honors campus in Jupiter. El Sol is working.

This year, though, all the challengers in the race for mayor and two council
seats read from the same talking points. El Sol "should be a resource center for
all of Jupiter." Jupiter needs "an exit strategy" for El Sol. El Sol should not
be "a burden on taxpayers." Rather than go after illegal immigrants, the
candidates go after El Sol.

Why now? When El Sol opened, Florida's unemployment rate was about 3 percent.
Now, it's nearly 12 percent. Budgets are tight. Suddenly, El Sol isn't making
Jupiter's streets safer; it's taking jobs from Jupiter residents and wasting
taxpayer money on illegal immigrants. So let's consider all the accusations.

* El Sol should be open to all Jupiter residents. It is, and always has been.
Not surprisingly, though, most American citizens want more than day labor. But
Ms. Sabbagh has seen a "noticeable increase" over the past six months in
Americans coming to El Sol. Imagine, she says, someone who had a
pressure-cleaning business but now can't make it.

The center, Ms. Sabbagh says, has placed natives and immigrants, checking
whatever document is available to identify someone as a resident of Jupiter. But
El Sol never was meant to be the town equivalent of the state Agency for
Workforce Innovation, which helps Floridians find full-time work.

* Jupiter needs an "exit strategy" for El Sol. The lease expires at year's end.
Any "exit strategy" would involve someone else donating property. If Jupiter
didn't renew the lease and El Sol closed, laborers -- and the old problem --
would be back on Center Street.

* El Sol is "a burden to taxpayers." The center has four paid staffers and about
140 volunteers. The budget of about $200,000, Ms. Sabbagh says, comes "mostly
from foundations and grants." Jupiter gives El Sol no operating subsidy. The
town did spend $28,500 on post-hurricane roof repairs to the church and upkeep.
As Town Manager Andy Lukasik notes, however, "We own the property."

And Jupiter still has no pressing need for the property, bought for $1.9 million
in 2005, during the boom. These days, governments are cutting staff. Would it
make sense to close El Sol and leave the building vacant? Jupiter showed
Congress that political bravery can look practical. Those trying to create a
wedge issue in the town are showing political cowardice.

Randy Schultz is the editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His
e-mail address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE MUST COUNT ON ILLEGALS ;
 Florida needs their help in the census.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 647 words


Every politician in the state welcomes the 2010 Census because the new numbers
could bring Florida more federal money and another seat in Congress.

Where it gets sticky is taking a position on whom the government's counters
should count.

Former Florida House Speaker Marco Rubio, who's running for the Senate, found
that out last month when he said the census should count only U.S. citizens.
Within 24 hours, Mr. Rubio had to reverse himself after hearing complaints from
immigrant groups. OK, he said, maybe the census should count non-citizen legal
immigrants, but not illegal ones.

Mr. Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, reasons that citizens' collective voting
clout is diminished by each non-citizen counted. He also thinks that counting
illegal immigrants would constitute a tacit validation of unlawful behavior and
a broken system.

Neither argument is worth much. The dilution of voting power is less than
minuscule, and buying a pound of tomatoes does more to perpetuate the
dysfunctional system than anything the census could do. What Mr. Rubio really
wants is to market himself as the conservative Republican alternative to Gov.
Crist, his opponent.

This is easy enough when it comes to immigration, because the governor has
staked out a position 180 degrees away. Gov. Crist says "every Floridian should
be counted," which means that everyone residing in the state should be
considered a Floridian -- a horrifying thought to those on the GOP's right edge.

While Mr. Rubio seems intent on coming off as an ideologue, Gov. Crist is just
as pragmatic about the realities of economics and immigration. The government
will divide up about $400 billion in federal aid based on census numbers.
Florida will get shortchanged if its count comes up short.

That happened the last time, as the governor understands. In 2000, Florida
ranked last among the 10 most populous states, with a census response rate well
below the national average.

Three years ago, the Department of Homeland Security estimated that there were
just under 1 million illegal immigrants in Florida, or roughly 8 percent of the
12 million who were in the country. Those numbers have dropped because of the
recession, but the proportions are about the same.

If he would disappear for a while and come up with an Argentinian mistress, Mr.
Rubio could be mistaken for South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford, who tried to turn
down federal stimulus money even as his state faced big budget cuts. But with
such a viral presence on cable TV, Mr. Rubio may be the most ubiquitous
politician in the country, so census workers and everyone else will have no
trouble finding him.

Finding the people the government wants to count is another matter. More
complicated than the politics is the psychology.

With deportations rising and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
staging high-profile sweeps in Palm Beach County and across the state,
immigrants -- legal or illegal -- are reluctant to speak with government
counters. After ICE arrested several Guatemalans at a nearby Federal Express
office in November, the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center in Jupiter brought
in census workers to talk to immigrants and encourage them to cooperate.

"People are definitely intimidated," says Jill Hanson, El Sol's president. "On
the other hand, I think the census workers who spoke at El Sol, as well as our
efforts to reassure people, seem to have helped reassure them. We hope to be
having 'community committees' that will encourage and assist people to fill out
the forms."

Gov. Crist plans to spend $2.1 million on advertising and promotions to get
Floridians to stand up and be counted. The friendly persuasion at places like El
Sol will be just as important to getting an accurate picture of the state's
churning, evolving population.

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MASSAGE PARLOR TIED TO PROSTITUTION

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 398 words


A woman who operated Asian massage parlors in suburban West Palm Beach,
Jacksonville and Connecticut hired illegal immigrants and put them to work as
prostitutes, federal prosecutors said Monday.

Mal Suk Kim, 60, faces charges of harboring illegal immigrants and money
laundering, according to documents filed Monday by Assistant U.S. Attorney John
C. McMillan.

Originally arrested in 2008 after a lengthy investigation, Mal was charged in
U.S. District Court by information, which usually signals a defendant is
cooperating with prosecutors.

Her attorney couldn't be reached for comment Monday afternoon.

Another woman, Hannah Eun Sung Chong, 50, of Wellington, agreed last year to
plead guilty to charges of harboring illegal immigrants and money laundering. A
sentencing hearing is set for her in July.

Agents with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the IRS, the FBI and the
Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office spent eight months staking out Coral Spa, at
4730 Okeechobee Blvd., before raiding it in September 2008, records show.

Inside, they found two Korean women who admitted to investigators they were
living in Florida illegally, ICE Special Agent Kenneth R. Cisneros said in a
sworn statement.

The women said they had come to work at the spa by way of New York, and one
admitted routinely committing sex acts with men who paid her $20 to $40 per
massage session, Cisneros said.

The other woman, speaking through a translator, told agents Mal advised her to
"use her body and love him like his wife" when dealing with clients, Cisneros
said.

The women told authorities Mal and Chong allowed them to live in a back room at
the massage parlor, and said they paid $200 a month for food.

Seized records indicated Mal owned 50 percent of the massage parlor before
selling it to Chong in 2008.

Mal also operated S&D Therapy massage parlor in Jacksonville and Oriental Spa in
Danbury, Conn., Cisneros said.

If convicted, Mal will have to surrender $150,000 to the federal government, the
information said.

Her former business Coral Spa still is operating on Okeechobee Boulevard,
records show.

Two months after the raid in 2008, the corporation dropped Chong's name from its
records and added Kam Y. Chong -- who operated S&D Therapy in Jacksonville with
Mal -- as president.

Last April, the company added another officer, Yon Suk Cho of Clarksville, Md.,
records show.

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDERING ON LUNACY

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 658 words


Can you tell the difference between Mexican-Americans and illegal immigrants
from Mexico? Do they look different? Is it something in the way they dress, the
way they walk, or the way they cut their hair? Maybe it's the car they drive or
the way they drive it.

How about the difference between Mexican nationals who have come here legally on
a U.S. visa and Mexican nationals who haven't? Is there something in their
demeanor that tips you off? Maybe what they order at a restaurant or how they
order it? Is there something in their voice or something about their complexion?

If you're a police officer in Arizona, you have to start thinking about these
questions. Last week, Arizona lawmakers approved legislation that will give
local and state law-enforcement officers broad powers to question and detain
people over their immigration status. The police would be authorized to arrest
people who can't produce documents showing that they belong in the country.
Anyone who assists someone without proper documents also would be subject to
punishment.

What sets the Arizona law apart from similar bills in other states is the
threshold for action. Officers will be able to make arrests based on a
"reasonable suspicion" that a person may be in the country illegally.

So what constitutes reasonable suspicion? Is it appearance, demeanor, vehicle
type, or what? And how does Officer X's idea of reasonable suspicion square with
Officer Y's and Officer Z's? What types of documents are police prepared to
accept? Do they understand the difference between TPS, H-1B, H-2A, asylum,
humanitarian parole and dozens of other U.S. immigration designations that,
after decades of politically inspired revisions, are ridiculously nuanced and
complicated?

Good luck to Arizonans, especially U.S. citizens of Hispanic descent and anyone
with an accent who leaves his wallet at home or isn't traveling with an
immigration lawyer. Arizona legislators who voted for the bill said they wanted
to send a message to illegal immigrants to stay out of the state. What the
politicians also have done, however, is to create a license for racial profiling
the likes of which the country hasn't seen in many years.

Blame Congress for this and hundreds of other pieces of bad legislation that
state legislatures and local governments have passed in futile attempts to fix
the dysfunctional system. Washington has failed to pass a comprehensive plan to
secure borders and deal with the 11 million illegal immigrants already here.
That failure has frustrated people facing the problem to act in ways they
shouldn't.

Until now, most of the bad ideas have been unfair to immigrants. The Arizona law
threatens the constitutional protections of citizens, too. Among the many groups
opposing it is the Arizona Police Chiefs Association, which recognizes the
damage the law will do to working relationships with Hispanic residents that are
essential to solving crimes.

Meanwhile, the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center and other immigrant groups
report an increase in profiling complaints against law enforcement, with dozens
of cases reported in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast. Civil rights and
immigrant advocates cite federal 287(g) agreements with several sheriff's
offices and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for miscasting police in
the roles of immigration agents. The Arizona law gives 287(g)-type authority to
police without proper training or the federal partnership.

As immigration reform languishes in Congress, more state and local governments
will persuade themselves to take matters into their own hands. More police
agencies will wander into immigration enforcement -- just because they can and
because other police agencies are doing it.

The danger is that Americans will resort to profiling, the most un-American of
methods, to deal with their immigration mess.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE SHOWDOWN TAKES SHAPE

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: WEST MIAMI


After a ceremony in Spanish and English to mark his signing of candidate papers
for the U.S. Senate, Republican Marco Rubio broke with some GOP conservatives
Tuesday and cautiously criticized a new Arizona law that attempts to crack down
on illegal immigration.

Some observers saw it as a sign that Rubio, who has surged to a commanding GOP
primary lead over Gov. Charlie Crist, is shifting gears for a general election
campaign against Democratic front-runner Kendrick Meek and, perhaps, a no-party
candidacy by Crist.

Rubio, however, said he'll run the same race he's run since he began as a
long-shot candidate against the establishment-backed Crist more than a year ago.

On Tuesday, he returned to a park in his hometown as the overwhelming Republican
favorite. He signed his candidate papers on a stage that featured busts of
Abraham Lincoln and Cuban independence icon José Martí and an enormous American
flag.

The fact that the son of Cuban immigrants could run for Senate, Rubio said, is a
"testament to America's greatness."

Speaking to reporters afterward, he was asked about the Arizona law that has
become a national flashpoint in the debate over illegal immigration since Gov.
Jan Brewer signed it last week.

Critics say the law is an invitation to racial profiling. Rubio said Arizona's
measure reflects failure by the federal government.

"We have a runaway illegal immigration problem that the federal government has
failed to handle. And the result is states like Arizona have had to take
action," Rubio said.

But, he added, "I think that the law has potential unintended consequences and
it's one of the reasons why I think immigration needs to be a federal issue, not
a state one."

More specifically, Rubio said, "Everyone is concerned with the prospect of the
'reasonable suspicion' provisions, where individuals can be pulled over because
someone suspects that they may not be legal in this country. I think over time
people will grow uncomfortable with that."

On the prospect of suspects showing documentation to police to prove they are
legal, Rubio said, "That's not really something that Americans are comfortable
with, the notion of a police state."

Rubio also took issue with President Obama and other Democrats who have
criticized the Arizona law.

"My hope is that the Obama administration doesn't use this as an excuse to ram
through amnesty or something that would make it impossible for us to have a
legal immigration system that works," Rubio said.

On Tuesday, Obama warned of harassment against Hispanics under the new law,
saying such "poorly conceived" measures can be halted if the federal government
fixes the nation's broken immigration system for good. Obama pledged to bring
his own party along, pleading with Republicans to join in as the only realistic
hope to solve a politically volatile problem.

Rubio said he favors tougher border security and technological measures to
modernize immigration, including better employer verification of workers'
immigration status.

The Arizona law has been championed by many of the conservative base voters who
have flocked to Rubio.

"This is the first time since Rubio really made inroads with the conservative
base of the Republican Party that he's straddled an issue," said University of
Central Florida political scientist Aubrey Jewett.

"It's possible that he's beginning to position himself for a general election.
... Of course, it may be possible that this is his real heartfelt belief,"
Jewett said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sound off: What do you think of Arizona's new law on illegal
immigration? PostOnPolitics.com Who has filed so far? See a full list of
candidates.PalmBeachPost.com/go/candidatesMARCO RUBIOWhat Arizona's law does
ZRequires police to 'reasonably attempt' to determine the immigration status of
anyone they have 'reasonable suspicion' to believe is illegal. ZIf an immigrant
is arrested on other charges, his status must be determined before he is
released. ZPolice cannot rely solely on race, color or national origin in
deciding whom to approach. ZForms of acceptable identification: driver license,
government-issued ID cards.

GRAPHIC:  LYNNE SLADKY/The Associated Press It's official:Marco Rubio, with his
daughter Daniella, 7, and son Anthony, 4, fills out candidate papers Tuesday in
West Miami. Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, called his candidacy a
'testament to America's greatness.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PLAYERS' UNION WARNS OF ARIZ. LAW'S FALLOUT

BYLINE: By JOE CAPOZZI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: MIAMI GARDENS


Marlins third baseman Jorge Cantu was born in McAllen, Texas, and grew up near
the U.S.-Mexico border. He has dual citizenship, owns a cattle ranch in Mexico
and had breakfast with Vicente Fox when he was president of Mexico.

Cantu's experiences give him special sensitivity to immigration issues -- and to
the new law in Arizona that cracks down on illegal immigrants and has sparked
protests nationwide.

"It bothers me. I think it's bad. I feel bad for my countrymen, for sure,''
Cantu said Friday.

He is not alone.

The Major League Baseball Players' Union on Friday sent a memo to
representatives for all 30 teams, warning that the law could have a negative
effect on players and their families. Twenty-seven percent of major-league
players are foreign-born.

The law, which goes into effect in three months, will make it a crime in Arizona
to be in the country illegally and directs police to question people about their
immigration status and demand to see their documents if there is reason to
suspect they are in the country illegally.

"Imagine if you have a major-league baseball player walking down the street and
the Arizona police are going to pull them over and they don't even speak
English. We have a lot of that,'' Washington Nationals pitcher Miguel Batista,
who was born in the Dominican Republic and owns property in Arizona, said before
Friday's game.

"What are they going to do, take him to jail because he doesn't have his
passport with him and the team has to go get him out? It's going to be a very
controversial thing.''

The Marlins make one visit to Arizona this year, July 8-11. The Diamondbacks
visit South Florida on May 17-18.

When the Diamondbacks played Thursday in Chicago, protesters gathered outside
Wrigley Field.

U.S. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-New York, has called for Major League Baseball to pull
the 2011 All-Star Game from Phoenix.

The state could be susceptible to further protests related to baseball since
half of the major-league teams hold spring training in Arizona.

Cantu and Batista said the issue has not been a hot topic in their respective
clubhouses. But they said that could change now that the union is involved.

"We should be looking into it because we have a lot of our clients walking down
the street of Arizona and they are exposed ... to being harassed," Batista said.
"That's what we believe that law is doing."

Cantu said he feels worse for Mexicans who don't make a living playing baseball.

"People sometimes struggle," he said. "They come here to make a better life for
themselves. With this going on right now, I feel really bad for my countrymen."

~joe_capozzi@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

GRAPHIC:  Cantu Bothered, feels bad for Mexican countrymen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

13 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS INTERCEPTED OFF PALM BEACH

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


In the dead of night, federal agents intercepted a boat loaded with illegal
immigrants after a high-seas chase that ended 10 miles east of Palm Beach.

Four of the 13 people hoping to sneak onto Florida soil last week previously had
been deported from the U.S., according to a sworn statement filed Monday in U.S.
District Court.

The passengers, who came from Jamaica and the Dominican Republic, told
immigration agents they paid between $2,700 and $8,000 to smugglers named
"Yellow" or "Rambo."

About 7 p.m. last Wednesday, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents got a tip
about a smuggling sortie on board a boat named the Mary Carla.

A Border Patrol aircraft spotted the boat about 11 p.m. and followed it until
federal agents boarded it after midnight, according to a statement by Special
Agent Brian Stafford of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The Mary Carla's captain, Kelsey James McQueen, 41, of the Bahamas, told
immigration agents he was to be paid $7,000 to ferry the immigrants between
Nassau and Palm Beach County.

McQueen has been charged with alien smuggling. His attorney couldn't be reached
for comment.

The four passengers who previously had been deported were charged with illegal
re-entry into the U.S. after deportation.

The smugglers attempted the foiled run about a year after a similar effort
killed as many as 14 immigrants who tumbled into the Gulf Stream after their
boat capsized in the night. Rescuers fished the survivors, mostly Haitians, from
the waters east of Palm Beach County and brought them ashore to be returned
home.

~michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 428 words


Gutless leaders refuse to tackle immigration

I read with interest The Post's article "Illegal immigrants paying taxes?" I
don't know about anyone else, but I am sick and tired of all this illegal
immigrant nonsense. Do they pay taxes? Don't they pay taxes? Do they or do they
not have Social Security numbers? It's all irrelevant.

My first reaction was, what is it that our stalwart leaders in Washington do not
understand about the word illegal? Then I came to my senses. It is not that they
do not understand it; they do not have the courage to do anything.

Presidents Hoover, Truman and Eisenhower all deported illegal immigrants. With
millions of hardworking Americans unemployed, with the largest national debt in
our history, and with so many Americans losing their homes, to even consider
granting citizenship to illegal immigrants is irresponsible, to say the least.

CLARENCE R. RYDBERG

Jupiter

Why is Goodman crash inquiry taking so long?

A terrible accident occurred on Feb. 12, when Scott Wilson perished in his
Hyundai Sonata. I am not a crime scene reporter, but no one seems to contest
that John Goodman's Bentley ran a stop sign and drove Mr. Wilson's car into a
canal.

The Wilson family has filed lawsuits, but the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
has not completed its investigation.

There are 20-plus witnesses to Mr. Goodman's whereabouts and his activities
prior to this accident. Mr. Goodman left the scene. Mr. Goodman, the sheriff's
office said, may have "allowable" reasons for leaving: lack of a cellphone. Has
anyone called Bentley for the on-board easy answer? And the location of his
cellphone can be tracked by the authorities. I cannot fathom Mr. Goodman tooling
around in a Bentley without adequate mobile communication technology.

SCOTT HOLLINGSWORTH

West Palm Beach

Too much math, science means more dropouts

It is too bad the people didn't take a closer look at the new requirements for
graduation, which the governor signed. Adding chemistry or physics plus the new
math requirements will just mean more dropouts. Why didn't they think of some
vocational education for the benefit of some of our school population?

LOUISE DANIELS

Jupiter

Holocaust story a moving reminder

Thanks to Samantha Frank for her article on the Schanzer family. It is
understandable that Wolfgang Schanzer couldn't discuss the Holocaust. Through
the efforts of his wife, his German teacher, Norbert Ebbinghaus, and Ms. Frank,
however, many readers here, and I hope in Germany, can feel the human
connection. We all must forgive, but never forget.

BARBARA DE RENZO

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DANGEROUS, NOT JUST ILLEGAL

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 507 words


Draconian attempts to identify illegal immigrants can encourage racial profiling
and harassment of people who are in this country legally. That's the danger in
Arizona's new law. But advocates for fair treatment of immigrants damage their
own cause if they try to protect illegal immigrants who have committed violent
crimes.

That's the case with criticism of the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office for its
sensible decision to share fingerprint information with federal immigration
authorities. Local cooperation is part of a national effort called Secure
Communities.

As The Post reported last month, fingerprints of people booked into the Palm
Beach County Jail now will be checked not only against the FBI database but with
the Department of Homeland Security database. Hits that identify illegal
immigrants who have committed serious crimes will trigger notification of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Criminals pinpointed in that way will be
deported when the U.S. legal system is done with them.

Critics such as the Florida Immigrant Coalition complain that people snagged for
minor offenses could be deported. Spokesman Subhash Kateel told Post reporter
John Lantigua that only 12 percent of those deported had committed serious
crimes, and that "many of the people deported were simply arrested for certain
crimes and not convicted of those crimes."

ICE officials dispute that 12 percent figure and point out that 18,000 illegal
immigrants who committed serious crimes have been identified since the program
began in 2008. Four thousand have been deported. Even if the figure were only 12
percent, though, what's wrong with preventing those serious criminals from
getting back on the street?

In the 1950s, President Eisenhower ordered Operation Wetback, to return illegal
immigrants to Mexico. The program was both successful and controversial, and
finally was abandoned. There's no way to tell, but such a massive effort today
could be a waste of law-enforcement resources. It also could seriously disrupt
businesses that, like it or not, rely on the labor. Washington's failure to
devise a more rational plan is irresponsible and has prompted anger and
overreactions like Arizona's.

But there are overreactions on the other side as well. Protesters in Lake Worth
trashed both the Arizona law and the fingerprint cooperation. At that event,
Lake Worth City Commissioner Jo-Ann Golden said: "We all need to not fight with
each other about who's American and who's not American. We are all American."

That is not true. People who are not Americans do have rights. But those here
illegally don't have the right to stay.

In any case, serious criminals -- American citizens or not -- do not have the
right to escape detection because law enforcement chooses not to share
fingerprints of suspects in custody. Illegal immigrants can be driven by
economic desperation. They can be the victims of exploitation. Sympathy for them
is understandable. Sympathy for violent illegal immigrants that keeps them in
this country is seriously misplaced.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TOP FLORIDA REPUBLICANS SOFTEN STANCE ON ARIZ. LAW

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 886 words


Arizona's controversial crackdown on illegal immigration, in its original and
amended forms, has become a touchy issue in Florida Republican politics.

Republican Senate candidate Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush raised racial
profiling concerns and spoke out against the law that Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
signed April 23. Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, the GOP front-runner
for governor this year, also voiced qualms.

But all three said their profiling concerns were satisfied when Arizona amended
the law to more narrowly define when police could question people about their
immigration status.

McCollum put out a May 13 statement saying he'd support a similar law in Florida
"if the federal government fails to secure our borders and solve the problem of
illegal immigration."

McCollum later said he doesn't believe the situation has reached the point where
such a law would be necessary in Florida. That drew an attack ad Saturday from
McCollum's multimillionaire GOP primary rival, Rick Scott.

"Rick Scott backs Arizona's law. He'll bring it to Florida," the new ad says.

Critics of the Arizona law, including the ACLU and groups that favor liberalized
immigration, say the amended version of the law will still lead police to target
people based on their skin color or accent and even expand the number of
situations where people can be questioned.

The original version of the Arizona law required police, during "any lawful
contact" with a person, to attempt to determine the person's immigration status
if "reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien who is unlawfully
present in the United States."

The law said that suspicion could not be "solely" based on race, color or
national origin.

With critics calling the "lawful contact" language too vague, Arizona
legislators changed the wording the following week to say "lawful stop,
detention or arrest." They also removed the word "solely," so the law now says
police may not consider race, color or national origin "except to the extent
permitted by the United States or Arizona Constitution."

Where candidates stand

A few days after Arizona lawmakers changed the language, Rubio told the
conservative publication Human Events that he supported the measure.

But Rubio has said elsewhere that while he considers the Arizona law "improved,"
he doesn't think states should wade into immigration issues.

"I don't believe that what Arizona did is the ideal way to deal with it," Rubio
said in a May 7 interview while he and Bush were making a joint appearance in
Pasco County. "I believe it's a federal responsibility, the federal government
should deal with it. But I do believe that they've improved the bill from what
they passed. But again, this should be a federal issue dealt with by the federal
government."

Bush expressed similar sentiments.

"I was happy to see that the Arizona Legislature clarified some issues that were
of obvious concern to a lot of residents of Arizona ... just to make it clear
that this was not designed for profiling," the former governor said. "But it
doesn't change, in my opinion at least, the fact that this should be a federal
responsibility. There are all sorts of consequences having states,
state-by-state, do these things."

In the Florida Republican governor's primary, while McCollum announced support
for the Arizona law after it was amended, Scott and state Sen. Paula Dockery of
Lakeland say they backed the original law.

The leading Democratic candidate for governor, Chief Financial Officer Alex
Sink, opposes the Arizona law in its original and amended forms.

In the U.S. Senate race, Democratic contenders Kendrick Meek and Jeff Greene
also oppose the Arizona law.

Gov. Charlie Crist, the former Republican now running for Senate as an
independent, has said the amended Arizona law "still disturbs me greatly"
because of the "imprecision" of its guidelines for police.

"As a grandson of a Greek immigrant, I'm very disappointed in what's happening
in Arizona and I don't think it's representative of what Americans want or
embrace," Crist told The Associated Press.

While some of the Arizona changes appear to limit racial profiling, David
Leopold of the American Immigration Lawyers Association said other amendments
increase opportunities for police to question people about their status.

Arizona legislators added language saying the law applies "in the enforcement of
any other law or ordinance of a county, city or town or this state."

Fear of a 'police state'

That means simple code enforcement issues could now escalate to immigration
matters, Leopold said.

"If some guy has his grass too long, some guy leaves out a kiddie pool, they can
now be stopped," Leopold said.

Arizona ACLU Director Alessandra Soler Meetze said the "reasonable suspicion"
standard in the Arizona law is "not a workable standard. ... The reality is
they're not going to question somebody who doesn't look or sound foreign."

Soler Meetze said the law creates a "police state" that makes the state's large
Hispanic population a target for racial profiling.

"There's no doubt that something needs to be done to address the flow of drugs
and cash and humans along the border," the ACLU director said, but "I'm not sure
I could give you an answer of what could be done."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  What the amended law says ZThe words crossedoutbelow were in the
original law but were deleted when the law was amended. ZThe words in bold were
added in the amended version. For any lawful contact stop, detention or arrest
made by a law enforcement official or a law enforcement agency of this state or
a law enforcement official or a law enforcement agency of a county, city, town
or other political subdivision of this state in the enforcement of any other law
or ordinance of a county, city or town or this state where reasonable suspicion
exists that the person is an alienwho and is unlawfully present in the United
States, a reasonable attempt shall be made, when practicable, to determine the
immigration status of the person, except if the determination may hinder or
obstruct an investigation. ...A law enforcement official or agency of this state
or a county, city, town or other political subdivision of this state may not
solelyconsider race, color or national origin in implementing the requirements
of this subsection except to the extent permitted by the United States or
Arizona Constitution.How Arizona's law evolved Original and amended language. 4A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TB cases not about illegals ;
 Disease still noteradicated in this country.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 442 words


Sadly but predictably, two tuberculosis cases at Palm Beach County schools have
touched off a new round of anti-immigrant sentiment. So let's look at the facts
of this public health issue, not the myths.

Palm Beach County sees about 60 cases of TB each year. Immigrants, legal or
illegal, are not responsible for every case. Confidentiality rules prevent
health officials from identifying the children who brought TB into Seminole
Ridge High School in Loxahatchee and Orchard View Elementary in Delray Beach.

As The Post's Stacey Singer reported, however, some assumed that Haitian
earthquake victims -- the school district enrolled 650 -- are responsible for
exposing other students. "Haitian refugees and illegals," said one comment on
the paper's website, "are carrying all kinds of diseases that we haven't had
here in decades." Said another: "This is what you get when you open the borders
to indigents."

While it's true that diseases such as TB are more prevalent in poor countries
such as Haiti that lack quality health care, the disease has yet to be
eradicated in the United States. Tim O'Connor, a spokesman for the Palm Beach
County Health Department, said that five years ago the county averaged 90 TB
cases a year. That number has steadily gone down, but still averages about 60.

Knowing the profiles of the sick children also is far less important than
knowing that the health department is doing everything possible to identify
those at risk for contracting TB and treating those who have it.

The public should know that:

* The children are no longer contagious.

* The health department is monitoring their care, to ensure that they complete
the nine-month course of antibiotics and do not become re-infected.

* None of the individuals who were in close contact with the students has tested
positive for TB.

The health department screened hundreds of Haitian earthquake victims, all of
whom had to be up to date on immunizations before they could attend school and
none tested positive for TB. Individuals with TB who don't take their medication
as prescribed are admitted to A.G. Holley State Hospital in Lantana, which
treats tuberculosis patients, and under state law must remain there until they
complete their course of antibiotics. The children with TB who attended Seminole
Ridge and Orchard View have not been admitted to A.G. Holley.

Of those patients admitted to the hospital during the 2007-08 fiscal year, 53
percent were U.S. citizens, 35percent legal immigrants and 12percent illegal
immigrants, according to the state health department.

The story now is not where the TB cases came from. The story is that the public
health system worked.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 292 words


Jupiter a sanctuary for illegal immigrants

Jupiter saw the light and became a sanctuary city for illegal aliens. That's
right! Look it up!

"Sanctuary city" is a term given to cities that follow practices that protect
illegal immigrants, and Jupiter along with Lake Worth are the model cities in
the state of Florida.

Generally, sanctuary policies instruct city employees not to notify the federal
government of the presence of illegal aliens living in the community.

According to Town Councilman Jim Kuretski and Mayor Karen Golonka, "immigrants
perform work and services that many Americans won't. Immigrants pay taxes to
local governments and they are eager to learn English."

The city officials' justification for creating sanctuary cities is often under
the guise of protecting "immigrant rights." But illegal aliens are not
immigrants. Immigrants come to the U.S. legally and maintain their legal
presence. When a person is illegally smuggled into the U.S. or violates visa
restrictions, he or she is not an immigrant or visitor, but an illegal alien
subject to deportation. Except in Jupiter!

What can we do to help stop sanctuary policies? Demand change!

JOHN KENDALL

Tequesta

Blame for spill rests with Bush/Cheney

I am disgusted with the way Republican lawmakers are using the BP oil spill to
gain political advantage.

They are criticizing President Obama for meeting with BP executives and
presumably coercing the "poor corporation" to come up with billions to pay for
the spill. To date, I have not heard any Republican place the blame where it
actually belongs -- with the Bush/Cheney administration.

During Mr. Cheney's secret meetings, they permitted the "oil people" to write
the regulations and police themselves. It didn't work.

L. MICHLOWITZ

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration allies. Really.

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 695 words


You probably can't find two candidates for the Florida Legislature who agree on
less -- except where they agree on the emotional issue of immigration.

Pat Rooney is a conservative Republican running for State House 83, a northern
Palm Beach County district. He's all for Florida passing a law similar to the
one in Arizona that will turn local cops and sheriff's deputies into the Border
Patrol, if the courts don't overturn it.

Carolyn Kaye is a liberal Democrat running for State House 86, a southwest Palm
Beach County district. She's an immigration lawyer who says, "Social justice is
not given enough protection in Florida." To Ms. Kaye, a Florida version of the
Arizona law would be "terrible."

So, where do they agree? On the idea that the country can't deport every illegal
immigrant. Mr. Rooney, whose brother, Tom, is an area congressman, wants Florida
to pass an Arizona-style law so "Washington will finally do something about
immigration." But any legislation, Mr. Rooney says, could include a program for
illegals to gain legal status and go into a system that could lead to
citizenship.

Ms. Kaye sounds like Mr. Rooney when she says that those here illegally "would
have to go to the back of the line" for citizenship and "learn English. It's
necessary for them to assimilate." And for all of Ms. Kaye's immigrant advocacy,
her charity doesn't extend to illegals who commit violent crimes. The Palm Beach
County Sheriff's Office has an arrangement with the feds under which an illegal
immigrant who commits a serious crime can get fast-tracked to deportation.
That's fine with her. "I am not concerned," Ms. Kaye says, "with criminal
aliens."

On education, taxes and regulation, Mr. Rooney is from Mars and Ms. Kaye is from
Venus. They might not be aware of how close they align on immigration. Mr.
Rooney acknowledges that he can't be certain he hasn't hired illegals at his
restaurants or his Palm Beach Kennel Club.

Since Arizona passed its controversial law three months ago, polls have shown
that a majority of Americans supports the legislation. By even higher numbers,
though, Americans support creation of a system for law-abiding, taxpaying
illegal immigrants to become Americans.

A popular Internet myth is that presidents Truman and Eisenhower dragged the
federal net through the Southwest, caught all the illegals who had come from
Mexico and sent them home. Objective reviews of "Operation Wetback" and other
efforts don't support the idea that Washington purged the country of those who
breached the southern border. If it didn't happen then; it can't happen now.

And for all the focus on that border, the issue of illegal immigrants is much
broader. A big chunk of the illegals -- one-third is a conservative estimate --
entered legally but overstayed their visas. Almost certainly, most coming from
the south entered illegally, but "illegal" means more nationally than Guatemalan
day laborers on Lake and Lucerne avenues in Lake Worth.

The frustration is that Mr. Rooney and Ms. Kaye show how the country is close to
agreement on immigration reform but can't get there because the extremes control
what passes for debate. On the far right, anything short of deportation amounts
to "amnesty." On the far left, those who fly the Mexican flag in support of
illegals are heroes.

In 2005, a bipartisan group of senators introduced what they called
comprehensive immigration reform. Some of the most unlikely combinations in
Congress have tried to team up on this issue. The most unlikely may have been
the late Sen. Edward Kennedy, the liberal Democrat from Massachusetts, and
ex.-Sen. Larry "I take a wide stance" Craig, the conservative Republican from
Idaho. President Bush, who had been governor of the biggest border state, wanted
to work with the Democrats on legislation that would reinforce border control
and make the illegals legal. His own party undermined him.

Like the country, Pat Rooney and Carolyn Kaye disagree on Arizona's immigration
law. Like the country, if they talked, they might learn how much they agree on
immigration.

Randy Schultz is the editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His
e-mail address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

State's police, sheriff's deputies already walk immigration beat

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 777 words


"Immigration," Matt Immler said, "is something I just don't have time for."

Obviously, Matt Immler is not a candidate for elected office in Florida. That's
fine with him. He's happy to be the police chief in Boynton Beach. Not that
things are easy. He's been working with other agencies in Palm Beach County to
run gangs out of his city -- there's been progress on that -- and look into
public corruption. Because of budget cuts, though, he may lose 18 employees.
They aren't sworn officers, but their absence would mean more work for the rest
of the department.

For all the furor over the issue in election campaigns, though, "Not one person
in the city has come to me and said, 'Do something about the illegal
immigrants,' " Chief Immler said last week. "They do talk a lot about dealing
with crime problems in their neighborhoods."

Florida's current attorney general, who's running for governor, and all three
Republicans running for attorney general want Florida to pass a supposedly
challenge-proof version of Arizona's law that turns police officers and
sheriff's deputies into Border Patrol agents. Rick Scott, whose hospital chain
bilked American taxpayers, got traction early in his campaign for governor by
proclaiming himself the candidate who would run the illegals out of Florida.
Just don't ask him or any of the others who would pick crops or clean hotel
rooms.

Apparently, though, none of these candidates who support an Arizona-style law
ran the idea by the people who would have to enforce it. Eleven days ago, state
Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, released a proposed bill. Rep. Snyder used to be
director of law enforcement for the Martin County Sheriff's Office. Among those
Rep. Snyder did not talk to while drafting the bill is Martin County Sheriff and
fellow Republican Robert Crowder.

Maybe that's because he didn't want to hear what Sheriff Crowder had to say.
Sheriff Crowder, who says he has called Rep. Snyder's office but hasn't heard
back, wonders why there's any need for this bill and worries how agencies would
carry it out and what the effect would be.

"Anyone we arrest," Sheriff Crowder said last week, "if they aren't here
legally, we already take them to (U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement.)
Sometimes they take the person, and sometimes they don't."

Then there's that key part of Rep. Snyder's bill that mimics the Arizona law,
about allowing officers to question legal status if someone is stopped for
"reasonable suspicion." Sheriff Crowder said, "No one has been very clear on
'reasonable suspicion.' Do they look a little Mexican? I know Mexicans who are
blond and blue-eyed."

And if the feds didn't take someone who has been declared illegal, that person
would go into the Martin County Jail. "Now," Sheriff Crowder said, "we have to
feed them."

Chief Immler also points out that declaring someone illegal isn't quite as easy
as spotting a Mexican flag tattoo. "You have to interview family members, do a
fair amount of work." And if the person isn't causing serious trouble otherwise,
that means less work chasing after people who are causing serious trouble.

Like Chief Immler and Sheriff Crowder, Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw
sounds skeptical that candidates pushing the immigration law know how local
law-enforcement agencies work. "When we arrest someone," Sheriff Bradshaw said,
"we find out as much about them as we can. It doesn't matter if they're white,
black, Latino or Chinese. It's what we do."

Sheriff Bradshaw, a Democrat, also already works with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to get dangerous illegal immigrants out of the country. If deputies
arrest someone for armed robbery and he's here illegally, under the Secure
Communities program the person can be fast-tracked for deportation. In June,
every county in Florida became part of the program.

Ironically, those who want illegal immigrants out of the country -- no questions
asked, spare me the excuses, you broke the law -- might be happier with things
as they are. About the time Rep. Snyder was introducing his bill, the Benjamin
Cardozo School of Law was holding a news conference to allege, based on
documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, that under Secure
Communities illegal immigrants are being sent back to their homelands for
nothing more than a traffic violation.

The Legislature blundered by rushing a merit pay bill for teachers without
consulting the people whom the bill would affect. Florida politicians are
rushing the immigration bill the same way. Advice is something they need to have
time for.

Randy Schultz is the editor of editoral page of The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail
address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FROM THE EDITOR OF THE EDITORIAL PAGE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla.'s illegal immigrants leaving U.S. at fast pace ;
 The population falls 27% in state from '07 to '09, researchers say.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 710 words


Florida has seen the number of illegal immigrants in the state plummet by 27
percent in the past several years, as the state's economic troubles have
lingered, according to a study released Wednesday.

The Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center found that the number of illegal
immigrants in the nation fell by as much as 8 percent from 2007 to 2009.

The decline marks the first significant turnaround in the number of undocumented
people in the country in two decades, the researchers said.

"We've seen a reversal in what had been the long-term growth in the illegal
immigrant population," researcher Jeffrey Passel said.

The study arrives when immigration is a high-profile political issue. Arizona
has passed a law allowing local and state law enforcement officials to detain
individuals for immigration violations.

Similar legislation has been proposed in Florida and other states.

The Obama administration is challenging the new Arizona law, insisting that
responsibility for enforcement of immigration laws belongs exclusively to the
federal government.

An estimated 11 million illegal immigrants live in the United States. Possibly
because of tighter enforcement measures and economic circumstances driving some
immigrants back home, the total population is down from its estimated 2007 peak
of 12 million.

"Particularly along the southern border, enforcement has ramped up
considerably," Passel said. "It's harder and more dangerous for immigrants to
cross into the country."

From 2007 to 2009, an estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants sneaked into the
United States annually. This marks a reduction over the period from 2005 to
2007, when an estimated 550,000 illegal immigrants entered annually, the report
states.

Illegal immigrants remain concentrated in a relatively few states. An estimated
2.6 million live in California, 1.6 million live in Texas and 675,000 live in
Florida.

California's illegal immigrant population is down an estimated 3 percent from
2005, while Florida's fell a far more dramatic 27 percent, according to the
study. In Texas, the illegal immigrant population increased slightly.

The researchers caution that their findings, which are based on sampling, are
subject to a margin of error, and warned of the inherent uncertainties in
tracking an illegal population. Consequently, the overall illegal immigrant
population estimates are described as "not conclusive."

During the past two years, some social service organizations in South Florida
that deal with illegal immigrants have noted a decrease in clients because of
the decline in employment opportunities.

Florida employers who traditionally hire undocumented workers -- such as some
construction firms and restaurants -- have been hit hard by the recession.

And undocumented workers in South Florida themselves say there are fewer day
laborers to be found at street corners where such workers usually congregate.

But Maria Vega, a social worker at the Guadalupe Social Services Center in the
farm town of Immokalee, says she has not seen as sharp a drop as reported in the
study.

"I go over to the worker camps and I see some empty trailers," she said, "but I
think most of those people are maybe up North, still in the country and are
coming back.

"With all the violence down in Mexico, I don't think they want to go back down
there," she said referring to the increased warring among Mexican drug gangs and
between those gangs and government authorities.

Attorney Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth
said he had some doubts about the figures for Florida.

"I don't have people coming in here and telling me 'All my buddies have gone
back,'" he said.

Parts of the 37-page report track some other studies, including a Department of
Homeland Security assessment that the number of illegal immigrants fell from
11.8 million in 2007 to 10.8 million in 2009. The researchers used different
Census Bureau data for their respective studies.

"Our borders are just too vast for us to be able to solve the problem only with
fences and border patrols," President Obama said in July, adding that "stopping
illegal immigration must go hand in hand with reforming our creaky system of
legal immigration."

The Washington Post contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE The 2009 snapshot IN THE UNITED STATES 11.1 million
in 2009, down from 11.6 million in 2008 Percentage of U.S. population: 3.7%
Percentage of U.S. workforce: 5.1% BY STATE Unauthorized immigrant population:
1. California, 2.6 million; 2. Texas, 1.6 million; 3. Florida, 675,000 Biggest
percentage: 1. California, 6.9%; 13. Florida, 3.7% Most in workforce: 1. Nevada,
9.4%; 12. Florida, 5.8% Biggest drop from 2008 to 2009: 1. Florida from 1.05
million to 675,000; 2. New York from 800,000 to 650,000 SHIFTS OVER TIME 1990:
80% of unauthorized immigrants in U.S. live in California, Texas, Florida, New
York, Illinois and New Jersey. 2009: 59% live in those states. NEW DESTINATIONS
1990: 4% of unauthorized immigrants in U.S. live in Georgia, Arizona and North
Carolina. 2009: 10% live in those three states. Source: Pew Hispanic Center

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Florida immigration chief says felons are top priority ;
 Seizing killers, rapists a safety priority

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: PLANTATION


Marc Jeffrey Moore is accustomed to working in hot spots. He was once a Border
Patrol agent on the long, sweltering boundary between the U.S. and Mexico.

Now, after rising through the ranks, first in Texas and then in Washington, he
has been named regional field director for Florida, in charge of apprehensions
and removals of illegal immigrants for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

That puts him in charge of 585 officers and special agents and more than 500
other contract employees in Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. He
oversees seven detention facilities and 1,900 "detention beds."

Moore, a 49-year-old father of five, arrives in an election year in which
immigration is a hot-button issue marked by emotional debate. Florida is home to
hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants, many of whom work in key state
industries such as agriculture, construction and hospitality.

Moore says neither he nor his officers make policy; they simply carry it out.
But they are increasingly busy doing so.

Although most people detained and deported by ICE are undocumented workers
without serious criminal records, the agency's emphasis is changing, Moore said.
In an Aug. 20 memo, John Morton, national ICE director, affirmed that the agency
is putting a priority on the capture of undocumented immigrants convicted of
crimes.

"In fiscal year 2008-2009, we arrested and removed 136,000 convicted criminal
aliens," Moore said of ICE officers nationwide. "This year, we have one month
left in the fiscal year and we're at 170,000."

More than 4,000 of those were captured in Florida.

The term "convicted criminal alien" is key for Moore. He emphasizes that ICE
officers under his command do not conduct "sweeps," casting nets and picking up
anyone in a specific locale solely because they are in the country illegally.

Violent gangs a priority

ICE places a priority on pursuing illegal immigrants guilty of violent crimes:
homicide, kidnapping, rape and other sex offenses, and serious drug crimes.
Those "Level I" criminals can include members of violent gangs.

Next the agency moves to "Level II" offenses, including burglary, low-level drug
offenses or people guilty of repeated misdemeanors. Some of those criminals may
have been deported previously.

"The largest impact ICE can have on national security and public safety is to
ensure that those convicted criminal aliens do not return back to the streets of
our communities," Moore said.

To find those individuals, he said, ICE officers use "intelligence-driven
analysis and the development of leads about where they might be residing, where
they might be working," not sweeps. "In a world with limited resources, we want
to be smart, effective and we want to be responsible in how we apply those
resources to make our streets safe."

Moore said ICE has improved its deportation numbers by including local and state
police authorities in immigration enforcement, which has become controversial.

The 287(g) program includes training for local officers who work in jails and
authorizes them to investigate the immigration status of people incarcerated,
identify those in the country illegally and detain them for possible removal by
ICE.

That program, which is active in Collier and Duval counties, has come under
attack by immigrant rights activists, who say it fosters racial profiling by
local law enforcement.

A report issued this year by the Office of the Inspector General of the
Department of Homeland Security, which oversees ICE, also criticized 287(g). The
program is supposed to target serious criminals, the report said, but fewer than
10 percent of those detained through 287(g) fell into that category.

ICE spokeswoman Nicole Navas said that even before the report was issued, the
agency had changed the 287(g) program to respond to criticism. New guidelines
emphasize the need to target offenders who are "a threat to public safety" and
tighten ICE oversight of local law enforcement, she said.

Moore also praised the Secure Communities program, which operates in all 67
Florida counties and allows local officials to tap into Department of Homeland
Security and FBI fingerprint databases to identify possible criminal aliens.
Because many illegal immigrants use assumed names, local law enforcement
agencies often have no way of knowing their real identities or the possible
criminal records of people held in their jails.

"It's been tremendous in terms of ease ... and the increased number of convicted
criminal aliens that we are able to identify," Moore said.

But that program also has come under attack for leading to the detention of many
illegal immigrants not guilty of serious crimes and clogging the immigration
courts.

Rights advocates object

Immigrant rights activists say some counties, including St. Lucie, Miami-Dade
and Hillsborough, use Secure Communities technology to detain immigrants
convicted of no crimes or low-level offenses, including misdemeanors.

The Center for Constitutional Rights, based in Washington, said the program
"serves as a smokescreen for racial profiling."

"ICE's own records show that the vast majority of people deported due to (Secure
Communities) are not criminals or were picked up for lower-level offenses," the
organization said.

ICE disputes those claims.

"Racial profiling is simply not something that will be tolerated, and any
indication of racial profiling will be treated with the utmost scrutiny and
fully investigated," Navas said. "If any proof of racial profiling is uncovered,
that specific officer or department could have their agreement rescinded."

The 287(g) training includes "course work on multicultural communication and the
avoidance of racial profiling," Navas said.

Criminal deportees rising

In the Florida region, most of the people who were deported or who left
voluntarily after being detained through Secure Communities -- 1,881 of 3,520 --
had been convicted of Level I or Level II crimes, according to agency records.

ICE officials also say the percentage of people deported from the Florida sector
who are convicted criminals has risen sharply in recent years, from about 22
percent in 2008 to 36 percent in 2010.

The crackdown on serious criminals, Moore said, doesn't mean that others in the
country illegally who are encountered by ICE officers will be ignored.

"We didn't say we were going to ignore any particular population," he said. "We
want to make sure that the immigration system has integrity, that we don't turn
our heads away from people gaming the system, who came in here fraudulently. We
want to send a strong message that we are not going to allow that. ...

"Nobody gets a free pass."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Candidates differ on immigration issue ;
 In a debate, Meek and Crist push a path to citizenshipfor illegal immigrants
while Rubio touts secure borders.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT and ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Florida's three major U.S. Senate candidates met for the first time and found
little common ground in a one-hour debate taped Friday at Spanish-language
Univision and aired later that night.

Republican Marco Rubio and Democrat Kendrick Meek slammed
Republican-turned-independent rival Charlie Crist as an opportunist throughout
the fast-moving debate while Crist accused his partisan rivals of being beholden
to "party bosses."

With a considerable portion focusing on immigration and matters of concern to
Hispanics, Cuban-American Rubio staked out more conservative positions on those
issues than Meek and Crist.

Rubio broke with his rivals by supporting English as the official language of
the U.S. and opposing a Democratic bill that would let students who are
illegally in the country become citizens if they enlist in the military or
attend college.

Crist and Meek voiced support for a "path to citizenship" for the estimated 11
million or more people in the country illegally, but Rubio said the U.S. must
first secure its borders and beef up employment verification before attempting
"modernization" of its immigration laws.

Crist and Meek criticized Arizona's controversial crackdown on illegal
immigrants. Rubio said the law -- which he criticized before it was amended by
the Arizona Legislature -- isn't right for the rest of the U.S., but he said
Arizona faced unique problems because of its border with Mexico.

Rubio, Florida House speaker from 2006 to 2008, characterized himself throughout
the debate as the only candidate who would "stand up" to the Democratic agenda
in Washington.

He said the $787 billion stimulus bill that U.S. Rep. Meek, of Miami, voted for
and that Gov. Crist embraced had been an "absolute disaster."

Meek said the stimulus prevented the U.S. from slipping into a depression. Crist
said the stimulus saved 80,000 public-sector jobs in Florida, including 20,000
in education.

Meek characterized himself as the only champion of the middle class, calling
Rubio and former Republican Crist "my two lifelong conservative Republican
friends" and noting their support for extending all the Bush tax cuts. Meek
supports extending the tax cuts for everyone except the wealthy.

Meek supported the Democratic health care bill, which Rubio and Crist say they
would have voted against.

Crist, who quit the GOP in April when he fell behind Rubio in the Republican
Senate primary, highlighted his new nonpartisan status as an alternative to the
"broken" politics in Washington.

"I'm running against two fine people, but they are the political nominees of
their respective parties. This is an opportunity to change all of that, to make
a true difference, to have a better way," Crist said.

Crist said he was free to embrace the best ideas from both parties and cited
Democratic clean-energy initiatives and Republican tax cuts as examples.

Meek, in a nod to the Spanish-speaking audience, called Crist a postalita -- a
Spanish term to describe someone who flip-flops on issues depending on the
circumstances.

Crist spoke a single sentence in Spanish, telling the audience he had studied
the language in school. Rubio, who has given large portions of speeches in
Spanish on the campaign trail, did not deliver any of his comments in Spanish
during the debate.

In the general election campaign so far, Crist and Meek have fought to win
Democratic voters. But it was Rubio who offered the sharpest criticism of the
governor.

"You only changed parties and did this independent thing when you couldn't win
the Republican primary," Rubio said. "And now you wake up every day and you try
to figure out what can you say or do to take more votes away from Congressman
Meek so more Democrats will vote for you. But everybody sees it for what it is,
everybody gets it. So I think we owe voters more respect than that."

The debate aired at 11 p.m. on Univision stations with the candidates' answers
dubbed in Spanish and subtitles in English. After airing on television, it was
made available online at univision23.com.

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Inside  * Values Voters Summit in D.C. spotlights GOP's rising stars.4A
ZForum Club won't host candidatesat Kravis. 1B Online ZGet stories,
endorsements, candidate profiles, questionnaires, quotes and more.
PalmBeachPost. com/go/election

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate vote blocks path to legal status ;
 Illegal immigrants who go to college or join the military would have benefited.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 695 words


For thousands of foreign-born Floridians, the dream was postponed again Tuesday.

The Dream Act, which would allow certain undocumented immigrants ages 16 to 35
to earn legal status by completing two years of college or serving in the
military, was shot down in the U.S. Senate.

First introduced in 2001, the bill has failed to gain passage several times.
This time, it was introduced in an election year marked by a highly emotional
debate over immigration.

A procedural vote Tuesday that would have allowed the legislation to reach the
Senate floor as part of a military authorization bill failed to get the
necessary 60 votes. The final tally was 56-43, with no Republican senator voting
in favor.

Also attached to the authorization bill --and voted down -- was a provision to
repeal the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy, which would have allowed
gays and lesbians to serve openly in the military.

Senate Republicans objected to both the Dream Act and "don't ask" amendments
being added to the larger military bill, calling it chicanery by the Democrats.
In particular, they accused Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., who is in
a tight race for reelection, of pushing the Dream Act to gain Latino votes in
his state.

Reid said both provisions were added because they would have allowed qualified
people to enter the military, regardless of sexual orientation or national
origin.

The Dream Act has the support of the U.S. military, which sees it as a way to
enlarge its pool of recruits, and many leaders in higher education. But critics
consider it a form of amnesty for illegal immigrants.

"We're going to keep on fighting," said Manuel Guerra, 26, of Indiantown, a
native of Mexico who would have benefited from the Dream Act and went to
Washington for the vote.

Tim McClellan, a South Florida spokesman for the tea party, was pleased with the
outcome.

"We have to take care of our own citizens before we take care of the children of
illegal aliens," he said. "I think that is what most people in this country feel
--not just tea party people."

The Dream Act applies to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S.
before age 16, have lived here at least five years and have earned a high school
diploma or GED.

By completing two years of college or military service, they would be able to
apply for permanent residence and eventually citizenship.

According to supporters of the legislation, 65,000 undocumented immigrants
graduate from high school every year. Many face problems continuing their
education or entering the military because they were brought to the U.S. at an
early age, usually by their parents, and never became legal.

Supporters estimate that about 800,000 people would benefit from the
legislation. By allowing the "Dreamers" to attend college, they say, those
immigrants will contribute more to the economy.

"And think what this means to the military," said Mark Boykin, pastor of the
Church of All Nations in Boca Raton, who said he has more than 20 congregants
who would benefit from the Dream Act.

"How many of those young people would have gone into the armed services?"

Boykin, who is Pentecostal, spoke at a city hall rally in West Palm Beach
shortly before the vote was taken. He called himself a "moderate Republican" and
said he was disappointed with his party.

"Disappointed and dismayed," he said. "This was a perfect opportunity to reach
out to the Latino vote. The Republicans missed an opportunity."

Luis, 26, from Peru, and M.C., 18, from Argentina, are students at Palm Beach
State College who would benefit from the Dream Act. They worked to get it passed
and were disappointed by the vote.

Both students, who did not want their last names used, said they hoped the Dream
Act would be taken up again in the Senate during the lame-duck session following
the November elections, apart from the military appropriations bill.

"What I understand is that Sen. LeMieux has said he would be willing to vote for
it as a stand-alone bill and maybe it can pass that way," Luis said.

"Our hard work is going to count for something this year, maybe in the lame-duck
session," M.C. said. "At least I hope it does."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION REFORM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

5 undocumented immigrants found walking on Palm Beach

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Five undocumented immigrants were taken into custody after police found them
walking down a road Sunday morning in Palm Beach, police said.

The five men were wet and barefoot when they were stopped by police walking near
North County Road and Atlantic Avenue shortly after 6 a.m., said Palm Beach
Police Capt. Frank Hess.

Police believe three of them are from Turkey and the other two from the Bahamas,
Hess said.

U.S. Border Patrol agents were called in and took custody of all five men.

One of them was also found to be in possession of a small amount of marijuana,
Hess said.

Officers searched the island and found a boat registered in the Bahamas that
police believe the men abandoned after coming ashore in the 1400 block of Ocean
Boulevard near the Lake Worth Inlet, Hess said.

~ jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ CALLED IT RIGHT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 440 words


Mel Martinez has made the right decision for himself and Florida by not running
for a second term in the Senate.

In late 2006, Sen. Martinez foolishly took the side job of Republican National
Committee chairman. Sitting politicians avoid the role, given the obvious issue
of divided loyalty. For Sen. Martinez, party, not the state, became his
priority.

In 2007, 29 of 49 Senate Republicans voted to expand the federal-state health
insurance program for children. Expansion would have helped many Floridians. But
President Bush and the RNC opposed the expansion; Sen. Martinez voted against
it. Because Sen. Martinez regularly had to issue partisan talking points, his
chairmanship did him no good with majority Democrats and thus did no good for
Florida.

Ironically, the GOP tapped Sen. Martinez in hopes of attracting Hispanic voters.
And in 2007, when the Senate debated a wide-ranging, bipartisan immigration
reform bill, Sen. Martinez was one of the lawmakers trying to craft a plan that
not only would secure the borders but deal with the millions of illegal
immigrants already here. Immigration reform matters a lot to Florida, especially
the agriculture industry, because it can ensure a supply of workers for jobs
that Americans won't take.

But opposition from Republicans killed the bill. According to exit polls, the
backlash hurt the GOP in last month's election. So Sen. Martinez wasn't able to
help his party any more than he was able to help the state. In October 2007, he
resigned as RNC chairman.

And who can blame Sen. Martinez for not running? Since the Democrats will have
at least 58 seats next year, he likely would remain in the minority for some
time. At 62, he hasn't had time to reach a leadership position within the GOP.
His approval ratings are tepid. Since the Democrats had targeted his seat, he
would have faced two years of heavy fund-raising and campaigning for a job he
wasn't sure he wanted.

Sen. Martinez's announcement Tuesday will start the rush toward a rare open
Senate seat. Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, former Florida House
Speaker Marco Rubio and U.S. Rep. Adam Putnam of Bartow are among the likely
Republican candidates. Possible Democratic candidates are Florida Chief
Financial Officer Alex Sink and U.S. Reps. Ron Klein of Boca Raton and Kendrick
Meek of Miami.

As for Sen. Martinez, he will leave office having shown what a Cuban immigrant
who arrived as a boy can accomplish. He became a respected lawyer, chief
executive of Orange County, secretary of housing and urban development and,
finally, a senator. And unlike so many self-absorbed politicians, he knew when
it was time to go.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIAMI NONPROFIT JOINS EFFORT TO MAKE DEPORTATIONS HARDER

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A legal services center that represents many immigrants throughout South Florida
has entered a U.S. Supreme Court case on behalf of a Baltimore man who wants to
make it harder for immigration officials to deport some individuals seeking
political asylum.

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, a Miami nonprofit, has prepared a "friend
of the court" brief on behalf of Jean Marc Nken, who is battling deportation to
Camaroon. His case is scheduled to go before the Supreme Court on Jan. 21.

That case could result in national standards for the treatment of individuals
who have been denied asylum by regional immigration courts, but who have
appealed to U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeal.

"These can be questions of life and death," said attorney Tania Galloni of the
advocacy center.

Miami immigration judges deny more political asylum cases than any of the 54
immigration courts in the nation. An applicant can appeal to the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington, which rejects the vast majority of petitions
it reviews.

The board then issues a deportation order. But an asylum applicant can then
petition the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. Traditionally, if judges
there considered the case worthy of review they issued a stay of deportation
allowing the applicant to remain in the United States while the case was
decided.

But in 2002 those judges began to deny stays of deportation even in cases they
considered worthy of review. The judges argued that applicants for asylum could
continue their cases from outside the U.S.

The 11th Circuit was the first circuit to take that step. All other circuits
continued to allow applicants to remain in the country. But immigration courts
in the 4th Circuit -- which serves Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia and the
Carolinas -- recently have attempted to adopt the same standard as courts in the
11th Circuit.

In the case accepted by the Supreme Court, Nken, originally from the African
nation of Cameroon, claims he is a known opponent of the dictatorial government
of Cameroon and faces torture and possible death if he is forced to return
there.

"They say a person like him can fight his asylum case from there if he is
deported," said Lindsay Harrison, a Washington attorney representing Nken, "but
he can't win his case if he's dead."

In Nken's case, Harrison is asking that stays of deportation be given to those
persons whose petitions for review have been accepted.

It is not uncommon for federal appeals courts to reverse decisions made by
immigration judges. Some appeals judges have been highly critical of the work of
immigration courts, where judges often have backlogs of hundreds of cases and
work is often done at breakneck speed.

Galloni says forcing an applicant to fight his or her case from outside the
country makes it much more difficult for them. "And then if they win, it can be
really difficult to get back into the United States," she said.

Immigrant advocates say people in danger of serious human rights abuses,
including torture, and even death, have been ordered deported.

"We have had cases of Chinese women who were facing forced abortion and
sterilization if made to go back to China and also individuals from Colombia who
faced assassination at the hands of ... guerrillas," Galloni said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 2, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THIS ILLEGAL SHOULD BE LEGAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 571 words


Immigration law might not let Fredy Avellaneda stay in the United States. A
judge will determine that. But immigration law ought to give people like him a
chance to stay.

As John Lantigua reported last week in The Post, Mr. Avellaneda was detained
July 16 by Customs and Border Protection agents who stopped the van in which he
was riding to work. Mr. Avellaneda, 27, came to this country illegally with his
parents when he was 10. He graduated from Pahokee High School and has worked in
construction, agriculture and landscaping. According to his mother, his status
kept him from attending college. He has not been in trouble with police.

Despite loud demands, the country can't deport all illegal immigrants. Even if
physically possible, it would cost too much and require unprecedented police and
judicial resources. Immigration reform, though, could provide a path for those
who have shown that they can be good citizens to become legal citizens.

Mr. Avellaneda was a child when he arrived and did not choose to come to this
country illegally. The Rev. John Mericantante, pastor of St. Mary's Catholic
Church in Pahokee, has known Mr. Avellaneda since he was a boy and says that he
"speaks English better than he speaks Spanish." In essence, Mr. Avellaneda has
grown up as an American.

Susana Barciela, policy director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, says
that cases such as Mr. Avellaneda's -- and there are tens of thousands of them
-- argue for the Dream Act, proposed legislation that would provide a path to
legalization by allowing them to attend college or serve in the military.

A poster child for the Dream Act, Ms. Barciela said, is Juan Gomez, who came to
Florida illegally with his family when he was 2. Though his parents and
grandmother were deported after 17 years, Mr. Gomez had done so well in school
and in life that he was allowed to enroll at Georgetown University. But that
resulted from a private bill supported by Miami-area lawmakers.

Mr. Avellaneda was living in Stuart. U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta,
represents the area. A spokesman said that Rep. Rooney is not fully familiar
with the Avellaneda case and that while "he understands the family's concerns,"
private bills to aid illegal immigrants are rare and Congress should "address
immigration as a whole." Rep. Rooney opposes the Dream Act or "any type of
reform that includes amnesty." He supports "a viable guest-worker program."

Ms. Barciela, whose organization does not represent Mr. Avellaneda, said that
when college is not an option, "the ideal would be to provide a path to earn
legalization ... for people who are really productive." Reform, she said, might
require applicants to pay a fine, pay any back taxes owed, learn English and
wait a specified number of years.

Father Mericantante expects that Mr. Avellaneda, who is being held at the
Broward Transitional Center in Pompano Beach, will have an immigration hearing
soon. He said perhaps the fact that he has brothers who were born in this
country, and thus are citizens, will help his case.

Immigration chaos encourages secrecy that weakens U.S. security, encourages
exploitation of illegal immigrants and, as Mr. Avellenada's case shows, stunts
the potential of people who have shown they could become contributing citizens.
People with Mr. Avellaneda's background should be rewarded, not deported.

The government should find ways to keep people like him, not deport them.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  TALK BACK!http://blogs.PalmBeachPost.com/opin ionzone Should Fredy
Avellaneda be allowed to stay in the United States?

GRAPHIC:  REX BABIN/Sacramento Bee

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE WRONG ISSUE TO DELAY ;
 Immigration deserves more than 40 words.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 641 words


Last week's State of the Union address leaves little hope that the Obama
administration will try to push a comprehensive immigration reform plan through
Congress anytime soon.

President Obama had only 38 words to say about immigration in a 6,200-word
speech, and those words came almost as an afterthought in the last few minutes:
"And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system, to
secure our borders, and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone who plays by
the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation."

It would be hard to find anyone in Washington -- or Florida and Arizona, for
that matter -- who disagrees with a statement as perfunctory and vacuous as
that. The president said last year that he was delaying immigration because he
had a "full plate" of legislative issues. Now, Mr. Obama may move immigration
from the back burner to the pantry for another year, if it stays in the kitchen
at all.

It's an unfortunate turn, because fixing immigration -- or even coming close --
would have a direct effect on the other major problems the president wants to
take on: the economy, unemployment, health care, national security, education,
foreign trade, even help for Haiti. A new study suggests untapped economic
potential in the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already living here.

Researchers at UCLA found that comprehensive reform could add as much as $1.5
trillion to the U.S. gross domestic product over 10 years. The study --
sponsored by the Immigration Policy Center and the Center for American Progress,
which tend to favor reform -- was based on surveys after federal legislation in
1986 that legalized about 3million illegal workers. Several proposals in
Congress call for allowing illegal immigrants a path toward permanent residency
and citizenship if they pass background checks, learn English and pay fees.

Based on the experiences of 24 years ago, researchers concluded that immigrant
workers who gain legal status go on to function at higher levels in the economy
and in American society. They move on to better-paying jobs, and pay more taxes.
They become more educated, and pay more taxes. They consume more, so they spend
more, and pay more taxes.

The research seems to validate trickle-up economics. When you improve the wages
and standard of living for the lowest segment in the U.S. economy, the results
ripple upward and lift the middle and upper classes. Native workers do better
when foreign workers do better.

Trying to build a strong, enduring economy on an unstable underclass of illegal
workers is like building a house on a cheap and shifting foundation. The study
also helps to dispel the too-pervasive notion that what goes on at the bottom of
the jobs ladder really doesn't matter to the upper rungs. But it does. For
prosperity to last, it has to be a shared experience.

The UCLA researchers also considered a hypothetical outcome for U.S. immigration
reform. What if it were possible to deport all illegal immigrants workers? What
would happen then?

The study found that mass deportation would reduce the national GDP by $2.6
trillion over 10 years. Even during a recession, American workers could not plug
the hole the immigrants would leave.

President Obama did make another reference to immigrants in his speech: "In the
end, it's our ideals, our values that built America, values that allowed us to
forge a nation made up of immigrants from every corner of the globe, values that
drive our citizens still."

The UCLA study is making the same point. For America to work at its best and to
endure, all of its people have to share the same values and ideals. That can't
happen when millions of residents are excluded from participating in all the
country has to offer.

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CANDIDATES CLASH ON TERROR TRIALS, TAXES, IMMIGRATION ;
 Lynch and McCormick disagree with Deutch, who supports civilian trials insome
cases.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 467 words


Three congressional candidates vying to replace Robert Wexler differed on
terrorism trials, tax cuts and immigration reform during a debate Tuesday west
of Boca Raton.

The West Boca Chamber of Commerce breakfast at Boca Lago Country Club was the
first joint appearance by Democrat Ted Deutch, Republican Ed Lynch and no-party
candidate Jim McCormick. The three are running in an April 13 special election
to replace Wexler, who stepped down last month to head a Middle East think tank.

McCormick, who was not originally invited, was added after he sent organizers an
e-mail Monday night suggesting he might take legal action if he was excluded.

Deutch said accused 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed should not be tried
in New York City, as originally proposed by the Obama administration. But Deutch
said he supports trying some terrorism suspects in civilian courts on American
soil and noted that several high-profile terrorists were convicted in federal
court during the Bush administration.

Lynch and McCormick opposed civilian trials.

"Terrorists on American soil are not entitled to the constitutional rights that
are reserved for the citizens of the United States," said Lynch, who argued that
America's enemies can "use our system against us" by gaining sensitive
information when cases are tried in federal court.

McCormick called it "silly" not to continue using the U.S. Navy base in
Guantanamo Bay for military tribunals.

"I don't want to see these people lawyered up. I think that's a terrible idea,"
McCormick said. "These people are not American citizens. They don't deserve our
rights."

All three said they favor some level of tax incentives -- but varied on how much
-- to help businesses create jobs.

Lynch called for eliminating corporate taxes for two years and capital gains
taxes for four years and for a moratorium on Social Security payroll taxes paid
by employers and employees.

Deutch called for smaller, more targeted measures, including reduced capital
gains taxes for businesses that invest in new equipment and tax breaks for
companies that hire new employees. He called for eliminating tax incentives that
encourage businesses to send jobs out of the country.

McCormick called for unspecified tax incentives to help businesses.

All three said they support strengthening U.S. border security to address
illegal immigration. Lynch and McCormick took a harder line than Deutch on
enforcing existing immigration laws.

Lynch said immigration laws should be enforced against those who entered the
U.S. illegally "even if they're good the rest of the time."

Deutch said it's "just not realistic" to deport millions of illegal immigrants.
He said the nation should have a process to let those who have been productive
and paid taxes "get in line for citizenship."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2010U.S. House District 19

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONVEYOR BELT TO DEPORTATION ;
 Asylum cases don't get attention they deserve.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 642 words


The American Bar Association spent years studying and debating how to fix the
nation's immigration court system, and this month finally came up with a
recommendation: Don't bother.

The lawyers group concluded that the courts are so overburdened and
fundamentally flawed that it would be better to scrap everything and start over.
At its semiannual meeting in Orlando, the ABA voted to endorse creation of a
separate immigration court system that operates within the executive branch but
independently from the Department of Justice.

The ABA found compelling evidence for change in a 500-page report on the courts
that the association's immigration commission ordered 18 months ago.

It concluded that the system is "choked by an exploding caseload and an
exponential increase in outside pressures," and that too often fairness becomes
a casualty in deciding whether to deport noncitizens. Last year, 231 immigration
judges heard more than 300,000 cases, an average of more than 1,200 per judge.
The report says another 100 judges need to be hired "as soon as possible" just
to keep the system from imploding.

"The backlog has gotten progressively worse in the last decade as enforcement
has intensified," says Marisol Zequeira, a Stuart immigration lawyer. "All
judges are overworked. Most of them genuinely want to consider each case
carefully and thoughtfully but can't because they just don't have the time to do
it."

Because of time pressures and the huge backlog, judges often issue oral
decisions that "are not fully researched or based in law or fact," according to
the report. More than half of the respondents in removal proceedings and 84
percent of detained respondents do not have legal counsel.

The report said "significant disparities in rates of favorable decisions
indicate that respondents' chances of success are highly dependent upon the
judges before whom they appear rather than the merits of their case."

In other words, if you draw the wrong judge, you're gone. The attorney general
is the judges' boss, so they feel pressure to follow the administration's
political ideology. "How can you have an unbiased court when it sits in the
law-enforcement arm of government?" Ms. Zequeira says. "Rulings are compromised
by the appearance of influence, if not the reality of it."

Many of these cases have life-and-death consequences. They aren't the
straightforward examples of the migrant worker who crosses the Mexican border,
gets caught and then gets deported. Many immigrants have complicated stories
that are not quickly unraveled and face persecution if they go back to their
homelands. Yet, too often the system throws them onto the conveyor belt and
asylum cases don't get the careful attention they deserve.

Immigration politics trumps immigration justice too many times. The exponential
growth in caseloads corresponds to the growing intensity of the immigration
debate in Washington and across the country. As immigration became a key issue
leading up to the 2008 election, the Bush administration cracked down on illegal
immigrants and filled the dockets as well as the detention cells.

Attorneys complain that the government doesn't show enough prosecutorial
discretion. Instead of backing off on weak cases, the government is politically
motivated to push them all the way through a system that already has more than
it can handle.

Department of Homeland Security officials detained close to 380,000 immigrants
in 2008 and deported more than 358,000 of them, or about 94 percent.
Deportations have doubled since 2001, and the system has been unable to keep up.

"At stake here is the credibility of the courts," Ms. Zequeira says. "If they
don't have independence and neutrality, then there's no reason to believe they
can deliver justice."

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AWFUL LAW, AWFUL BIG FAVOR

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 642 words


The Arizona legislature did the country a huge favor last month when it allowed
police to challenge people's immigration status and detain anyone who can't
produce the paperwork to document it.

Until the Arizona law, amended once already because of criticism about racial
profiling, we were stuck in an ideological impasse over how to reform a system
that nearly everyone believes is hopelessly broken. Like many contentious
debates, people on both sides agree on more than they realize. As the arguing
drags on, though, they tend to lose track of what the real issues are and what
the fight is really about.

With immigration reform, the exchange of ideas and solutions ended long ago when
both factions claimed the moral high ground and let demagogues do their shouting
for them. Lost in the crossfire was what most Americans share. There's a
startling amount of agreement on how the country needs to fix immigration.

Who doesn't believe that the borders must be secure, and that the federal
government is responsible for securing them? Who doesn't want immigration to be
legal, orderly, fair -- and reasonable in numbers? Who doesn't believe that
immigrants should abide by the law and work to fit in to American society? Only
extremists deny immigration's essential role in building the country or its
essential role in sustaining it.

Is anyone arguing that we're not a nation of immigrants? Is anyone arguing that
we should become a nation of illegal immigrants?

The Arizona law brings to the debate a moment of clarity. It refocuses all the
scattered arguments and disparate viewpoints into a single piece of imagery that
is universally recognizable.

The law may go down in history for doing to immigration reform what the
Selma-to-Montgomery march did for the civil rights movement. A half-century ago,
most Americans had no idea what to do about integration or segregation, let
alone anything as complicated as race relations. But they did know that what
they saw in the images from Selma was both immoral and patently un-American.
Something had to be done to keep the country from destroying itself.

The Arizona law conjures mental pictures that lead to the same places. The idea
of police confronting citizens and immigrants, and telling them to "show me your
papers" or face detainment, belongs in World War II movies and authoritarian
states, not in the United States of America.

The law goes to an extreme that reflects the desperation and frustration of
local and state governments that suffer daily because of Washington's abdication
of responsibility. When measures get extreme enough and clear enough, all the
posturing, political nuances and obfuscation go out the window. You pick one
side or another, and people understand where you stand.

The Arizona law is the new euphemism for immigration positioning. You're either
for it or against it, and needn't explain much else. It is the line that
separates reformers and extremists, and you can't stand with one foot on each
side.

Admittedly, Marco Rubio has tried. The former Florida House speaker and
Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate came out against the law, then
supported it after Arizona lawmakers made that insignificant change. But Mr.
Rubio and other would-be hedgers can't tweak their way out of the "your papers,
please" imagery that the law inspires, not just among immigrants or Hispanics
but among most Americans who understand now that their rights could become
casualties of a debate that goes on far too long.

President Obama has moved immigration reform ahead of energy and climate change.
He promises action in Congress this year. That agenda shift wouldn't have
happened without the Arizona law and its moment of clarity about what the
consequences of doing nothing really are.

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MEN IN CAPS ARE PROBABLY BANK ROBBERS

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 494 words


If you're a fan of Arizona's new immigration law, you're going to love my idea.

We should do the same thing in Florida -- but not with immigration. C'mon,
somebody's got to pick all these fruits and vegetables.

I'm talking about going foamy in the mouth, Arizona-style, over bank robbery.

Yes, that's right. Rip bank robbery away from federal control, and empower local
cops to start rounding up people who exude a "reasonable suspicion" of being a
bank robber.

I came to this conclusion after looking at the recently released bank robbery
data compiled by the FBI for the last calendar year. The bureau can use some
help.

It shows that bank robbery is the biggest problem in the South, and among
Southern states only Georgia has more bank robberies than Florida. Let's just
call bank robbery a statewide crisis.

Hey, if the U.S. Constitution can be trampled to catch people trying to do an
honest day's work, it can certainly be trampled to catch thieves.

If only all cases were this easy

The FBI's statistics show that in the nation's nearly 6,000 bank robberies last
year, the loot was recovered in only 22 percent of the cases, and more than half
of the robbers had yet to be identified.

This is a surprisingly low number, considering just how under-performing some
bank robbers are.

Take, for example, Floyd Francis, 23, who got caught trying to rob a bank last
month in Palm Bay.

While in line for the teller, Francis wore a Walmart plastic bag as a hat. The
bag would later double as his loot bag once he got to the teller and handed her
a note, which read, "put di money innah di bag."

The note's biggest flaw, though, wasn't its spelling. It was its lack of
brevity. Francis' note went on to contain the superfluous advice to "always
smoke weed get high" and the damning inclusion of both his real name and his
MySpace address.

Clearly, this was not destined to be a long career. Not like Steven Gass, 55,
who is awaiting sentencing in Fort Lauderdale for his most recent string of bank
robberies, alleged to be total of 21 banks from Greenacres to Miami during the
past two years.

Put stereotyping to good use

To catch guys like Gass sooner, Florida needs to start profiling bank robber
behavior.

I'll admit, this is easier to do with illegal immigration inquisitions, when all
the local cops have to do is see brown skin to figure out a flimsy reason to
stop that person and ask for papers.

But the FBI statistics do provide some useful bank robber profiling information.

While bank robbers are racially diverse, most are men, and the most popular time
of the week to strike is between 3 and 6 p.m. on Fridays. Handing a note to the
teller is done 57 percent of the time.

There's no headgear information, but I'm guessing that ball caps are big, too.

Bigger than Walmart bags.

So as long as you aren't a man trying to do your banking on Friday afternoon in
your Yankees cap while holding a piece of paper, you have absolutely nothing to
worry about.

~ frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration battle fatigue ;
 Good idea takes hostile fire from both sides.

BYLINE: DAN MOFFETT

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 646 words


The debate over immigration reform has gone on so long and angered so many that
any new idea can draw criticism from both sides for no real reasons other than
battle fatigue and conditioned behavior. There is almost too much suspicion and
acrimony even to get a fair hearing anymore.

Last week, for example, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Florida
Department of Law Enforcement announced an expanded high-tech partnership that
will help get criminals off the streets and keep Floridians safe. Working
together, ICE and the FDLE will use biometric fingerprint databases from the FBI
and the Department of Homeland Security to cross-check the criminal records of
immigrants whom police arrest.

The idea, which ICE calls Secure Communities, is to identify the worst felons --
murderers, rapists, child abusers, drug dealers -- and ensure that they are
detained and deported. Too often, law enforcement officials have released
violent criminals because of incorrect identification or incomplete immigration
records. Jails and detention centers in all Florida counties can now access the
improved databases. The plan to share more information should make it harder for
criminals to beat the system.

"This initiative ensures that our local law enforcement partners know as much as
possible about the people in their custody," said Michael W. Meade, the ICE
field office director for Miami Enforcement and Removals Operations. "By using
sophisticated biometrics, this tool allows us to quickly and accurately identify
those criminal aliens who pose the greatest threat to our communities."

You would have thought that everyone would like this idea. Here were government
agencies cooperating and maximizing taxpayer dollars to keep the public safe.
Mr. Meade points out that Secure Communities already has removed more than 1,800
convicted immigrants from Florida and will do better with the expanded program.
You would think that only murderers, rapists and drug dealers would find reason
to criticize anything this reasonable.

But not so fast. Remember this is about immigration policy. Reason often doesn't
matter.

Advocates for immigrants assailed the expanded arrangement, saying that ICE will
use it as an excuse to overstep its powers and increase deportations, not of
hardened criminals, but of hard-working dishwashers, nannies and landscapers.
Until God runs ICE, you can't trust it, say the empathetic voices from the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

At the other end of the political spectrum, anti-immigrant activists decried the
idea as too little too late. If the federal government were doing its job and
securing the borders, illegal immigrant felons wouldn't even be here. Don't
spend money on databases; spend it on deportation and fences, say the shrill
voices from the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR).

Last week, President Obama gave his first major speech on immigration and said
he is determined to move ahead with comprehensive reform. He blamed reform
opponents in Congress, Republicans in particular, for succumbing to "pressures
of partisanship and election-year politics." He called on lawmakers to summon
their courage and fix the broken system.

The president is asking a whole lot more than a whole lot. With elections only
four months away, and after tough votes on health care, economic stimulus and
financial regulation, there is little stomach even among Democrats to take
another one for the White House and inflict more career damage.

No matter how many criminals ICE deports, it always will face charges from one
side of abusing its power and from the other side of acting too timidly. The
crossfire reaction to the Secure Communities program in Florida is a reminder of
how unsafe the political landscape has become.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Targeting the wrong immigrants ;
 ICE deporting people for minor offenses.

BYLINE: By CHERYL LITTLE

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 692 words


Immigration is a hot topic that provokes a lot of disagreement, even among
friends. Nonetheless, a few principles are fundamental: We are a nation of law
and of immigrants. Our immigration system is woefully out of whack. And until
this system is sensibly reformed, enforcing immigration law will remain a
Sisyphean job.

Reasonable people may disagree about what is "sensible reform" or how our
immigrations law should be enforced. But I take issue with Dan Moffett's July 6
column, "Immigration Battle Fatigue," which terribly misrepresents the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center's position on Immigration and Customs Enforcement, its
Secure Communities program and immigration in general. Mr. Moffett said the
center's position is that "Until God runs ICE, you can't trust it."

The center, a not-for-profit immigration law firm, has represented thousands of
clients who have been detained or placed in deportation proceedings. Unlike many
TV pundits, the center bases its recommendations for improving the immigration
system on our client's experiences and what we see in Florida communities. We
also appreciate that ICE officials have met with us and solicited our input.

Last year, the center welcomed ICE's reform plan by Dr. Dora Schriro, who headed
the ICE detention policy and planning office and provided recommendations for
creating a truly civil detention system. Now the center and other advocates are
working to ensure that the reality of ICE's reforms meets the aspirations.

This is why we have concerns about ICE's Secure Communities program. ICE claims,
as it has done for years, that it is targeting dangerous criminals, like
murderers and rapists. Yet the program screens the fingerprints of anyone
arrested by local police, not just those convicted of crimes. With such a wide
net, it's not surprising that 90 percent of the people flagged by Secure
Communities were not the "most dangerous criminal aliens,'' according to ICE's
own data in November. Another 5 percent of the "hits" were U.S. citizens, which
means that thousands of people risk being wrongly detained or even deported.

This may explain what the center is seeing in Florida detention centers: A flood
of detainees with minor offenses such as driving with an expired license,
improper car window tints and loitering. One detainee in Collier Country was
charged for taking coins from a fountain. These are not the national security
risks that the Department of Homeland Security should be targeting.

Nor does deporting such immigrants make our streets safer. On the contrary,
immigrant communities, like many in Florida, live in fear when local police
collaborate with ICE. Who will report a crime to police or agree to be a witness
when they or a relative risks being deported?

Given the lives affected, you would think ICE would release all the available
data on Secure Communities, including statistics and plans for the program.
Instead, advocates are having to sue to get what should be public information.
That's what the Center for Constitutional Rights did in May.

We applauded when President Obama recently reiterated his commitment to enacting
comprehensive immigration reforms, including a pathway for unauthorized
immigrants to earn legal status. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of immigrants who
pay taxes, have U.S. citizen relatives, contribute to their communities and have
lived here for years are being detained and deported by ICE. So why is ICE
spending billions of taxpayers' dollars to reel in the very people who would be
able to earn legal status under the comprehensive immigration reform that
President Obama rightly advocates?

If Secure Communities actually targeted the worst offenders and made us safe, as
ICE claims, we along with almost everyone else would support it. Yet that is not
the reality.

Mr. Moffett suggests in his column that "only murderers, rapists and drug
dealers would find reason to criticize" Secure Communities. If he were to see
the human faces we see in Florida's detention centers, he might change his mind.

Cheryl Little is executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.
Randy Schultz's column will resume on July 25.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds right to challenge Ariz. ;
 But they're shirking duty to enforce immigration policy.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 507 words


Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum and his GOP counterparts in a dozen other
states sued the federal government in March over a federal health care law they
said "represents an unprecedented encroachment on the sovereignty of the
states."

Yet somehow many of them don't see states encroaching on federal power if, as in
Arizona, they try to set immigration policy. Genuine constructionists would at
least admit states can't get away with that.

In seeking an injunction to stop Arizona from enforcing the law, the Justice
Department says, correctly, that Arizona has crossed a "constitutional line"
because "the power to regulate immigration is exclusively vested in the federal
government."

Mr. McCollum, who is running for governor, and Rick Scott, his Republican
primary opponent, both are crying foul. "The Obama administration wrongly chose
to subvert the will of the people of Arizona by legally challenging the
immigration law," Mr. McCollum said in a statement. "As a result of the federal
government's failure to secure our borders, states like Arizona have had no
choice but to take matters into their own hands and pass legislation to protect
their residents and communities."

He's right the federal government hasn't done all it should. But the
Constitution doesn't transfer federal power to states just because the feds
don't use it.

Mr. Scott said in a statement, "When I am elected governor, I'll bring the
Arizona law to Florida and the president will have one more lawsuit on his
hands."

Not everyone is so rash. State Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, who has drafted a
similar law for Florida to be considered in next year's legislative session, is
putting on the brakes. "We will wait and see," said Rep. Snyder, "what happens
in Arizona."

The Arizona law makes it a state crime to be in the country illegally, and gives
state and local police authority to determine a person's immigration status
during a lawful stop, detention or arrest. It also allows police to charge
immigrants with a state misdemeanor for not carrying immigration documents.

The Justice Department says states can't "set their own independent immigration
policies. ... Were a number of states to act as Arizona has and strike out on
their own, federal immigration policy and enforcement efforts would be
crippled."

Recognition that the feds haven't done enough is bipartisan. State Sen. Dan
Gelber, D-Miami Beach, who is running for attorney general, supports the
challenge to Arizona's law but says the federal government needs "to get their
act together and pass one comprehensive and modern immigration law that
recognizes the importance of legal immigration and provides for enforceable
mechanisms to deter illegal immigration."

His primary opponent, state Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, says, "It's
interesting that the federal government is doing more to sue over the law than
it is to enact comprehensive immigration reform."

Inaction might make the Obama administration as hypocritical as its GOP critics.
But it still has the Constitution on its side.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Activists deliver message to McCollum in W. Palm

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


About a dozen South Florida immigrant activists hand-delivered a letter to
Attorney General Bill McCollum's West Palm Beach office Thursday, part of a
statewide campaign to criticize McCollum's support of Arizona's immigration law
and to rally against establishing similar legislation in Florida.

The letter was signed by more than 90 organizations and delivered by members of
the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant Rights.

"We are really disgusted by him saying that this is a good law and that it is a
good law to bring to Florida," said Isabel Vinent of the local immigrant
coalition.

The Florida Immigrant Coalition also planned to deliver letters to McCollum's
offices in Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Tampa, Orlando and Tallahassee.

"We have received the letter, and the (attorney) general's position on the
Arizona law is clear as evidenced by the amicus brief the state filed," McCollum
spokesman Ryan Wiggins said in a statement. McCollum recently signed a brief
filed in federal court in support of the Arizona law, which is being challenged
by the federal government. The law would step up enforcement against people
suspected of being in the country illegally and require officers to check
immigration status while enforcing other laws.

On Wednesday, after a federal judge blocked some of the more controversial
elements of the law, McCollum said he would continue working with state Rep.
William Snyder, R-Stuart, to draft a similar law in Florida.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant allies take fight to McCollum's office ;
 Dozensrally in West Palm over hissupport for Arizona's law.

BYLINE: By KEVIN D. THOMPSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Jose Cerrato was born in Honduras but moved to the United States 20 years ago.

He now considers himself an American.

"I pay my taxes," said Cerrato, a Lake Worth resident.

Cerrato was one of about 60 sign-carrying activists who chanted and protested
Saturday outside the West Palm Beach office of Florida Attorney General Bill
McCollum to show their opposition to a controversial Arizona law that cracks
down on illegal immigration.

Florida's Republican legislators and candidates are considering bringing a
measure similar to Arizona's Senate Bill 1070 to Florida. McCollum, a GOP
gubernatorial candidate, recently signed an amicus brief supporting Arizona in
litigation over the law.

The law, key portions of which were blocked by a federal injunction Wednesday,
would step up enforcement against people suspected of being in the country
illegally and require officers to check immigration status while enforcing other
laws.

"This is an inhumane law," said Gayle Zavala, a Wellington resident who serves
on the executive board of the Farmworker Coordinating Council. "We need to look
at better ways to address the immigration issue."

Rabbi and activist attorney Barry Silver criticized McCollum, calling him a
"clueless" politician who knows nothing about immigrants and human rights.

As a rabbi, Silver said he can easily identify with immigrants.

"Jews have suffered quite a bit from archaic immigration laws and
discrimination," Silver said. "So we stand in solidarity with those who are
being oppressed."

Many protestors carried signs that read "No SB 1070 in Florida," "What Happens
in Arizona, Stops in Arizona" and "Stop Hate: Educate." They sang
African-American spirituals in Spanish and waved American flags as motorists
driving along Flagler Drive honked their horns in support.

The two-hour rally was organized by the Palm Beach County Coalition for
Immigrant Rights. On Thursday, about a dozen activists hand-delivered a letter
signed by more than 90 organizations to McCollum's office.

Isabel Vinent, one of the rally's organizers, said the law promotes racial
profiling.

"It just goes against everything America stands for," she said.

Radym Davis of Lake Worth said many of his neighbors are immigrants and he fears
for them if the state adopts a similar law to Arizona's.

"This law could tear families apart," Davis said.

Zavala, whose grandparents emigrated from Mexico more than 80 years ago, said
lawmakers often forget the key role immigrants have played in America.

"Many immigrants who come to this country have done nothing but work hard and
contribute greatly to the success of this country," she said.

~ kevin_thompson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dream chasersWho's right?Undocumented students fuel fight 825,000 might become
legal residents, report says ;
 They support the federal Dream Act, which would simplify the path to college
and eventual legal residence.But many conservative opponents say the bill would
create another incentive to violate immigration laws.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1292 words


They look a lot like other kids who have completed high school.

But all over South Florida, a select group of graduates -- including former
honor students -- is finding prospects more complicated and less promising than
those of many peers.

Some have been in the U.S. since they were toddlers, but because they were born
elsewhere and are not legal U.S. residents, it is much more difficult for them
to go to college.

Legislation is wending its way through the Congress that would make it easier
for these young people from all over the country to continue their educations
and eventually become legal. It is called the Dream Act -- because it would
allow thousands to accomplish their dreams.

Supporters hope it will pass this year as part of a possible compromise on
immigration legislation.

But many congressional Republicans and conservative activists oppose the bill,
saying it will only encourage more people to violate the nation's immigration
laws.

"We are definitely not for it," said Tim McClellan, a spokesman for the South
Florida Tea Party. "This is just another step toward amnesty for illegal
aliens."

The full name of the proposed legislation is the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act. Among its supporters is Camilo Yepes of West
Palm Beach.

"I've been here since I was 2," said Yepes, 21, originally of Colombia.

"I grew up just like other kids around me. I graduated high school from South
Tech Academy in Boynton Beach. But then, all of a sudden, you don't have the
same future your friends have."

Federal law mandates that school districts provide all children, including those
who are undocumented, the opportunity for a high school education. But once they
graduate, all bets are off.

Students who are not legal residents but want to attend public colleges and
universities must pay out-of-state tuition rates, no matter where they live.
Since many of the students come from modest circumstances, that makes college
more difficult to afford.

At Palm Beach State College, in-state students pay $89.10 per credit hour, while
the out-of-state rate is $323 per hour, almost four times as much.

With the 120 hours required for a bachelor's degree, in-state students pay
$10,692 in tuition, vs. $38,760 for out-of-state students -- a difference of
$28,068.

Yepes, who studies biology at PBSC and wants to be a veterinarian, graduated
from high school in 2006. But he is in just his second year of higher education
because high tuition rates have slowed his studies.

He said young people who would benefit from the Dream Act "aren't asking for
financial aid. They are just asking for what other kids who live here get. All
they want is a chance."

A common obstacle

Mirline, 19, of Boynton Beach, who is Haitian and came to the U.S. in 1999,
faces the same circumstances. She asked that her last name not be used.

She has the same story as almost all the young people who would benefit from the
Dream Act. They came to the U.S. with parents who either entered illegally or
overstayed visas in pursuit of greater economic and educational opportunities.

Mirline took advantage of those opportunities. She graduated from South Tech
Academy last year in the top 5 percent of her class, she said.

She is studying early childhood education at PBSC, but only part time. Fluent in
Creole and English, she believes school systems in South Florida could use her
skills.

"But at $970 per class, it will take a long time to finish," she said, giving
the cost of one three-credit course.

The Dream Act would allow individuals who arrived in the U.S. before age 16, and
who have finished high school here and are younger than 35, to apply for
conditional permanent residence. To stay on that path to legal residence, they
would have to finish at least two years of college or serve two years in the
military. Legal residence would be granted six years after they entered the
program, as long as they had no problems with the law.

And those people could study at in-state rates.

The Migration Policy Institute, which supports the Dream Act, issued a report
last month that said 114,000 undocumented people who have completed associate
degrees could apply for residence. The institute estimates there are also
934,000 minors in the U.S. who eventually could try to become residents under
the act, and an additional 489,000 people ages 18 to 34 who lack a high school
diploma or GED but could return to school and try to qualify.

But the authors of the report believe that many of those people would not finish
the schooling necessary or join the military. They estimate that 825,000
eventually might become legal residents.

Only the most motivated would benefit, which is a main idea behind the act -- to
keep minority students in school.

Manuel Guerra, 26, of Indiantown said he definitely would be one of those.
Guerra said he came to the U.S. from Guanajuato, Mexico, in 2000.

"I had a sister here and she told me she knew of a school where I could go and
study and learn English," he said. He enrolled first in South Fork High School
and then Martin County's adult education program, but almost quit.

"They told me even if I finished high school, I wouldn't be able to go to
college," he recalled. "So what was the use?"

But he said his teachers and other mentors pushed him and he finally graduated
from the adult education program in 2006. "I come from a large family and I'm
the first to ever graduate from high school," he said.

But he has not been able to study since and instead works blue-collar jobs. If
the Dream Act passes, he hopes to study for a particular white-collar job: He
will enter a Catholic seminary and become a priest. He said he applied years ago
and the Diocese of Palm Beach was interested.

"But then they told me they had to follow the same protocols as anyone else,"
Guerra said. "I couldn't do it because I didn't have my papers."

So he waits to see what Congress will do.

The Dream Act was introduced as a bipartisan effort in 2001 by Sens. Richard
Durbin, D-Ill., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. It has received some support from both
sides of the aisle, but never enough to pass.

Florida senator skeptical

Sen. George LeMieux, R-Fla., still doesn't think it should pass. LeMieux met
with supporters of the legislation this year in Washington, but afterward his
press secretary, Jessica Garcia, issued a statement expressing LeMieux's
criticisms of the bill.

"He believes children should not have to pay for the transgressions of their
parents," Garcia said, "but at the same time we have to be careful any change in
federal law doesn't have the unintended consequence of incentivizing additional
illegal immigration.

"Sen. LeMieux feels the current Dream Act, as written, does not provide a
long-term solution to the students' situation. A child that enters the country
illegally on the day after the ... bill becomes law will be in exactly the same
position as current students."

Many conservative activists don't like it.

"We have a lot of our own people who can't go to college," said the tea party's
McClellan. "We should be helping them and not helping illegals do it."

But the students pushing for passage of the Dream Act say it makes no sense to
spend money helping undocumented children become educated through high school
and then pull the plug.

Luis, 24, originally from Peru, came to the U.S. when he was 3, graduated from
John I. Leonard High School in Greenacres in 2005 and has been studying at PBSC
part time since 2006.

"I'm much more American than I am Peruvian," he said. "I don't even speak
Spanish well. I am basically an 'undocumented American.'

"If I finish college, I can get a job where I'll be paying a lot more taxes to
the government and it will help the economy. This would work for everybody."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Share your thoughts: What do you think of the
educationlegislation?PalmBeachPost.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 854 words


Silver hypocritical over immigration policy

In his article about the "activists" protesting at Florida Attorney General Bill
McCollum's West Palm Beach office over his stance on immigration, Kevin D.
Thompson gave rabbi and activist lawyer Barry Silver plenty of ink to rant about
Mr. McCollum being a "clueless" politician. As a rabbi, Mr. Silver continues, he
can easily identify with immigrants.

Mr. Silver said: "Jews have suffered quite a bit from archaic immigration laws
and discrimination ... So we stand in solidarity with those who are being
oppressed." Apparently, Mr. Silver isn't aware of what is happening in Israel as
reported in The Post: "Israel to deport hundreds of migrant workers' children."
Where's Mr. Silver's outrage over the Jewish state's new policy of deporting
children of hundreds of foreign workers legally residing in Israel?

In defending the new policy, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu states that
Israel "intends to stem a flood of illegal immigrants, whose children receive
state-funded education and health care benefits, and to defend Israel's Jewish
identity. "We all feel and understand the hearts of children," Mr. Netanyahu
said. "But on the other hand, there are Zionist considerations and ensuring the
Jewish character of the state of Israel."

Clearly, the state of Israel has a different perspective on immigrant rights
when it comes to preserving "Zionist considerations" and "Jewish character" than
Barry Silver claims to espouse. Imagine the outrage if an American president
made similar statements.

JIM WALTON

Tequesta

Gaylord endorsement ignored opponent's résumé

It's back-to-school time, and The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board needs to do
its homework.

The paper endorsed Laurie Gaylord for the Martin County School Board. In regard
to the incumbent's opponent, Cameron Boynton, born and bred in Lake Worth, the
only comment was, "Challenger Cameron Boynton, a former teacher who now does
wiring and other work on yachts, simply isn't qualified." Mr. Boynton's résumé
includes a bachelor's degree in business administration from Florida Atlantic
University, service as an officer in the Navy and 20 years with Pratt & Whitney
in human resources, budgets, and program control. He worked for the state as an
adjudicator and trainer for welfare recipients, spent five years with Martin
County schools in adult education and assessments and holds a professional
educator's certificate.

Only since retiring in 2003 did Mr. Boynton begin working on yacht restoration.
He's a 26-year resident of Martin County with two children who graduated from
Martin schools and two grandchildren beginning their schooling there. In his own
words, "I was born with a positive attitude and a good sense of humor, which
lends itself to a positive and smooth work environment." These are the
qualities, experience and personality the Martin County School Board needs.

JOHN CHURCH

Stuart

Candidate Kaye is antidote to stagnant, cynical politics

In the recent endorsement of Lori Berman in the Democratic primary for Florida
House District 86, The Post attempts to justify it by claiming that there is
"more to being a legislator than using the seat as a 'bully pulpit to advocate
for constituents.' " If there is something more, what is it? Is it using the
bully pulpit to advocate for special interests or for one's political career?
All this reveals is how jaded The Post is to the dysfunctional stagnocracy that
is our electoral system and the cynical norms of our political culture.

The heart of representative democracy is representing constituents, and clearly
Carole Kaye understands that. The Post failed to mention that Ms. Kaye is the
grass-roots candidate holding substantive positions on the issues and lives in
the district, while her opponent does not. There is no question that
constituents are underrepresented in our stagnant, special-interest-dominated
legislature. While The Post may seek to validate that truth, voters should not.

YURY KONNIKOV

Boca Raton

Teachers union campaign not fair to all candidates

I am writing to clarify a misperception that may arise from a Classroom Teachers
Association (CTA) flier recently e-mailed out to teachers in Palm Beach County.

There was a candidate rally last Saturday at CTA headquarters for school board
candidates who were endorsed or given campaign monies by the union. I take issue
with the quote on the flier that said, "Meet the candidates who support teachers
and education."

I have spent 32 years serving the students, parents and staff of the Palm Beach
County School District and resent the perception that because I am not on "the
CTA list" that I am not qualified to serve on the school board. I have no agenda
but to help fix what is broken and serve the best interests of the students,
parents and staff of the district.

A postcard from the CTA was also just mailed out to teachers telling them who to
vote for. Do we not live in a democratic society where adults have the right to
make their own research-based decisions?

MARILYN A. SCHIAVO

Boynton Beach

Editor's note: Marilyn Schiavo is a candidate for Palm Beach County School Board
District 4.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSLOIS FRANKELYOUR VIEWSLETTERS TO
THE   EDITORPB  TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher The Palm Beach Post
welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing andmust include the writer's
name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred length is a maximum of 200
words. E-mail: letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the Editor,The Palm Beach
Post, P.O. Box 24700,West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700 Fax:(561) 820-4278JOIN THE
DEBATE THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION: The news you need, the
analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you value. OPINION: THE DEBATE STARTS
HERE Is seafood from theGulf of Mexico safe to eat?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneTHE
CARTOON VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Will opposing views on immigration tilt state's large Hispanic voting bloc?

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1111 words


The immigration crisis, one of the most emotional issues of this election year,
played a provocative role in the Republican gubernatorial primary last month and
may do so again in November, when voters choose a governor.

Rick Scott's unflagging endorsement of an "Arizona-style" immigration
enforcement law for Florida helped him solidify the support of his conservative
base and contributed to his victory over a wavering Bill McCollum.

But in the general election, he will face Democrat Alex Sink, who has never
retreated from her opposition to such a law and who can be expected to use the
issue to attract support from the state's crucial Hispanic voters.

Florida Hispanics have strongly opposed an Arizona-style law, which would allow
local and state law enforcement officials to help enforce federal immigration
statutes. Many say it would lead to racial profiling.

George Gonzalez, associate professor of political science at the University of
Miami, sees the immigration issue putting Scott in a tricky position in
November.

"It will be interesting to see just how much he tries to rile up his base in
Central and South Florida on that issue," Gonzalez said.

If Scott does, he can expect some potential Hispanic supporters "to just stay
home" or at least skip the governor's race, he said.

At a GOP "unity rally" in Miami last week, Scott got an indication of the
trouble he may face. Some Hispanic state legislators from South Florida were
there, but not all. And nowhere to be found were the three most influential
Republicans in the South Florida Hispanic community: U.S. Reps. Lincoln and
Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.

GOP Hispanic leaders were publicly telling Scott to abandon his anti-immigrant
rhetoric. There was speculation at the rally that Scott might choose a Hispanic
running mate. Instead, he chose state Rep. Jennifer Carroll of Jacksonville, the
only black Republican in the legislature. Carroll came to the U.S. from Trinidad
-- legally -- when she was 8.

Sink, meanwhile, has approached the immigration issue by insisting that all
employers be obligated to use the E-Verify system, a Department of Homeland
Security website, to make sure all new hires are in the country legally, thereby
protecting jobs for U.S. citizens and legal residents.

State Rep. Clay Ford, R-Gulf Breeze, said Sink isn't expected to win in the
northern part of the state and so her stand shouldn't cost her much there, even
though most growers in his region depend on illegal labor.

"It's a safe stand for her to take, because nobody in agriculture really thinks
the state can afford to send people tromping around the fields asking workers
where they are from," Ford said.

Ana Navarro, a Nicaraguan-born GOP fund-raiser, said she expects Sink to
highlight her opposition to the Arizona-like legislation, especially in the
central part of the state.

"She's going to go after that Hispanic vote in the I-4 corridor," she said,
referring to a swath of Florida with a relatively large Puerto Rican bloc. "How
much of it she gets, I don't know."

Puerto Ricans are U.S. residents by birth, but like many Cubans, they sympathize
with undocumented Hispanics. They also worry about being affected by racial
profiling.

Fernand Amandi of Bendixen & Amandi, Miami-based pollsters and political
consultants known for their work with Democratic candidates, said Sink has to
overcome a basic problem with Latino voters.

"Alex Sink is an unknown quantity for Hispanic voters in Florida," he said.
"They don't know her."

But Amandi believes Scott will have an even tougher time. To begin with, 39
percent of Florida's Latino voters are Democrats and 32 percent are Republicans;
the rest are affiliated with other parties or are independents. Latinos account
for 13 percent of the state's registered voters.

Scott's conservative views on immigration also will hurt him, Amandi said.

"Scott is behind the 8-ball with Hispanic voters," Amandi said. He wonders how
much Scott will spend to try to change that.

McCollum's experience may prove educational for Scott.

Early in his campaign, McCollum rejected an Arizona-like law for Florida. Along
the way, he gained the support of many Hispanic leaders, including the
Diaz-Balart brothers and Ros-Lehtinen.

Polls showed him winning the Hispanic GOP vote, mostly Cuban-American, by a 3-1
margin.

But on Aug. 11, less than two weeks before the primary, McCollum changed course
and supported a bill that would give Florida an even more rigid immigration
enforcement law than Arizona.

"I don't know what his internal polling numbers were telling him," said
Gonzalez, the UM professor. "But it may have hurt McCollum. It looks like it
prompted some Hispanic voters to stay home."

On primary day, McCollum won counties with large Hispanic populations, but
turnout was unusually low. For example, only 25.1 percent of voters turned out
for the GOP primary in Miami-Dade County, where many Republicans are
Cuban-Americans.

"That was about 10 percent lower than the state average and Miami-Dade is
usually 10 percent higher than that average," said fund-raiser Navarro, who
abandoned the McCollum campaign after the candidate changed his position on
immigration enforcement.

Broward, Hillsborough, Osceola and Palm Beach counties, which also have sizable
Hispanic populations, also had low turnout on primary day. McCollum lost by
37,810 votes of nearly 1.3 million cast.

"He never even discussed that change in position with his Hispanic supporters,"
Navarro said. "I was blind-sided. I found it totally inexcusable that he
disregarded his Hispanic supporters in such a way. I thought he had crossed the
line into pandering to certain voters."

Navarro wasn't the only one. Spanish-language radio criticized McCollum. The
Diaz-Balart brothers and Ros-Lehtinen expressed disappointment and did not make
another appearance for him, Navarro said.

"They just stopped hitting the pavement," she said.

Many political observers believe the presence on the Nov. 2 ballot of Republican
U.S. Senate candidate Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American from Miami, will help Scott.
The question is how much.

Mike Rios, president of the Puerto Rican Chamber of Commerce in Palm Beach
County and a Democrat, said that Cubans are experienced, knowledgeable voters.

"They could pick and choose," he said. "They could vote for Rubio and skip the
governor's race."

Navarro thinks the Rubio influence could be greater, especially in South
Florida.

"Cuban-Americans are going to be very enthusiastic about voting for one of their
own for Senate," she said. "You also have all this anti-Obama feeling. In a year
with so much polarization, partisanship could count for a lot."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTIONS 2010 YOUR VOTE STARTS HERE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Give workers legal status

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 525 words


Comprehensive immigration reform is all but dead this year, given the divisive
political climate and impending midterm elections. There is, however, an
immigration bill that is critical to Florida's economy -- and less politically
risky -- that Congress should approve when it returns next week.

The Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act, also known as the
AgJOBS bill, would give temporary legal residency to about 1 million
undocumented farm laborers nationwide, including an estimated 100,000 in
Florida. In 2008, agriculture and related industries contributed $76.5 billion
to the state's economy, according to a study by the University of Florida. As in
most states, Florida's agricultural industry depends on the labor of illegal
immigrants.

Why? Few natives want the work. Only three unemployed citizens out of thousands
who inquired accepted an offer by the United Farm Workers to connect them with
farm jobs. "They really don't have any idea," union President Arturo Rodriguez
said, "what it is to work in agriculture today."

Yet agriculture is a robust sector of the economy, even as other industries
struggle to recover. Federal estimates released last week show that American
farmers will ship $107.5 billion in exports during the fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30. That's the second-highest amount on record.

For that trend to continue, Congress must make sure that farmers can hire
willing laborers. "Without a long-term immigration solution, the future of
Florida agriculture is very much in doubt," said Mike Stuart, president of the
Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association. "We have as an industry historically
relied on a seasonal and migrant workforce. As enforcement and border measures
are increased, the ability of agriculture to have access to that workforce is in
jeopardy."

A study released last week by the Pew Hispanic Center found that the number of
illegal immigrants in Florida dropped 27 percent between 2007 and 2009, because
of the economy. That drop, which was more than three times the national rate,
makes it more urgent for Congress to pass the AgJOBS bill.

Applicants for legal residency would have to prove that they have worked in farm
labor for at least 863 hours or 150 workdays during the past two years. They
would have to pay $500 in fines for entering the country illegally and settle
outstanding tax bills. Felons, or those with serious misdemeanor convictions,
would be excluded.

"The American people have a choice," Mr. Stuart said. "Essentially, they can
agree through their elected representatives to a process which would allow
American agriculture to have access to a stable, legal workforce or they can
source their food from outside the country and I think, given the experience
we've had with sourcing our energy supplies from outside our borders over the
last 25 to 30 years, that's not widely held as a positive development."

The AgJOBS bill has bipartisan support. It would not create a path to
citizenship, so it doesn't have to get caught up in the wider immigration
debate. There's no good reason that it should not become law.

-- Rhonda Swan, for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSHELP FLORIDA'S FARMSOPINION: THE
DEBATE STARTS HERE  Should Congress grant legal status to
farmworkers?pbpost.com/go/opinionzone

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Staying cool on a hot issue ;
 The success could shame Congress into immigration reform.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 261 words


One of the best-known Sherlock Holmes mysteries turns on a dog that didn't bark
in the night. One of the best-known issues in Palm Beach County just became the
controversy that didn't bark at the council meeting.

Last week, the Jupiter Town Council extended for three years the $1-per-year
lease of town property for the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center. There were
no organized protests, as there once were at the center itself. One speaker
complained that the center, which matches immigrants -- illegal and legal --
with short-term employers is depriving Americans of jobs. No objective research,
however, supports that. As for the idea that Jupiter is wasting money by
upgrading the property, the work would have been necessary whoever was occupying
the building.

While Congress will waste another year arguing over immigration reform that is
in plain sight, the people who run El Sol have turned a hot issue cool. To
counter criticism that the center doesn't help the community, laborers volunteer
to work on Habitat for Humanity projects. To counter criticism that the
immigrants don't want to assimilate, El Sol offers everything from English
classes to advice about complying with town ordinances.

In March, a slate of candidates tried to use El Sol as a wedge issue against
incumbent council members who support the center. The incumbents won big. By
working so hard in the four-plus years since the center opened, the people of El
Sol and town officials have shown Washington how good ideas can travel up.

-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EL SOL RESOURCE CENTER

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 29, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Is this his last chance for a dream?Immigrant hopes for Dream Act passage face
tough odds in lame-duck Congress ;
 Congressional obstacles dim an Indiantown man's 'only hope.'

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 779 words


Manuel Guerra of Indiantown, who has lived in Florida more than 10 years,
learned last week that he had lost his case before U.S. immigration authorities
and may be deported to his native Mexico.

Guerra, 26, knew he might lose his appeal and has been pinning his hopes on
Congress passing legislation called the Dream Act.

That bill would allow undocumented immigrants, 35 and younger, who were brought
into the U.S. before age 16 and have finished high school, to earn the right to
stay by serving in the military or attending college for two years. Guerra would
qualify.

"At this point my only hope is to get the Dream Act passed," Guerra wrote in an
e-mail.

The bill is scheduled to go before the lame-duck session in the U.S. House
today, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has said he will bring it
up for a vote in December.

A Republican majority is set to take over the House in January, and many of
those legislators promised voters they would be hard on illegal immigrants.
Supporters see the next two months as their last chance, for some time, to pass
the legislation.

Those advocates say individuals covered by the Dream Act should not be punished
for the actions of parents or other relatives who brought them to the U.S.
illegally and that they should be able to stay in the country where they have
been educated.

The Dream Act, which stands for Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors Act, failed in Congress in September, when it was attached to a Defense
Department authorization bill. Military leaders support the measure because it
would increase their recruitment pool.

Some in Congress saw that as an attempt to sneak the legislation through on the
back of a larger bill. Not one Republican senator voted for it. This time it is
being presented as a stand-alone bill.

Guerra, who is part of Students Working for Equal Rights, a national group
working for passage, says he is going to Washington to lobby GOP members of
Congress. He visited the office of Sen. George LeMieux, R-Fla., in September.

"I will be visiting again Sen. George LeMieux and my congressman, Thomas Rooney,
who oppose amnesty," Guerra said.

Rooney's office issued a statement Wednesday saying he was still opposed.

"Immigration is fundamentally a national security issue, which is why any
immigration reform must secure our borders, uphold the law and reward those who
follow the rules," it said. "Passing the Dream Act would provide another
incentive for individuals to come here illegally."

"While I do not support the Dream Act," said Rooney, R-Tequesta, "I would be
willing to consider a stand-alone bill that would grant legal residence status
to anyone who puts on the uniform and serves in the U.S. military."

Despite Rooney's position, supporters say they have the votes they need in the
House, including those of two South Florida Republicans, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and
Lincoln Diaz-Balart, both of Miami.

Senate passage will be much more difficult. LeMieux said before the last vote
that he opposed the bill because he was afraid it would lead more undocumented
individuals to enter the country illegally. Despite many pleas from Dream Act
supporters, he has announced no change in that position.

Only one Republican senator, Richard Lugar of Indiana, has said he will vote for
it this time.

Supporters of the bill are trying to sway several others, including Bob Bennett
of Utah, Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe of Maine, Judd Gregg of New Hampshire,
Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, George Voinovich of Ohio and Scott Brown of
Massachusetts.

Some of them, like LeMieux, are lame ducks -- they won't be returning in January
-- and are considered possible converts because they won't have to worry about a
backlash from conservative voters.

But the supporters will need several of those of those votes, and most political
observers don't think that will happen. On Sunday, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,
said the Dream Act was "going nowhere."

Democrats control the Senate 58-42, but it takes only 40 votes against the bill
to filibuster and block it. And the supporters can't rely on all the Democrats.
Ben Nelson of Nebraska, for one, opposes it.

He said he would not support the Dream Act until it is "part of an overall
comprehensive solution to immigration once we have the border secured, not until
then."

President Obama supports the bill.

"This is about accountability, not amnesty," said a White House official who has
been closely monitoring the Dream Act.

"It will take a few Republicans to get this through Congress, but they have to
realize we can't keep kicking the can down the road. They have to help govern
and to solve some of the problems."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE Congress returns with full agenda Tax cuts, 'don't
ask' among top issues. 10A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN GETS 10 YEARS IN IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 142 words


A Loxahatchee man who took part in an immigrant smuggling trip in which one man
drowned off the coast of Palm Beach was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison
Friday.

Luis Perez, also a Cuban national, was previously convicted of conspiring to
commit alien smuggling resulting in death.

He was one of three men who have been charged with organizing or taking part in
a trip that smuggled 35 Cuban nationals who jumped from a 33-foot Hydra-Sports
boat and tried to swim to shore off Palm Beach in November 2007, according to a
U.S. attorney's office report.

One man drowned. The rest made it to shore and were taken to Miami by federal
authorities.

Also charged in the smuggling case are the boat's co-captain Angel Arce-Perez,
42, of Miami and its captain Aurelio Sanchez-Ortega, 19, of Miami. The status of
their cases was unclear.

~ jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 521 words


Employers have no excuse to hire illegals

Regarding the letter "Immigrants add much more than they take," a picture is
worth a thousand words. In the local section of The Post it showed me that an
illegal alien is taking a job that should be done by a citizen. The protesters
were exercising their First Amendment right of free speech and the right to
petition for redress of grievances against elected officials who aren't
responding.

As to "mismatched" Social Security numbers, what part of illegal or fraud
doesn't the writer understand? With E-verify, an employer has no excuse for
hiring illegals. The El Sol Center in Jupiter compounds the problem by
"accommodating" the violation of our laws. I consider the spending of $9,000
each month for parenting and other courses at El Sol grand theft from the Palm
Beach County taxpayers and approved by our unelected Children's Services Council
members.

BARBARA SUSCO

Lake Worth

Placement of stories shows paper's priorities

I found it quite interesting that The Post published two articles, one on the
front page and the other on Page 2, concerning the murder of abortion doctor
George Tiller, yet buried in the back of the paper the murder of two young Army
recruiters in Arkansas. Was it because the doctor's business was the ending of
lives, or because the two young recruiters' lives were dedicated to the
protection of American lives?

Wait a minute; could the culprit be political correctness? After all, the
alleged murderer of the two young recruiters was a fanatical Muslim convert, and
a newspaper shouldn't cause undue alarm. Alas, we have a world turned upside
down.

DAVE SMITH

Tequesta

Swirl Girls a marketing tool for alcoholism

The Swirl Girls, now being featured in the Food section, bring to mind Proverbs
23: 31-32, "Look not upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour in
the cup, when it moves itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like an adder." One can see the truth in that at any big-city skid row
rescue mission, and on the street outside where alcohol has reduced men from all
walks of life to begging and urinating in public. The Swirl Girls have the power
of youth and beauty now, but passing sailors should be warned to stop up their
ears lest they hear the siren's song and founder on the rocks.

ALAN STAGG

Palm Beach Gardens

Bush kept us safe; Dowd should get over it

In reading Maureen Dowd's columns critical of former Vice President Dick Cheney,
I see that not only is Ms. Dowd a legend in her own mind, she is a liberal who
allows others to have an opinion only if it agrees with hers.

Ms. Dowd should consider the fact that after 9/11, America wanted to prevent
another attack on our citizens at any cost. Now, the sanctimonious ones like
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and, of course, Ms. Dowd want to distance themselves
from our protectors. She still is determined to undermine an administration that
no longer is in power. Get over it. President Bush made his decisions as he saw
fit, and regardless of Ms. Dowd's military and intelligence considerations, he
kept America free from terror attacks.

ALFREDO TAULÉ

Palm Springs

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boss who hired illegal workers gets prison term ;
 The company owner paid themoff the books.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The national battle over the government's inability to stem the tide of illegal
immigrants got personal Friday in a federal courtroom.

U.S. District Court Judge Kenneth Marra bristled at the suggestion that the
government's time would be better spent keeping illegal immigrants from entering
the country than prosecuting a suburban West Palm Beach man for hiring them.
Business people such as Mark David, Marra said, are a big part of the problem.

"One of the reasons they come is because people hire them," Marra said. "If
people wouldn't hire them, they wouldn't be coming in droves."

And, prosecutors said, the 48-year-old owner of Sun Deck Concrete not only hired
illegal immigrants but he paid them more than $2 million under the table, which
meant he didn't pay nearly $480,000 in payroll taxes or workers compensation
insurance.

David's attorney, Bruce Reinhart, said his client hired the illegal workers at
his Riviera Beach business because they were longtime friends and good workers,
and he couldn't find American-born or documented workers to do the job.

Marra didn't buy it.

"Mr. David said he needed these workers. That means he needed these worker at a
price he was willing to pay," Marra said. "There's a profit motive here."

As to Reinhart's claim that the practice is widespread in the construction
industry, Marra said that's exactly why David had to be punished.

"People need to know there's serious consequences for this behavior," he said.

David, who faced a maximum five years in prison, was sentenced to 16 months
behind bars. He has repaid the IRS and the insurance company. The lenient
sentence, Marra said, was spurred by the numerous people wrote letters or spoke
on David's behalf.

Among those who spoke at the hearing was Tory Buckley. His daughter, 17-year-old
softball player Amanda, was murdered in 2007. Buckley told how David worked
tirelessly to make the Amanda J. Buckley Memorial Field of Dreams in Palm Beach
Gardens a reality.

"Why did he do it?" Buckley asked, his voice choked with emotion. "His integrity
as a man."

However, an attorney who represented a former Sun Deck supervisor who helped
David mask his hiring practices, said his behavior wasn't always honorable.

When David discovered that Juan Gonzalez was helping the feds unravel the shell
companies he had created to hide his illegal business practices, he fired
Gonzalez, said David Garvin, who represented Gonzalez.

Prosecutors acknowledged that Gonzalez, 49, of West Palm Beach, had helped them
build the case.

Gonzalez apologized for being involved in the scheme. He didn't ask for mercy.

Still, Marra said, because of his cooperation he would spend less time behind
bars than his former boss. He sentenced him to 10 months in prison.

~jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 29, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNTIL U.S. CAN BAIL OUT ITSELF, SEND ILLEGALS BACK

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 99 words


Re: Dan Moffett's article about the resuming of the Bush administration's
deportations of Haitians ("Bail out Haiti with phone call," Dec. 21), I offer
the following comment: It is irresponsible for the country to not deport all
illegals.

This comment is not made easily or with heartlessness but, rather, with stark
reality in mind. This country is in dire straits and can barely sustain itself
without the added responsibility of caring for those who should not be here. The
U.S. would love to help everyone out, but sometimes, it just has to stop -- at
least for a while.

TERRY BENNETT

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CITIZENS' HEALTH CARE COMES BEFORE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT'S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 178 words


I am neither uncaring nor insensitive, but the health care of an illegal
immigrant does not and should not take priority over the health needs of U.S.
citizens. A Martin County jury was right on Monday to find for Martin Memorial
Medical Center regarding its care of Luis Jimenez.

I understand the plight of this illegal immigrant from Guatemala, but the truth
of the matter is that he should not have been here in the first place. The fact
that the courts even had to consider this case is beyond understanding. How many
(taxpaying) Florida senior citizens or indigent veterans who are in dire need of
health care could have been serviced with the $1.5 million spent on this illegal
immigrant? Where is the public outcry? Groups such as AARP and veterans
organizations should be more vociferous.

One no longer has to wonder why there's no money for expanded health care in
this country. It's obvious that we're giving it away. The United States can no
longer be financially responsible for the health of the world at the expense of
its own citizenry.

ALAN WEINSTEIN

Wellington

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NOT A LIE -- BUT NOT ENTIRELY TRUE EITHER

BYLINE: By MICHAEL C. BENDER Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 440 words


U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson's decision to heckle President Obama during a speech to a
joint session of Congress may have been inappropriate and regrettable, as Wilson
said in his apology. But was what he yelled correct?

What was said?

About halfway through Obama's speech, he addressed the issue of whether his
health insurance plan would provide coverage to illegal immigrants.

"There are also those who claim that our reform efforts would insure illegal
immigrants," he said. "This, too, is false. The reforms I'm proposing would not
apply to those who are here illegally."

At that moment, Wilson shouted, "You lie!"

Who's right?

Technically, illegal immigrants could be insured under the bill that has passed
three House committees (HR 3200). But the proposal would not provide illegal
immigrants with anything they can't already receive.

Three fact-check groups -- CNN's Truth Squad, Politifact.com and FactCheck.org
-- have debunked a viral e-mail that claimed illegal immigrants would receive
free health care. "That's simply not what the bill says at all," according to
FactCheck.org.

But Obama said simply that illegal immigrants couldn't receive insurance under
the proposal, and that isn't exactly correct.

So what's in the bill?

There is no mention of providing anything to illegal immigrants that they do not
already receive, and it explicitly states that illegal immigrants cannot receive
any government money to help pay for their health care.

What would be available for illegal immigrants?

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, an anti-immigration group based
in Washington, argues correctly that illegal immigrants would be allowed to
participate in the national health insurance exchange.

That program would, in effect, let individuals and small businesses shop and
compare health insurance plans. The exchange would include the public option, a
government-run insurance program that would compete with the private market.

"But it's worth pointing out that illegal immigrants participating in the
exchange would be paying for their insurance like everyone else," Politifact.com
said. "That's similar to the current system -- we're not aware of any particular
restrictions that stop illegal immigrants from buying private insurance now."

So illegal immigrants appear to be eligible to buy the public option, but they
could not receive so-called "premium credits" or "cost-saving credits" that
would help drive down premiums.

Has Wilson apologized?

Yes, but he hasn't retracted his claim. "While I disagree with the president's
statement, my comments were inappropriate and regrettable," he said in a
statement.

~ michael_bender@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HEALTH CARE DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MASSAGE PARLOR OWNER PLEADS GUILTY TO FEDERAL CHARGES

BYLINE: By JULIUS WHIGHAM II and MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 270 words


A former suburban West Palm Beach massage parlor owner pleaded guilty Friday to
charges of harboring illegal aliens and money laundering, the U.S. Justice
Department said.

Mal Suk Kim, 60, is scheduled for sentencing July 20 before U.S. District Court
Judge Kenneth L. Ryskamp. She also will forfeit $150,000 involved in the money
laundering offense, the federal agency said in a news release.

Kim was arrested in 2008 after a lengthy investigation of the Asian massage
parlor that involved U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the IRS, the FBI
and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. Another woman, Hannah Eun Sun Chong,
50, of Wellington, pleaded guilty last year to the same charges and will be
sentenced July 8, the release stated.

Court documents show that Kim hired two undocumented workers to live and work at
the Coral Spa at 4730 Okeechobee Boulevard. Customers paid Chong for work
performed by the women. Chong, in turn, paid a portion of those proceeds to Kim,
the release stated.

Investigators staked out the spa for eight months before raiding it in September
2008.

Inside, they found two Korean women who admitted to investigators they were
living in Florida illegally, ICE Special Agent Kenneth R. Cisneros said in a
sworn statement.

The women said they came to work at the spa by way of New York, and one admitted
to routinely engaging in sex acts with men who paid her $20 to $40 per massage
session, Cisneros said. The other woman, speaking through a translator, told
agents Mal advised her to "use her body and love him like his wife" when dealing
with clients, Cisneros said.

~ julius_whigham@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Follow the case More crime news, special features.
PalmBeachPost.com/crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 483 words


Beef up border: Shoot illegals who cross over

These criminals who come across illegally have nothing to fear! If they are
apprehended, they are treated better by the Border Patrol than in their own
homeland.

My solution is simple. Place hundreds, possibly thousands, of well-armed
National Guardsmen along the border. When illegals are spotted, announce that
they will be shot if they put one foot on American soil. The use of rubber
bullets is fine.

I don't condone killing these illegals, but I do support stopping them with the
only thing they seem to understand: brute force.

The more we remove the illegals, the better our towns will be without the added
burden of supplying free housing, health care, schooling, food stamps, etc.

I am not a racist, I am an American who has had enough.

KATHLEEN ECKEL

Indiantown

Delray sidewalk code inadequate for traffic

Delray Beach's 5-foot-wide sidewalk code does not provide enough space for
pedestrians. Not when the 5 feet include: restaurant wait staff, customers lined
up for reservations, pedestrians walking in both directions, bicycles, baby
strollers, wheelchairs, in-line skaters and other obstacles.

These sidewalks were widened as part of the A1A Improvement Project. Now, in
lieu of providing safer bike lanes or wider sidewalks, this space is being used
for more dining tables.

A crash like the one that occurred recently on Atlantic Avenue could have been
deadly had it occurred on A1A.

JIM SMITH

Delray Beach

Editor's note: Jim Smith is chairman of Safety As Floridians Expect.

Why risk environment for short-term benefit?

Florida's environment is crucial to its economy. Our coasts alone provide a
$65billion benefit. Yet we are constantly at conflict with those who insist on
sacrificing our environment to benefit short-term economic needs that have
long-term negative consequences.

Clearly Floridians realize that offshore oil drilling is not worth the risks.
Rock mining is another example of a poorly regulated industry that has the
potential for long-term ecological damage. Rock mining blasts into sensitive
limestone surface layers, opening up the aquifer to contamination. At the same
time it brings to the surface briny substrata that can contaminate surface water
and plants. This contamination cannot be contained on site as DEP seems to
pretend.

DREW MARTIN

Lake Worth

Editor's note: Drew Martin is the conservation chair of the Sierra Club
Loxahatchee Group.

BP says Americanswon't bear costs: Ha!

A television ad for BP has its spokesman stating that the company will indeed
compensate the "little people" (my interpretation) for monetary losses due to
the oil spill, a word I find particularly offensive. It is not a spill, it is a
geyser. He then goes on to say that the costs will not be borne by the American
people.

Does that mean that BP will not charge any monies paid out against its potential
tax bill? I think not.

WARREN RESEN

Greenacres

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

letters to the editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 481 words


Shooting illegals is un-American

The letter to the editor regarding the shooting of illegals ("Beef up border:
Shoot illegals who cross over," July 10) needs a response. When the writer
states "I am not a racist, I am an American who has had enough," and yet
suggests to shoot illegals when they set foot on American soil, it is a form of
sickness, it is not the American way, and it will not happen.

That writer is an American racist, and Americans have a way of dealing with
problems without resorting to the killing of human beings.

Maybe "one should not criticize another until they've walked a mile in their
shoes," which was one of the comments made regarding American Indians when there
was so much hate toward them many years ago. I suggest that the letter-writer
walk that mile in their shoes before making such hateful statements.

KEN MAIN

Lake Worth

Most in U.S. came from elsewhere

We are so tired of the vitriolic whining of those attacking illegal immigrants.
First, we are all unwanted immigrants or descendants of them, with the exception
of the American Indians, who made no agreement to allow us access to their lands
and drive them from their homes. Time does not erase or excuse our pillaging and
domination of these lands.

All present complainers or their kin originally left their homelands for the
same reasons as those that leave today. Yet we know of no immigrants today that
are murdering entire tribes in cold blood for their land.

In addition, the ignorance of these whiners is unbelievable. We would all be
starving within a matter of weeks without illegal immigrants. No picked fruit,
no fresh vegetables, closed food processing plants. Please don't say any one of
us "Americans" is going to do these jobs; look at www.takeourjobs.org.

So stop whining and go pick some vegetables!

CHRIS and DINA BELL

Lake Worth

Arizona critics should pay support

People who don't live in Arizona and demonstrate against the Arizona immigration
law should pay Arizona taxes to help support their illegal immigrants.

JIM WALLACE

Port St. Lucie

Invasion by illegals an act of war

On our southern border we are being invaded -- this is an act of war -- an
invasion by illegal aliens.

In the 19th and 20th centuries, our naturalization and immigration service
allowed only 300,000 immigrants into the U.S. per year. These new immigrants
were given papers, given physical exams, learned English and became good
tax-paying citizens. All accepted immigrants were orderly and legal.

President Obama must contact the Mexican ambassador to the U.S. to tell his
people to stop breaking the law. Our commander in chief is screwing up.

The Mexican president was out of order by criticizing our state of Arizona's
immigration laws to our U.S. legislators ("Mexican leader rips Ariz. law
immigration debate," May 21).

Our Arizona governor must countersue President Obama's lawsuit.

JOSEPH SHARONE

North Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No truth in this labeling ;
 DREAM Act has conditions, is not 'amnesty'

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 285 words


Whatever your opinion of the so-called DREAM Act, here is one fact: It's not
amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act has been around for
almost a decade, since before illegal immigration became the daily bread of some
talk show hosts and the main course for some politicians. It would apply to
non-citizens who are younger than 35, arrived before they were 16, have been
here for five years and have obtained a high school diploma or GED. They could
apply for permanent resident status if they serve two years in the military or
complete two years of college and maintain good moral character.

Those are conditions. They are not amnesty. Yet when the Senate shot down the
DREAM Act this week, some critics called the proposal "amnesty." Those critics
are wrong. "Amnesty" is what President Carter granted those who dodged the draft
during Vietnam by going to Canada. "Amnesty," in effect, may be what President
Reagan granted in 1986 when he signed the Simpson-Mazzolli bill that placed no
penalties on those who were in the United States illegally.

A lot was wrong about how the Senate took up the DREAM Act. It was part of a
must-pass military spending bill. By bringing it up now, Majority Leader Harry
Reid left himself open to the charge that he was making a play for Hispanic
voters in Nevada. Sen. Reid faces a tough reelection campaign.

But it's a sign of how dysfunctional the Senate has become that Orrin Hatch, a
Republican, voted against the DREAM Act. Sen. Hatch introduced the DREAM Act in
2001. The DREAM Act's death shows that those hoping for a rational discussion of
immigration are dreaming.

-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 1, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 1176 words


DREAM Act would amount to reward for lawbreaking

Despite what The Palm Beach Post claimed in its editorial, the DREAM Act would
be amnesty.

Spun as legalization for "young people who should not be punished for what their
parents did" (violate American immigration laws), the DREAM Act could legalize 2
million illegal aliens up to age 35, and then allow them to sponsor their
parents -- who brought them here illegally -- for U.S. citizenship. Extended
relatives, too.

The DREAM Act also would retroactively repeal the federal ban on in-state
tuition for illegal aliens, so state governments could grant this subsidy at the
expense of citizens and legal residents. A citizen or a real immigrant whose
family obeyed our laws and joined the American family that silly, old-fashioned
legal way would pay higher out-of-state tuition rates while illegal aliens paid
less.

The DREAM Act would require the Department of Homeland Security to legalize
every illegal claiming to meet minimal criteria: 1) present in the U.S. for the
past five years; 2) a U.S. high school diploma or GED, or admitted to a U.S.
institution of higher learning; and 3) of "good moral character," with no more
than two misdemeanor convictions. But neither the House nor Senate version
requires proof that amnesty applicants actually meet those minimal criteria.
Once an alien filed an amnesty application, he could not be removed from the
U.S. until the application is processed and a final decision on amnesty has been
made.

All amnesty applications go to the front of the line for processing, thus
bypassing millions who have applied to come to the United States the right way.
There are no numerical limits, and there's no end date for the application
process.

Aliens would have to complete two years of college or military service during
their first six years of legal residence, but the DHS could waive the
requirement or grant additional time to comply. The DREAM Act is a reward for
violating American immigration law. That's un-American.

D.A. KING

Marietta, Ga.

Editor's note: D.A. King is founder of the Dustin Inman Society, which is
"dedicated to educating the public and our elected officials on the consequences
of illegal immigration."

West doesn't focus on real issues; he just rants

I had hoped this year's U.S. House District 22 campaign would focus on issues
important to people and on proven facts about the candidates. However,
Republican Allen West is referring to Democratic Congressman Ron Klein as a
"cretin," "little Lord Ron" and "a mama's boy." Mr. West implores his supporters
to "get your musket" and "fix your bayonet," openly questions President Obama's
citizenship and urges his supporters to make Rep. Klein "scared to come out of
his house."

I don't know whether to be concerned at the man's grasp on reality or his
maturity. To tell U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Weston, to "not try to
hide little Ronnie behind your skirt" is both misogynistic and absurd. How can
we trust Allen West to be a leader and solve challenging issues when he can't
even give a speech without ranting and continually resorting to name-calling,
scare tactics and fear?

We need a real leader like Rep. Klein, not a candidate whose views are out of
the mainstream even for his own party. I'd like Mr. West to show he can at least
wage a campaign focusing on the issues, like health care, jobs and the economy.
And a little dignity would be a lovely change, too.

SUE LUFTGLASS

Lake Worth

Why does FAU need stadium? UM has 5 titles, no stadium

"Kudos to FAU for seeing football dream realized" by Florida Atlantic University
coach Howard Schnellenberger and "Football stadium will bring new chapter to FAU
life" by an FAU alumni board member both applaud everyone who worked to get the
stadium approved. FAU has much to be proud of: its new medical school, the
honors college at the Abacoa campus and an outstanding theater program, to name
a few.

But the University of Miami, which has won five national championships, does not
have a stadium on or near its campus. Has it hurt the football team's
recruitment? Has it hurt the life of students on its campus?

What will this and related projects really cost? Has the project really taken
into consideration transportation on existing streets and Interstate 95? How
much more money might it cost the taxpayers to enlarge and improve roadways?
Will it cause even more congestion on access routes?

When FAU announced that it would establish what was then known as a Division I
program, the highest level and now known as the Football Bowl Subdivision, I
wrote a letter suggesting there would be no shame in having a Division II or
Division III program. It's better to be a big fish in a little pond than a
little fish in a big pond.

HAL SCHAFFER

North Palm Beach

POW/MIA day ignored. Why?

Regarding The Palm Beach Post's Sept. 17 edition, the paper did not mention that
it was POW/MIA Recognition Day. I did not find it anywhere in print or online.
It was a disgrace to those who have served, those who were POWs, those still
missing in action and to their families. I advised The Post in advance via
e-mail in addition to forwarding appropriate information. Lack of mention by The
Post was disrespectful.

FRANK A. PLESCIA

Palm Beach Gardens

Editor's note: Frank A. Plescia is Florida POW/MIA chairman, and an officer with
Disabled American Veterans.

Star athletes run amok with crime, little punishment

"Rainey out indefinitely after arrest"

"Mayweather faces three more felony charges"

"Ex-MVP Mitchell to stand trial on assault charges"

"Haslem won't face marijuana charges"

"Meyer: UF arrests are out of control"

"Morgan's suspension reduced to 8 games"

"K-Rod violates restraining order with texts"

What is wrong with our athletes? They think that because they are stars they can
get away with anything. They live in a fantasy world. They should be dismissed
from their teams and face prosecution. There are plenty of law-abiding athletes
waiting in the wings to take their place.

MARY V. SMITH

West Palm Beach

Lake Worth needs leaders who will help businesses

I was thrilled to read "Lake Worth races pit two business-backed newcomers vs.
enviro newcomer, incumbent," pointing out the dire situation that the city finds
itself in.

As stated in the article, "Falling property values, unkempt homes, burdensome
electric rates and the city's need to attract and retain businesses" are issues
on my mind. Lake Worth needs change to recover. As a member of the Business
Aligned for Change political action committee, I believe that business creates a
thriving and sustainable community. As a longtime homeowner in Lake Worth, I
know that Lake Worth will never be West Palm Beach. The people and families
living here are what give the city its unique charm. It is when those families
have no choice but to leave Lake Worth to survive that the city will change for
the worse.

I want to see change that the residents of Lake Worth need: a thriving, healthy
and economically stable community that can happen only with strong, truthful
elected officials.

GREG RICE

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Help Dobbs save nation from his landscapers

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 549 words


Calling all patriots!

It's time to muster. Time to rally for the cause. Time to reach for your mowers,
your edgers, and, while you're at it, something to scoop up the horse droppings.

Lou Dobbs needs us.

Dobbs, who possesses nearly a quarter of the national stockpile of gravitas, has
been put in a pontifically compromised position by a smear campaign of facts. It
turns out, some left-wing magazine had the nerve to interview the workers who
maintain Dobbs' Palm Beach County home and the equestrian interests of his
daughter, and discovered that five of them admitted to being illegal immigrants.

This is terrible news. We need Lou Dobbs. He is the non-thinking man's thinking
man. How are we supposed to rally behind his calls to seal the border when we're
wondering who's edging the borders of his lawn?

Humble reply: 'So what?'

Finding out Lou Dobbs is benefiting from the labor of illegal immigrants is as
soul-crushing as discovering that Sarah Palin can't stand the taste of moose.

We must do something.

Dobbs has done his best to minimize the story in The Nation by saying that he
didn't directly hire any illegal workers, and that the work is done through
contractors.

"The only person who would have been an illegal in any context would have been a
landscaper who was working for the contractor working on my house in Florida,"
Dobbs said during an interview on MSNBC. "That may have happened."

The broadcaster said that's not his fault. "So what?" Dobbs said. "How would I
know that?"

Still, it looks bad. After all, Dobbs is the guy who warned us that the
landscaping business is full of illegal immigrants and that employers who hire
them should be charged with felonies.

No time for pesky problems

I say it's time for us real American citizens of Palm Beach County to rally for
Dobbs.

He has a lot of tea party gatherings to attend, and he needs to be free to
continue to question Barack Obama's American citizenship.

So the last thing he needs to worry about is whether there are more illegal
immigrants taking advantage of him by working hard for low wages as they
maintain his wealthy lifestyle.

Don't worry, Lou. We've got your back.

I'm organizing an American-only labor pool to work on Dobbs' yard and pick up
after his daughter's horses. The group will be called GRINGOS --- Gaining Real
Independence on Native Gardens or Stables.

I suspect I'm going to need a lot of GRINGOS workers. Probably about four for
every foreign worker.

The work will be slow at first, because the first couple of days will be devoted
to going over the employee handbook, discussing your 401(k) investment plan and
attending the mandatory human resources training sessions on sexual harassment.

I'll have to work out the details with Dobbs on your uniforms, the frequency of
work breaks, upgrading the lavatory facilities and the food requirements; vegan,
kosher, etc. And we'll hold a raffle to see who gets to be on the riding mower.

But within a week or so, we should be putting in a solid three or four hours of
actual work. Did I mention casual Fridays?

We'll talk about it at the workers comp orientation seminar.

In the meantime, turn off Fox, take off that flag lapel pin and put on something
comfortable. It's time to help Lou Dobbs save America from the people working on
his lawn.

~frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Get more Bino  Read Cerabino's past columns, Twitter posts and his blog.
PalmBeachPost.com/go/cerabino

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 30, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BOAT CAPTAIN CHARGED WITH HUMAN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA DeNARDO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 203 words


The captain of the boat filled with illegal immigrants that ran aground near
Boynton Beach Monday night was charged with human smuggling after he told
authorities he brought the boat from the Bahamas for $5,000, according to U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Jovel Dominguez-Hernandez, 27, allegedly smuggled seven Haitian nationals and
one person from Sierra Leone from Nassau to the Boynton Beach area on a boat
called the Angelina. Authorities detained Dominguez-Hernandez and the Angelina's
passengers after a Briny Breezes resident saw the boat flashing its lights and
called police.

Before authorities could intercept the boat, it came ashore at Gulfstream Park,
prompting the passengers to run and hide. Police took the immigrants to the
Boynton Beach Police Department.

Federal authorities had the boat under surveillance since December, when they
discovered it was carrying an abnormally large amount of fuel in waters off
Martin County.

They also discovered discrepancies in the boat's destination from the boat's
operators.

It is the second time that Dominguez-Hernandez has been allegedly involved in
human smuggling. In December, he was given a written warning in Key West.

~ christina_denardo@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN CHARGED IN FATAL SMUGGLING STAYS JAILED

BYLINE: By SADE GORDON and ANDREW MARRA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Haitian man charged with trying to smuggle immigrants into South Florida on a
boat that sank and killed at least 9 people agreed Friday to stay in jail
without a hearing until his trial.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Ann Vitunac ruled that Jimmy Metellus, 33, would be held
without bail after his public defender said Metellus had waived his right to a
detention hearing.

Metellus was accused of captaining a boat bringing more than 30 immigrants from
the Bahamas to Miami on May 13. The boat sank in the Atlantic off the Florida
coast, leaving its passengers floating in the water for more than 10 hours.

Twenty-five people were pulled from the water east of the Boynton Beach Inlet,
nine of then dead. As many as 10 others are believed to have drowned.

Metellus, pulled from the ocean with the other survivors, faces charges of
inducing foreigners to illegally enter the United States.

His arraignment has been postponed until July 1.

~ sade_gordon@pbpost.com

~ andrew_marra@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED LABORERS STRUGGLE AS ONCE-DEPENDABLE JOBS VANISH ECONOMY;
SQUEEZES IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


A young Guatemalan immigrant named Juan Carlos stands along Lake Avenue with
many other men eyeing each car that passes. They are waiting for a would-be
employer to pull up and offer them work for a day, or two or maybe more --
landscaping, painting, digging ditches, whatever. This has been a familiar scene
for years in downtown Lake Worth, but Juan Carlos, 25, says until recently he
wasn't part of it.

"For two years I was working construction, making $14 an hour and a lot of
overtime," he says. "I had my own apartment. I sent money home, as much as
$2,000 one time.

"Now I haven't worked more than one or two days a week in three months," he
says. "I pay $150 to share an apartment with other people. I used to eat out
sometimes, but now I cook. I've only sent home about $300 in these past three
months for my wife and child."

And he is lucky. Standing across the street, Manuel, 30, also Guatemalan, an
experienced roofer, says he hasn't worked a day in two months.

"I have two brothers here who are supporting me," he says. "I would go back home
to Guatemala, but now I owe money and I can't. Some people are going back, but
those are ones that don't have any debts."

All over the largely Hispanic immigrant community, both legal residents and the
undocumented say the recession is causing convulsions in their lives. Some of
the industries that have provided them with work for years -- construction and
restaurants in particular -- are among the hardest hit by the economic downturn
in South Florida.

A Pew Research Center study released in September indicated that many Mexicans
also are crossing back across the border because they can't find work in the
U.S. The study said that in the construction industry alone, Hispanic workers,
both documented and not, lost 250,000 jobs between 2007 and 2008.

"We saw a wave of people going back a few months ago," said Manuel Allende,
director of the Farmworker Coordinating Council of Palm Beach County.

Sister Rachel Sena, who works with Guatemalans at the Maya Mission in Lake
Worth, says she saw such departures last year. But now Guatemala is experiencing
drought and widespread malnutrition, and the flow of people leaving for economic
reasons has slowed.

"Those who have gone back say it is very difficult there," she said. "No jobs,
more hunger."

Local caregivers say most immigrants are hunkering down. Many have been here for
years, started in itinerant agricultural jobs, but worked their way into
full-time local jobs during the boom years, when work was plentiful for the
undocumented.

"You're seeing a lot of those people getting laid off and going back to farm
work," said attorney Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in
Lake Worth. "And there aren't many jobs that pay less than farm work."

Jim Kean, a Catholic Church social worker in the farming town of Immokalee,
confirmed that many undocumented workers who had moved on to other work are
showing up back in town.

"But the growers are saying it's supposed to be a wet winter so they may not
plant as much as normal," he said. "There may not be work for those people even
here."

Immigrants in South Florida are moving in with each other, sometimes creating
overcrowded conditions. They are visiting free food pantries, where demand is up
about 30 percent this year

Immigrants who have been here for decades, are U.S. citizens and might normally
help those in need can't always do so.

Alex Rivera, 52, from El Salvador, came 35 years ago and is a U.S. citizen. He
runs Alex Painting and says he has hired many immigrants over the years.

"But I can't give anybody work now because I don't have work myself," said
Rivera, interviewed at the Lake Worth Resource Center, where immigrants search
for work. "I've hardly worked the past 10 months. There was a kind of immigrant
economy here -- in the corner stores, the restaurants, the movie theaters -- but
no money is moving through there now."

The Rev. John Mericantante, pastor of St. Mary Church in Pahokee, has heard that
from many people. His congregation is overwhelmingly Hispanic and many members
are undocumented.

In years past he helped people who had trouble paying bills. Now so many people
are unemployed that demand is way up while donations are way down. "I've been
here 19 years and this is the worst I've seen it," he said. "I have a woman who
usually gives me $5,000 per year to help others. This year she couldn't do it.
Both her sons are out of work. She has to help them. What can you say?"

As in the past, when people call the church they get Mericantante's warm
recorded greeting in both Spanish and English. But today he has had to add a
sentence that is just a bit harsh, much like the economic situation.

"If you are calling for help in payment of bills, because of the recession we
can no longer help pay bills here at St. Mary's," he says. "Please do not call
us back for that kind of assistance."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BILL INGRAM Staff Photographer Angel Carew (right) helps an immigrant
at the Lake Worth Resource Center. Many workers from Guatemala have given up and
returned home after months of not being able to find a job.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bullet ducked ;
 Jupiter, Lake Worth could be Fremont.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 640 words


Residents of Jupiter and Lake Worth should pause a moment to appreciate all the
immigration problems they don't have.

Sure, fast-growing populations of immigrants from Latin America have put a
strain on government and tested the capacity of ethnic communities to get along.
Both cities have had to take extraordinary measures, such as creating labor
centers, to get foreign workers off the streets. Both cities have endured
criticism for that and other efforts to deal pragmatically with immigration
problems that Washington has ignored for decades. Jupiter and Lake Worth haven't
solved all their problems, but they have done a remarkable job of coping with
them. They could have turned out like Fremont, Neb.

Fremont, with a population of about 26,000, is about 30 miles northwest of
Omaha. It is a place in the nation's heartland that always has been positioned
on the pathway of change; the first transcontinental telegraph, railroad and
highway all passed through the Fremont area.

Over the past 20 years, so have thousands of immigrant workers. Most of them
came from Latin America to work at the Fremont Beef and Hormel meat-processing
plants. They took physically demanding, relatively low-paying jobs that native
workers would not take.

Not many American families are raising their kids to grow up and earn a living
making Spam. But foreign workers were glad to do it.

As with Jupiter and Lake Worth, the Hispanic population in Fremont has swelled
during the past two decades, though, according to the Census Bureau, it's still
less than 5 percent of the total. By the way, the unemployment rate in Fremont
is also less than 5 percent -- half the national average. Foreign workers aren't
depriving Americans of opportunities.

Last year, a widely publicized federal raid at the Fremont Beef plant found
dozens of illegal workers, and that became the flashpoint for the latest local
movement to do something about illegal immigration. In June, with 57 percent of
voters approving despite resistance and warnings from some city officials and
the chamber of commerce, Fremont passed an ordinance that bans people from
hiring or renting homes to illegal immigrants.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund sued the city, claiming
that the law discriminates against Latinos and denies them due process. The ACLU
sued, claiming that the law was unconstitutional and usurped power from the
federal government. City officials expect at least one more suit before the law
takes effect on Thursday.

Meanwhile, strained relations between ethnic groups in Fremont have gotten
worse. Business leaders have said the ordinance will complicate their existence.
Hormel has complained that its workers are all legal, yet the plant and its
employees have been targeted.

City leaders still are trying to figure out how to implement the law. Fremont
will have to train police, educate the public and buy some new computer
software. One misstep could bring another round of lawsuits.

These are all problems Jupiter and Lake Worth could have had but don't. Instead
of assailing their Hispanic residents, Jupiter and Lake Worth engaged them and
worked with them. The leadership in the two cities recognized that foreign
workers contribute mightily to their local economies and that American consumers
are complicit in the immigration mess.

Jupiter and Lake Worth have worked to integrate immigrants into their
communities and are better for it. Out in Fremont, officials estimate that the
new law will cost $1 million a year to defend and enforce. The city's tax
revenues amount to $4.5 million annually.

The city has started a legal defense fund, so citizens can make donations to
help pay for the legal bills. City Clerk Kim Volk says $687 has come in.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 29, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Human trafficking becoming epidemic in Fla., authorities say

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 312 words


Florida is emerging as a major hub for human trafficking in the United States,
authorities say.

Unlike smuggling, the hot-button issue now propelling a nationwide immigration
debate, trafficking occurs when immigrants are raped, beaten or otherwise forced
into labor or the sex trade.

The crime is approaching epidemic proportions in Florida, authorities and
nonprofit groups say.

"I can't tell you what a major problem it is in this state," said Tony
Attanasio, a retired U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent who created a
human trafficking course for law enforcement. "It's just an unbelievable
problem."

One statistic placed the number of people trafficked into the U.S. each year at
between 14,500 and 17,500, but no exact figure exists.

Numbers of people trafficked into states are even harder to come by, as
federally mandated programs have yet to keep tabs.

"We know that human trafficking is a hidden crime," said Luz Nagle, a professor
at Stetson University who specializes in human trafficking issues. "We have many
industries in Florida. We have the agricultural industry, we have the sex
industry, we have the hotel industry, we have the restaurants, because we have
tourism."

Authorities here often treat trafficking victims as criminals rather than
witnesses and rarely use a state statute covering human trafficking, observers
say. As a result, traffickers are arrested less frequently than they could be.

Often, it's difficult even to identify victims, who vanish because they're
ashamed or afraid of immigration charges.

In the case of two Honduran sisters forced into sex slavery at county
nightclubs, FBI agents learned of the crime only after an anonymous phone call
to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center hot line.

There's no way of knowing how many people even now are being similarly exploited
in Palm Beach County.

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

I 'was tea party before there was a tea party,' McCollum tells activists

BYLINE: By ANDREW ABRAMSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 348 words


Trailing in the Republican gubernatorial race, former front-runner Bill McCollum
tried Wednesday to draw support from a group that could be crucial to his
chances in next month's race: the South Florida Tea Party.

McCollum, the state attorney general and once the presumptive Republican
nominee, has trailed businessman Rick Scott in recent polls. So McCollum is
hoping to appeal to the tea partyers, telling a group of nearly 300 activists
that, "Bill McCollum was tea party before there was a tea party."

Speaking at a South Florida Tea Party rally Tuesday at the South County Civic
Center west of Delray Beach, McCollum said the state legislature should freeze
local taxes for two years.

"I don't think property taxes should go up," McCollum said. "For the next two
years we're going to have a lot of problems. This would not be a permanent
freeze, but a huge timeout."

He suggested that certain special-need agencies, like police, could be exempt.
He received the loudest ovations when talking about his lawsuit to have the
federal health care overhaul deemed unconstitutional, and his support for the
Arizona immigration law.

However, he said Florida doesn't need a similar law that allows police officers
to check on a person's immigration status, saying Florida officers already have
the power to do that when arresting someone.

A staunch anti-illegal immigration crowd rumbled, and one woman shouted, "Why
isn't it being enforced? We have a million illegals in Florida."

McCollum said the state needs to concentrate on the federal E-Verify system, a
controversial program that allows employers to check electronically on an
employee's immigration status.

McCollum said the state should give a 10-year tax exemption to high-tech,
biotech and aerospace firms that want to relocate to Florida.

He also called on Gov. Charlie Crist to give back Republican donations for his
Senate race that he received before deciding to run as an independent.

"He's not a Republican anymore," McCollum said. "If someone wants their money
back, and they ask for it, he should return it."

~andrew_abramson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'AMERICANIZE' IMMIGRANTS, TASK FORCE URGES

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States must embark on an aggressive effort to integrate immigrants,
including teaching them English and U.S. history, a federal task force
recommended Thursday.

If this "Americanization" fails, the nation could see major problems in 20 or 30
years, with foreign-born populations detached from the larger society and
engaging in anti-social behavior, said Alfonso Aguilar, who heads the U.S.
Office of Citizenship.

Aguilar compared the potential strife to what is occurring in some Western
European countries where foreign-born populations do not feel part of the larger
society and are not accepted by many as full citizens.

"We should not be naive and assume that the assimilation process is going to
happen automatically," Aguilar said Thursday at a news conference.

The Task Force on New Americans recommends that the federal government take a
leadership role in an "Americanization movement," but also says that states,
local governments, nonprofit groups and the private sector should play a key
part.

The report strongly emphasizes that immigrants must learn English to fully
integrate into American society.

Aguilar said immigrants currently want to learn English but many cannot find
classes.

He said the report is not recommending "an ugly, English-only approach," but "a
friendly, proactive literary effort."

The report does not specify how much money federal or state governments should
use for adult English-language instruction, but does urge the development of
Internet-based electronic learning tools for adults to learn English and civics.

The task force also recommends that every state create a "state integration
counsel" made up of state and local government officials, businesses,
faith-based organizations, civic organizations and nonprofit groups that work
with immigrant communities.

It also calls for more U.S. history and civic instruction at all levels of
schooling and urges American businesses to provide English-language instruction
for their employees.

Aguilar said the widespread integration effort is needed because of the unique
nature of current immigrants who are mostly from Latin America, Asia and
Caribbean nations and are coming in large numbers. By 2025, about 14 percent of
the nation will be foreign-born, he said.

In addition, current immigrants are venturing to new states, such as Georgia and
North Carolina, and to suburban communities that are not accustomed to
foreigners, Aguilar said.

The task force is part of a Bush administration effort to promote citizenship.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

40 CUBANS REACH SHORE AT NIGHT NEAR MAR-A-LAGO

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


A group of 40 Cuban immigrants will get to start the New Year in the United
States after coming ashore on Palm Beach near the Mar-a-Lago Club on Friday
night.

The immigrants, including three children and one pregnant woman, were dropped
off by a 35-foot boat that came ashore in the 1200 block of South Ocean
Boulevard, just south of the club, around7:30 p.m., Palm Beach Fire-Rescue
Battalion Chief Pete Codispoti said.

None of them was injured, but the pregnant woman and her 8-year-old daughter
were taken to a hospital after the woman complained of stomach pains, Codispoti
said.

Police and U.S. Border Patrol agents responded to calls about people coming
ashore.

The immigrants were rounded up and officials were holding them late Friday night
at the side of a parking lot near the roundabout where Southern Boulevard meets
Ocean Boulevard.

They were given blankets and water.

Codispoti said the immigrants told police they left on Sunday, though he was not
sure if the boat left directly from Cuba.

All of the immigrants likely will be allowed to apply to stay in the U.S.
because of the U. S. policy that allows Cuban immigrants to apply for asylum if
they make it onto U.S. soil before being caught by authorities.

The border patrol has taken custody of the immigrants and will fingerprint them
and try to contact any relatives they have who live in the U.S., Codispoti said.

Police found the boat on the shore but did not find anybody inside it, he said.

~ jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BRANDON KRUSE/Staff Photographer Cubans wrapped in blankets sit on the beach
Friday night in Palm Beach. A pregnant woman and her daughter were taken to a
hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 31, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW PRESIDENT VOWS TO CONTINUE EL SOL'S MISSION

BYLINE: By BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Health fairs, classes in American culture and artwork by immigrants -- and a
place to find a job -- are all part of the daily mission at the town's El Sol
Neighborhood Resource Center.

And new president Jill Hanson said that's the course the nonprofit organization
will maintain.

"We started with all volunteers. Now, we have three full-time employees and have
strong local support. I want to continue the cooperation between El Sol and the
community," said Hanson, 63, an Ohio native who recently retired from her West
Palm Beach law firm.

Hanson, who has worked for free as El Sol's legal counsel, will hold the unpaid
position for two years.

Not all north county residents welcome the center, which opened in September
2006 with the goal of helping workers who were soliciting for jobs on Center
Street and in other neighborhoods.

"El Sol has no business promoting the hiring of illegal aliens," Jupiter
resident Robert McCormick said.

The center has enjoyed widespread support from town officials and nearby
neighborhoods.

Prospective employers come to the Military Trail center to hire for jobs such as
construction and house cleaning.

El Sol employees and volunteers do not negotiate wages. They do not ask the
workers about their immigration status.

Hanson, a Jupiter resident, has been surprised at the growth in cultural and
educational programs since the center started.

Several workers display and sell their blankets, paintings and other artwork.
Computer and English classes are taught. A health fair drew dozens. Thanksgiving
and Christmas dinners have attracted many families.

"Many people don't know the good work we do here. We've got to do more to get
the word out," said Hanson, who was appointed president by the executive
committee last week. "And anyone with skills in education, business and
computers is needed to volunteer."

The center was named after Hanson's husband, Sol Silverman, a political activist
who died in 2005.

Former El Sol President Mike Richmond, 73, a former journalist, remains as one
of five members of El Sol's executive committee.

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

2008 El Sol by the numbers

1,371:Workers registered.

2,350:Employers registered.

8,798:Individual jobs filled.

36,264:Meals served (donations accepted).

$70,566:Private grants and donations.

$343,602:Value of volunteer labor (calculated at $18/hour).

Source: El Sol 2008 year-end report

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Hanson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SICK GIRL'S MOTHER ON BRINK OF BEING DEPORTED GETS STAY

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Haitian woman, less than an hour away from turning herself in for a
deportation that would have separated her from her chronically ill child,
received a last-minute reprieve Monday.

Vialine Jean Paul, 34, was to present herself at the offices of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement in downtown Miami at 9 a.m. She was driving there with her
family, preparing to say goodbye to her daughter Angela, 7.

A number of powerful people, including U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., and U.S.
Reps. Kendrick Meek, D-Fla., and Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., had
contacted ICE asking that her deportation be stayed. But their efforts had not
succeeded.

Then at 8:15 a.m., in the car, her phone rang. An ICE official said that Jean
Paul would not be forced to board a plane for Haiti at 2 p.m. as planned. Her
case is under review.

"I am grateful because of my daughter and her illness," Jean Paul, of North
Miami, said emotionally to a room of journalists. "I am going to be able to take
care of her."

With members of the Florida congressional delegation publicly opposed to her
deportation, the case had become a cause célèbre.

And Monday it turned into a rare "feel good" moment for South Florida Haitians,
who in 2008 saw their native country decimated by four destructive storms.

Advocates for Haitian immigrants insist Haiti is still too damaged and dangerous
for anyone to be deported there. The Bush administration suspended deportations
to Haiti for a time last year but resumed them in December.

The family had planned to give a sad news conference about the deportation.
Instead, there were tears of joy.

"We believe they have saved a life," said Cheryl Little, executive director of
the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, of ICE officials.

Jean Paul's daughter, Angela, is being treated for an unknown illness that has
caused her debilitating headaches and vomiting, Jean Paul said. In the past six
months she has been in hospital emergency rooms several times, her attorneys
say.

Three doctors had written to ICE saying that deporting Jean Paul would
jeopardize the child's health.

Jean Paul is married to Journel Timot, an American citizen and a bus driver for
Miami-Dade County. Angela, born in the United States, is also a citizen.

But before they were married and before the child was born, Jean Paul, in 2001
received a final order of deportation because she had entered the country
illegally in 1992. Before the stay Monday, ICE had ruled that the deportation
order should be enforced despite her subsequent marriage and the birth of the
child.

It was not clear Monday what the final disposition of the case will be.

Little said the case involved "special circumstances" and expressed doubt that
the Monday decision would affect the cases of other Haitians facing deportation.

ICE spokesperson Nicole Navas said Jean Paul had been offered various
opportunities to appeal her case but had not prevailed in immigration courts.
She said that in denying Jean Paul the right to stay in the U.S., ICE had
followed the law as stipulated by the Immigration and Nationality Act.

"The United States offers significant due process as evidenced in this case even
for those who choose not to obey the law," Navas wrote in an e-mail. "After
allowing years of hearings and appeals, ICE is responsible for the final
enforcement action, as directed by law."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 LOU TOMAN/Sun Sentinel Vialine Jean Paul celebrates with her daughter and
husband at a news conference Monday in Miami originally intended to discuss her
deportation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RAID STARTED DISASTROUS CHAIN OF EVENTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 269 words


The March 15 column by Dan Moffett on "Shifting immigration politics?" recalling
the inane tactics of former Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff, tells only half of the story of the policy of "hauling off busloads of
illegal workers in handcuffs."

In May, nearly 400 "illegal" workers were picked up at a kosher meatpacking
plant in the Midwest, one of the largest such plants in the country. What were
the consequences of this governmental action? The consequences will shock you.
The workers involved were left unemployed. Because of their illegal immigrant
status, it was unlikely that they could find new employment, as a result of
which many of them and their families became homeless and no doubt were enrolled
as welfare recipients.

The kosher meatpacking plant that employed these workers had to file for
bankruptcy and ceased production, leaving the remaining "legal" workers of the
plant unemployed. And a vast hole developed in the kosher meat market. As a
result, the price of kosher meat soared. Residential Jewish homes such as
Tradition in West Palm Beach were compelled as a consequence to raise their
residential rates. Many residents who could not afford the increase were
compelled to move out.

A seemingly innocuous raid by the DHS for no real purpose related to homeland
security led to a concatenation of events that did nothing to improve homeland
security but caused irreparable harm to a large segment of the American people.
Hopefully, Janet Napolitano will effect change that gives real meaning to the
essence of the term homeland security.

B. JEROME SHANE

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 6, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VIGIL CONFRONTS PLIGHT OF EIGHT MEN

BYLINE: By BILL DiPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Holding candles, about two dozen people gathered at Currie Park on Sunday night
to protest the deportation of eight men to Guatemala.

Nine men were arrested March 26 at the park's boat ramp by the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection.

One was released after he proved he had proper immigration status. The other
eight were deported because they could not prove they had legal immigration
documentation.

"There was no probable cause for their arrest," said Jill Hanson, president of
the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center. "Federal agents were practicing racial
profiling by simply rounding up people at random that they determined may be
illegal immigrants."

El Sol is a Jupiter center for local residents to hire workers on an hourly
basis. El Sol officials do not ask a worker's immigration status.

Federal agents were at the Currie Park boat ramp watching for potential illegal
drug or immigration activity when they investigated the nine men who were in a
pickup, said Nicole Navas, spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is under the Department of Homeland Security.

When the men could not provide identification, they were taken into federal
custody, Navas said. She did not have their names.

"We don't just pick people up and arrest them. That is absolutely inaccurate,"
Navas said.

"These men made culpable statements that led agents to suspect their legal
status."

The lawyers and immigration rights supporters gathered to draw attention to the
growing intimidation of immigrants that is happening nationwide, Hanson said.

The eight men decided to fly back to Guatemala -- at American expense -- after
they were told they would spend months in jail before their case was resolved,
said Aileen Josephs, a West Palm Beach immigration attorney who represents
Guatemalans with immigration issues.

"These men have no money. They could not post bond," Josephs said. "They did not
understand, so they decided to go back home."

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BRANDON KRUSE/Staff Photographer Immigrant rights activists gather
Sunday atCurrie Park in West Palm Beach, where nine menrecently were arrested.
Eight have returned to Guatemala.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

10 DROWN, 17 RESCUED;
DEADLY CROSSING;
COAST GUARD COMBS WATERS FOR;
'MIRACLE';
IMMIGRANTS IMPERILED AFTER PACKED BOAT FLIPS

BYLINE: ByMICHAEL LAFORGIA, BILL DIPAOLO and JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


One by one, the bodies were carried off the boat in a somber sunset procession.
Wrapped in silver tarps or white sheets, they rode up the long wooden dock on
gurneys.

The paramedics had a steady rhythm worked out by the time they reached the last
one -- a tiny brown package, small enough to carry in a gym bag. The body of a
child.

In the latest sad chapter in the ongoing immigration saga played out in the deep
waters between Florida and the Caribbean, about 30 Haitian and Bahamian
immigrants spilled into the Atlantic Ocean early Wednesday after their boat
capsized about 15 miles off the South Florida coast, the U.S. Coast Guard said.

The men, women and children, including an expectant mother and a man stricken
with appendicitis, bobbed and treaded water helplessly for about 10 hours,
driven inexorably northward by the Gulf Stream. Battling hypothermia and
exhaustion in the 70-degree water, they might all have drowned had not a boater
on a pleasure cruise spotted two figures among the waves and called for help.

By nightfall, at least 10 of the immigrants, including the child wrapped in
brown, were confirmed dead. An unknown number were missing.

The dead were among 27 men, women and children pulled from the ocean by the
Coast Guard, which scrambled a helicopter and at least three boats overnight to
comb an ever-widening search area as it stretched north on the Gulf Stream.

"We'll keep searching," said Chief Warrant Officer James Mullinax of the Coast
Guard's Lake Worth Inlet station. "You always hear about miracle stories."

At a briefing in Miami Wednesday evening, Coast Guard Capt. James Fitton said
rescuers still didn't know how many people went into the ocean.

"Nobody has an actual head count," said Fitton, who speculated the immigrants
might have been borne west by smugglers from the Bahamas.

Mullinax wouldn't say whether he suspected smugglers, especially given that
rescue parties found no trace of the immigrants' boat.

But, he added, "When you see that many people crammed onto a boat that small,
you can see how somebody would make that assumption."

The U.S. Coast Guard called in the Cormorant, an 87-foot cutter, at least three
smaller boats and helicopters to scour the water for survivors.

As the rescue operation took shape, a Coast Guard flight surgeon was flown by
helicopter to the cutter, where he directed triage as the survivors were brought
aboard, said Bosun's Mate 1st Class Tom Sims.

As the dramatic rescue unfolded at sea, an equally sprawling and impressive
effort was under way on land. Responding to a Coast Guard alert that between 20
and 100 people were badly hurt, about 50 fire and paramedic trucks from Palm
Beach County, Palm Beach, Boynton Beach, Lake Worth and a private county
contractor swarmed the Boynton Inlet at about 1:30 p.m.

An hour later, the emergency workers, most of whom weren't needed, were told to
move to Riviera Beach.

"It wasn't perfect, but no civilians were harmed because of that," said Deputy
Chief Steve Delai of Palm Beach County Fire-Rescue. "We'll have the opportunity
to learn from some of these things."

A Coast Guard helicopter flew two young women to Delray Medical Center, said
hospital spokeswoman Shelly Weiss. One was critical and the other was in good
condition, Weiss said.

The Coast Guard flew a third survivor to Palms West Hospital in Loxahatchee,
said hospital spokeswoman Lisa Gardi. That person was still alive Wednesday
afternoon, Gardi said.

By 4:30 p.m., survivors started coming ashore on Coast Guard boats. The worst
off were taken by ambulance to St. Mary's Medical Center. The walking wounded
were cared for at the Coast Guard station in Riviera Beach. The dead were
carried to a morgue set up in Phil Foster Park by the Palm Beach County Medical
Examiner's Office. Autopsies were scheduled for this morning.

Fourteen people remained on the cutter offshore. Once recovered, the survivors
will be interviewed and processed by immigration officials.

The Coast Guard on Wednesday was investigating reports that the immigrants' boat
left for Florida from the Bahamas.

The Royal Bahamian Defence Force offered help in the rescue but was waved off
because the survivors already were so close to the Florida coast, said Chief
Petty Officer Mario Bain, from Nassau. Bain said his agency and local police in
Bimini were trying to determine whether the boat left from that island, which,
along with Grand Bahama, is closest to the Florida coast.

Staff writers Eliot Kleinberg, Andrew Marra and Don Jordan contributed to this
story.

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

Previous incidents at sea

February 1994: Two adults and two boys, part of a group of Haitian immigrants
struggling to reach shore after being dropped from a boat, drown off Hutchinson
Island in Martin County.

March 1999: Three Haitians survive a mass drowning off Palm Beach County that
may have claimed as many as 40 lives.

May 2002: A boat carrying an unknown number of Haitians capsizes off the
Bahamas; 13 drown and 73 are rescued by the Coast Guard.

August 2002: A boat carrying 39 immigrants runs out of gas off Jupiter Island,
prompting many to swim to shore. Two are reported missing.

April 2003: A boat capsizes off the Dominican Republic with more than 100
Haitians aboard. At least four die and 16 are reported missing.

September 2005: A 6-year-old Cuban boy dies when a boat capsizes while he and
his parents are being pursued by a Coast Guard cutter about 45 miles south of
Key West.

November 2005: A woman jumps off a smuggler's boat and tries to swim to shore in
Manalapan. A police officer discovers her body in the surf around 2:30 a.m. At
least 18 other Haitian immigrants are caught and detained.

November 2005: The bodies of three Haitian women wash ashore in Pompano Beach.
At least a dozen other people are caught and detained.

April 2006: Rolnique Metayer, 35, of Haiti dies when a boat capsizes about 25
miles off Pompano Beach. Two others were believed to have been swept away.
George Rolle, a Bahamian, was indicted on five smuggling counts.

April 2008: A boat capsizes near Nassau, killing at least 14 Haitians. The
captain, a Honduran man living in the Bahamas, is one of three survivors and is
later charged.

-- Compiled by staff researcher Niels Heimeriks

A voyage gone bad

2 a.m.:A boat loaded with more than two dozen immigrants capsizes in the Gulf
Stream between Bimini and West Palm Beach.

12:40 p.m.:A pleasure boater pulls two survivors out of the water and radios the
Coast Guard.

1:38 p.m.: Coast Guard search gets fully under way with a jet, two helicopters,
the87-foot cutter Cormorant and at least three other boats. About 50 emergency
vehicles gather at the Boynton Inlet at a makeshift triage center.

2:30 p.m.: At the Coast Guard's request, the triage center is moved to Phil
Foster Park in Riviera Beach.

4:20 p.m.: Two boats arrive at the Coast Guard station in Riviera Beach with the
first survivors.

7:45 p.m.: A 41-foot cutter arrives with eight dead and one survivor. The Coast
Guard continues to search through the night.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More on the capsizing online * View video of rescue officials on the
scene. Browse through the online photo gallery. Get the latest updates on the
search for survivors. PalmBeachPost.com Better life drives many to take risky
journey, 2A

GRAPHIC:  ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer CARLINE JEAN/Sun Sentinel Emergency
workers carry a survivor of the capsized boat to a triage center at Phil Foster
Park in Riviera Beach on Wednesday.Coast Guard boats and aircraft transported
victims ashore, where emergency workers rolled them on gurneys into triage.
Twenty-seven men, women and children were pulled from the ocean after their boat
capsized.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

6 BODIES NOT IDENTIFIED; DEPORTATION FEAR CITED

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 401 words


Six bodies pulled from South Florida waters last week remain nameless, and
officials worry families won't claim them.

"I don't think they trust us all that much, and they need to," said Tony Mead,
operations manager at the Palm Beach County Medical Examiner's Office. "We
wouldn't ask any questions if they're here legally or illegally. We're trying to
get them back to their families."

A boat from the Bahamas believed to be carrying more than 30 people sank off the
Boynton Beach Inlet Wednesday, killing at least 10. One of the survivors,
33-year-old Jimmy Metellus, faces federal charges of smuggling illegal
immigrants.

The names of the six have not been released because of the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's criminal investigation and because relatives have not been
notified, Mead said.

Four victims have been identified by friends or relatives, but the bodies have
not been released because the immediate family must grant permission, Mead said.

He said that those who have come forward are not from Palm Beach County. The
Haitian Consulate office in Miami is working with his office to locate the
families in Haiti for permission to release the bodies.

Haitian community leaders also worry that relatives and friends will not claim
the remaining six for fear of being deported. Haitians from Palm Beach County
and the Miami area hope to provide funerals for the unidentified but do not know
if the county will release the bodies to them.

The Rev. Roland Desormeaux of Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church in Delray Beach
said his church wants to bless the dead.

"Even if they don't have money, they sell their homes, they sell their land, to
give their loved ones a proper burial," he said of those in Haiti. "If (the
families) are not here, as a Haitian pastor, I should be concerned about that."

Mead said the bodies could remain in the county's possession for as long as 60
days. After that, the county typically buries them in various cemeteries, at an
estimated cost to taxpayers of $700 for each adult plus the cost of a burial
plot.

Lantana resident Gens Flermont believes his 26-year-old son, Elson, was on the
boat that sank, but Elson's name was not on the list of survivors released last
week. Flermont is now wondering if he should visit the morgue.

"Maybe he's there. Maybe he's in the ocean. Maybe he's alive," Flermont said.
"I'm going to find out about my son."

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRAGEDY PREVENTABLE; SEEK LEGAL MEANS OF IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 332 words


Last November in a letter to the editor, I made a plea to the South Florida
community to help end the tragedies that occur as family members take to the sea
to reach the U.S. illegally. While I am hopeful that the community has embraced
my plea, tragedy has struck once again.

In the early morning hours of May 13, a boat with at least 25 men, women and
children capsized off Boynton Beach. By sheer luck, a Good Samaritan happened
upon two survivors and alerted the Coast Guard. We launched a massive,
interagency effort to locate additional survivors. As we mounted the effort, we
determined that the vessel was illegally transporting migrants to South Florida.
Survivors estimated there could have been as many as 30 people on the boat when
it sank. We were able to save 16 people. Sadly, at least nine lives -- including
those of a pregnant woman and an infant -- were lost. Many others may have
perished.

Our thoughts and prayers are with each of the lost, the survivors and their
loved ones. Our actions remain focused on preventing future tragedies. The Coast
Guard, along with our federal, state, and local partners, remain committed to
protecting life at sea and our nation's maritime borders. We continue to
aggressively patrol, rescuing migrants from their peril while providing food,
water, shelter and medical attention on our vessels. We will do so with regard
to the respect and dignity of all people.

Without community action, the unforgiving sea will continue to take the lives of
those who try to reach our shores in overloaded vessels operated by ruthless
human smugglers who have no regard for the safety of their precious cargo. I ask
each member of our community to once again embrace our continuing plea for help.
Don't encourage family members to take to the sea to reach the U.S. illegally,
and never deal with human traffickers. There are safe and legal means to
immigrate to the United States. Semper Paratus -- Always Ready.

REAR ADM. R.S. BRANHAM,

U.S. Coast Guard

Miami

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BASHING IMMIGRANTS IS NOT THE AMERICAN WAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 125 words


Dan Moffett's analysis is accurate: "The spread of swine flu through the
hemisphere also has spread a new outbreak of xenophobia." ("Avoid political
pandemic," May 4).

Some mainstream media pundits and anti-immigrant groups are blaming immigrants
in general and Mexicans in particular. These pundits too often have blamed
immigrants for other societal ills.

Now comes the suggestion that terrorists are using undocumented immigrants to
pass the virus onto unsuspecting Americans. In 2007, hate crimes against Latinos
accounted for 62 percent of all ethnicity-based hate crimes. This country needs
to live by its ideals as a pluralistic society and a nation of immigrants.

DANIEL M. LYONS,

Florida Regional Board Member

Anti-Defamation League

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC:  Newell

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

METRO REPORT

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 532 words


POLICE BLOTTER

LAKE PARK -- The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office and the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are looking for a woman in connection with a
string of suspected arsons at the Walmart SuperCenter at 101 N. Congress Ave.
The woman, whose image was captured by security cameras, looked to be in her
early 20s, had a slim build and stood between 5 feet and 5-foot-2. She carried a
black backpack with white pockets and wore a floppy hat pulled low. Two fires on
Sunday and a third on Tuesday forced evacuations of the store. Anyone with
information about the fires can call Crime Stoppers at (800) 458-TIPS (8477).

Mark Pinder, 41, and Parson Exana, 38, are charged with smuggling 655 pounds of
cocaine from the Bahamas to Jupiter. Federal authorities say the two arranged
for a smuggler to import cocaine by boat and didn't realize the smuggler was
working with federal investigators. They were arrested May 26 in the parking lot
of a Home Depot on Indiantown Road in Jupiter by agents from U.S. Immigrants and
Customs Enforcement and other law enforcement agencies. They face federal
charges of conspiracy to import cocaine into the United States. Both are being
held in the Palm Beach County Jail.

Five Department of Motor Vehicle employees were arrested Friday and charged with
issuing fraudulent driver licenses to undocumented immigrants, according to the
Sun Sentinel. Authorities said the license examiners accepted fake passports and
immigration documents to process the licenses at the Driver License Office off
South Military Trail, west of Delray Beach. They were paid for their part in the
scheme, according to an affidavit from the Florida Highway Patrol. Those
arrested were Melita Dera Zilea, 28; Maggie E. Nelson, 46; Debbie H. Collins,
42; Jashonda Kaliha Scott, 28; and Patreese Harvey, 28. They were charged with
four felonies, each carrying a maximum of five years in prison.

A man who befriended people through Little League baseball persuaded them to
invest hundreds of thousands of dollars in his medical products company and then
used their money to pay bills and buy liquor, authorities said. James William
Downing, 46, of Port St. Lucie was arrested this week on securities transaction
fraud charges. Downing, who had previous security and wire fraud convictions,
pocketed $353,250 from several trusting investors and then spent $45,518 on
cars, bills, food and liquor, according to the St. Lucie County Sheriff's
Office. Investigators suspect there are more victims. Anyone with information
can call Detective Sgt. Frank Pellegrini at (772) 462-3602.

PALM BEACH

PALM BEACH -- A career officer at the Palm Beach Police Department has been
appointed the agency's new chief. Maj. Kirk Blouin, 42, was named police chief
by the town manager Friday and took office immediately. Blouin joined the
department straight out of college in 1989 and worked his way through the ranks
during nearly 20 years, according to a news release from the town of Palm Beach.
His annual salary will be $137,943. Top pay for the position is $164,864.
Longtime Police Chief Michael Reiter retired in late February. Since then, Maj.
Richard Howe has served as interim chief.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Weather, traffic, breaking news and special reports
PalmBeachPost.com/Local

GRAPHIC:  Downing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUST THE DRIVER LICENSE RING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 503 words


Criminals use lots of tools, from assault weapons to lock picks. But one of the
most sought-after tools is an official driver license. That's why law
enforcement came down so hard on the operation in the Delray Beach office
supplying Florida licenses to illegal immigrants. That's why the crackdown must
continue until it shuts down the entire operation.

As The Post reported Monday, employees at the driver license bureau were
accepting bribes of $500 to $2,500 in return for issuing valid licenses to
illegals who supplied bogus immigration papers and usually didn't even take the
driving test. The licenses can be useful for such relatively harmless scams as
avoiding arrest and deportation if stopped by a police officer while driving.

But South Floridians know that there are much darker reasons why criminals
obtain driver licenses. Mohamed Atta and other 9/11 hijackers had driver
licenses to help avoid difficult questions and buy airplane tickets. Ease of
travel by air and on the road also is a reason that drug mules would want driver
licenses.

Because of all the ways criminals can use driver licenses, law enforcement
correctly set up a task force. It was led by the Palm Beach County State
Attorney's Office and included the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, police
departments in Boynton Beach and Delray Beach, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency
and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Florida Highway Patrol.

The task force has arrested five women who worked at the Delray Beach driver
license office and one Haitian immigrant who allegedly provided fake immigration
documents. State Attorney Michael McAuliffe said in an interview that won't be
the end of it. "The investigation is very active and focused," he said, "so
you'll see a second round in a timely manner."

Mr. McAuliffe said the probe, which started in February, likely would spread to
new people and new offices in Palm Beach County.

Mr. McAuliffe said that he's seen no evidence of terrorism. He would not say
whether there was evidence of drug trafficking or whether higher-ups in the
scheme have yet to be arrested. But it seems safe to assume that a scam on this
scale -- hundreds or even thousands of licenses were issued fraudulently --
could not have been financed by individual immigrants seeking minimum-wage jobs.

Mr. McAuliffe said his investigation was centered "in this community," but that
he suspected it could be going on elsewhere, a thought echoed by David
Westerberry, communications director for the Florida Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles that runs the license offices. "As strong as we think
our quality assurance is," he said, "recent arrests have given us a reason to
step back and make sure the integrity of (licensing) is upheld."

A few states allow illegal immigrants to have driver licenses. Recently, though,
Michigan and Maryland ended the practice. State employees in Delray and
elsewhere who were issuing phony licenses weren't just misusing their jobs. They
were endangering public safety.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FUGITIVE ARRESTED IN WEST PALM

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Federal agents arrested a man Wednesday who a Romanian newspaper reported is
wanted on charges of embezzling millions of dollars from a Romanian national
railway company.

The newspaper said Mihai Necolaiciuc has been living in a condominium in
downtown West Palm Beach for years.

Several days after The Palm Beach Post asked about Necolaiciuc, he was arrested
by U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agents.

A Romanian newspaper reported that Necolaiciuc, 57, is an international fugitive
who has been sought by Interpol since 2004. He is being investigated on charges
of embezzling 80 million euros between 2000 and 2004, which today would be worth
just over $111 million.

In Romania, he worked as the director general of the national railway company,
Caile Ferate Romane, or Romanian Railways.

Nicole Navas, spokeswoman for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement in South
Florida, said the only information she could provide Wednesday night was that
Necolaiciuc was arrested on charges of violating the U.S. Immigration and
Nationalization Act.

The Romanian newspaper Adevarul reported that since 2007 Necolaiciuc has been
living in Palm Beach County.

On Friday, officials with the U.S. Marshals Service said they did not have a
provisional warrant for Necolaiciuc, but that the process of getting warrants in
the United States for international fugitives is often lengthy. Officials with
Interpol's media offices in Paris and Washington said this week that Interpol
policy prevents them from discussing the specifics of any case.

The General Inspectorate of the Romanian Police has not responded to an e-mail
sent earlier this week seeking information about the case.

A check of Palm Beach County property records reveals that Necolaiciuc owns two
units in the CityPlace Tower condominium building. Each is worth more than
$400,000, according to property records.

Officials did not say where Necolaiciuc is being held.

~jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Necolaiciuc

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOSPITAL: PATIENT NEEDED TO GO HOME

BYLINE: By DAPHNE DURET Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: STUART


In record after record, doctors for a brain-damaged Guatemalan immigrant housed
at Martin Memorial Medical Center stressed that regressions in Luis Jimenez's
physical and mental health could perhaps be cured only by returning him to his
homeland.

The records and letters to and from attorney Michael Banks were the focus of the
beginning of the second week of the trial surrounding the hospital's deportation
of Jimenez, which resulted in a false imprisonment suit against the hospital
from Jimenez's guardian, Montejo Gaspar.

Banks, Gaspar's previous attorney, spent most of last week chronicling his
battles with hospital officials and Guatemalan consulate officials, who promised
Jimenez could receive free medical care if hospital officials sent him back
there.

But a short time after Martin Memorial officials chartered a plane and privately
deported Jimenez in 2003, he had been kicked out of two Guatemalan hospitals and
sent to live with his mother in a remote village.

On Monday, Banks faced tough cross examination from hospital attorney Scott
Michaud, who suggested Banks fought the hospital's efforts to deport Jimenez so
that Jimenez, an undocumented immigrant who had run up more than $1.5 million in
medical bills, would still be in the United States while other attorneys pursued
personal injury claims on his behalf. Michaud also asked Banks if he ever tried
to intervene after he heard Jimenez was having trouble with the Guatemalan
hospitals.

"If they had broken their promise to everyone, you never called them on it?"
Michaud asked.

"No," Banks replied.

Jimenez received severe brain and leg injuries in 2000 after a drunken driver
crashed into a car he was in. Hospital officials returned him to Guatemala based
on a judge's ruling that was later overturned.

~ daphne_duret@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PRIEST: BOY IN MURAL NOW A VERY GOOD MAN

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: PAHOKEE


In 1994, when Fredy Avellaneda was 12, he was an altar boy in St. Mary's Parish.

One day, he was helping to clean the church when an artist arrived to paint a
mural in the church hall. Part of the painting depicted the Virgin of Guadalupe,
the patroness of Mexico, who Catholics believe appeared to a campesino named
Juan Diego in 1531.

But first the artist needed someone to pose as the holy peasant.

"We were there with a group of kids, cleaning, and the artist chose Fredy," says
Avellaneda's mother, Mauricia, originally from Mexico, now living in Stuart. "He
was, in fact, a very good child. His face has been there ever since, even as he
has grown up."

The mural remains and has been seen by countless new immigrants who have come
through the church over the years. But Avellaneda himself soon may be gone from
Florida.

On July 16, he was among a group of undocumented workers traveling in a van on
his way to a job when he was picked up on U.S. 27 during a routine traffic stop
by Border Patrol agents. He is being held in the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's Broward Transitional Center in Pompano Beach, facing deportation.

"It's a shame," says St. Mary's pastor, the Rev. John Mericantante.

"You know, it's interesting that of all the kids there that day the artist chose
Fredy, because he really was a humble, good kid. And he has become a very good
young man -- no problems with the law or anyone else.

"He's the first of my Mexican kids I saw grow up who has been picked up by
immigration," the priest said. "This is a case where goodness has not been
rewarded."

His mother says the family arrived in Pahokee in 1992 when her son was 10.

"He graduated from Pahokee High School in 2001 with honors," she said. "He
wanted to go to college, but he couldn't because he doesn't have a Social
Security number. He still talks about going to college some day."

She said her son had worked many years making tiles for roofing, until the
building boom collapsed. Lately, he had worked clearing swampland near the
Everglades, she said. He was on his way there when he was detained.

She says Fredy, now 27, has not been in Mexico since he was 10.

"We come from Michoacan state, and much of the violence you hear about happening
in Mexico is happening there," his mother says. "We are very, very worried about
him."

His mother says that her other five children all live in Florida. The two
youngest were born in the United States.

Her husband, Emilio, who installed air conditioning insulation for years, also
lost his job because of the economic downturn and is temporarily picking crops
in Michigan. He, like she, is undocumented.

"Fredy has his grandparents in Mexico, but they are old and he hardly remembers
them," his mother says. "At this point he has no idea how to get from the border
to where they live."

Tim Keohane, managing attorney for Catholic Charities Immigration Service of
Palm Beach County, says there is a chance ICE will release Avellaneda on bond.
The fact that he has a clean record, was an honor student, has people like
Mericantante on his side and has two younger siblings who were born in the U.S.
and are citizens may help.

Keohane says immigration reforms pending in Washington also could help him stay
and eventually go to college.

Avellaneda's mother is doing everything she can as well.

She is praying to the lady in the mural -- the Virgin of Guadalupe -- for help.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by SARAH GRILEBRANDON KRUSE/Staff Photographer Mauricia
Avellaneda holds a picture of her son, Fredy, who's in the custody of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement after a routine traffic stop. As a boy,
Fredy Avellaneda was used as a model for a holy peasantin a mural depicting the
Virgin of Guadalupe at the St. Mary Catholic Church in Pahokee.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAWSUIT ALLEGES SHERIFF HOLDS IMMIGRANTS ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 502 words


Marcotulio Mendez has spent four months in the Palm Beach County jail on charges
of driving without a license and fleeing from police. And even though the
28-year-old father of four has friends willing to post his $3,000 bond, he's not
going to be leaving the jail anytime soon.

Shortly after his arrest, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement slapped a
hold on him for unspecified immigration violations.

The Guatemalan who has lived in West Palm Beach for 11 years has become a poster
child for immigrant groups, which last week filed a federal lawsuit against
Sheriff Ric Bradshaw claiming he is violating immigrants' constitutional rights
by keeping them in jail even though state judges have said they can be released
on bond.

"The bottom line is that all the evidence suggests that the sheriff is depriving
people of their liberty," said Daniel Cohen, an assistant public defender who
represents Mendez. "Government is prohibited from depriving people of their
liberty without a judicial order."

And, Cohen said, a hold from ICE isn't a judicial order. It's simply a notice
from a federal agency that there may have been a violation of immigration laws.

"It's like the former Soviet Union, summarily whisking people off the streets,
arresting them and putting them in jail with no way out," Cohen said. "It's
outrageous that this man has been kept in jail for four months."

Outrageous or not, it's not Bradshaw's fault, said attorney Fred Gelston, who
represents the sheriff's office.

"The sheriff isn't a law-maker," he said. "They need to challenge the
constitutionality of the federal regulation."

Bradshaw didn't refuse to accept Mendez's bond, he said. Jailers told Mendez's
friends that they shouldn't post it knowing they couldn't release him because he
was being detained by ICE. Further, his friends could lose their money if he is
ultimately deported.

"No good deed goes unpunished," he said of the advice given to those who want to
post bond for those being held by ICE.

The lawsuit is similar to one the American Civil Liberties Union filed in
California earlier this year.

In July, the ACLU of Florida sent a letter to law enforcement agencies
statewide, warning that jailing people based on federal immigration orders is
unlawful and could subject them to lawsuits.

Barry Silver, who filed the lawsuit on behalf of Mendez and three immigrant
rights groups, said he is hopeful the action sends a message to other Florida
sheriff's.

The El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center in Jupiter, the Florida Immigration
Coalition and Corn Maya Inc. joined the lawsuit because what they deem to be the
sheriff's policy forces them to waste limited resources fighting for the release
of clients they claim are being unfairly jailed.

In the meantime, Mendez's wife, Crisanta, said life has been hard since her
husband's arrest.

"Let me tell you that my children are taking it badly," she said. "We're
waiting. But God is great and God is just."

Staff writer Andrew Marra contributed to this story.

~jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Bradshaw

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 571 words


Legal immigration is costly, time-consuming

Reading all the letters regarding immigration, it becomes obvious that none
complaining have ever been there.

My wife and I have followed the rules. More than three years and $2,000 later,
the government isn't satisfied. They want more proof that our marriage is
"valid." Tax records, mortgage statements, bank statements, autos owned weren't
enough. They need work permit, travel permit, request for visa status change,
lift temporary status, etc. and all with fees. The most infuriating aspect is,
if she were Cuban, most fees would be waived and processing expedited. I guess
it's our glorious leaders' way of giving Castro the finger, but it's unfair to
everyone else.

I challenge all the angries out there to go to www.uscis.gov and see for
yourself how difficult it really is to get into this country. I am not surprised
there are so many illegals, because the government makes it so difficult and
expensive to enter legally -- unless you're Cuban.

C.H. WALLACE

Jupiter

Secessionist official misses lesson of life

I find it very confusing that Councilman William Diamond thinks the town of Palm
Beach should secede from Palm Beach County. What next, the U.S.A.?

Yes, some of us do pay taxes for things that we will never have a need for, but
that does not excuse us from helping our other residents. I never had a child in
the Palm Beach County school system, but I never questioned why I had to pay
taxes for the school system. There are many parks and playgrounds that I have
never even been to, but I still pay the taxes to build them and maintain them. I
am able to pay my doctor bills, but I do not begrudge paying into the county
health department for the programs it provides.

Life is not about receiving and giving in equal amounts. Life is about giving
when you are able and not looking for a pat on the back. Please, Mr. Diamond,
tell us you are not serious in your plan to secede. Look around you and see all
the beauty that is just outside your door and be thankful that you have the
means to enjoy.

PAT THORNE

Atlantis

Treating others well is what good people do

I am writing in response to the letter that stated "All other religions (other
than Christianity) have to submit to rules," and "Trust in Jesus as rescuer from
sin and death is the only way for eternity with God." Does he not see that his
second quote is a rule that must be obeyed in Christianity?

During seven years of Hebrew school, I heard, on one occasion only, talk of an
afterlife. We were told that all good people get the reward, although I do not
recall what that is. Being good is conditioned upon how well humans treat one
another. It has nothing to do with how one prays, to whom, or even if one prays
at all. It appears as though the God taught in Judaism is not egocentric and is
concerned only with humans getting along with one another.

MYREL SUSSMAN

Delray Beach

Cut fire-rescue salaries to meet shortfall

I noted the article on the proposed 17 percent increase in the fire-rescue tax
for Palm Beach County next year. It would seem that the proper way to address
this shortfall would be an appropriate cut for all those involved. It is my
understanding that most within this division receive high wages in relation to
the private sector. Should any of the present group quit over the lowered wage,
I suspect you would have a quick line at the door looking for those jobs.

CURTIS A. THOMPSON JR.

Belle Glade

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 456 words


Legal citizenship path strewn with obstacles

In the letter about the difficulties of immigrating legally, the writer's
comments were only a part of what one has to go through in the immigration
process, let alone citizenship.

My wife and I followed the regulations, filled out all the forms, paid all the
fees, and it all becomes very trying. Seven years ago, when I was living in the
Boston area, I went to pick up my wife at the airport, and she wasn't on the
plane, although she had been on the plane from Venezuela to Miami. My wife is a
college graduate, had a valid visa and passport, and at the age of 49, she was
detained at the Miami airport for six hours.

I called and got no information. An immigration official, who happened to be
from Panama and undoubtedly was a naturalized citizen, went through her
pocketbook, accused her of many things, including of working in this country
(never had) and that she was a liar. Of course, he told my wife "that if she
told the truth, he'd be able to help her."

With what one has to go through trying to do it right, and some of the
unscrupulous attorneys that get involved in taking immigrants' money, I do
understand why so many stay illegal.

KEN MAIN

Lake Worth

Government sacrifice essential in recession

As a homeowner and a business owner in Palm Beach County, I feel that our
elected officials are out of touch with what the general population is
experiencing. We all have had to make personal, professional and monetary
sacrifices, in order to get through this difficult period in our history.

Why are governments any different? They need to run like a business. If a
business has lower revenue, it has to lower expenses, not raise prices. Will
there be less service? Yes, of course. We all understand that. That is what
happens in recessions. Yet Palm Beach County raised taxes. The arrogance of some
of our leaders is infuriating to many, as these elected officials believe that
they know better than we do.

JOHN R. MATH

Jupiter

Be grateful we're using Soviet store of uranium

Recent letters have tried to criticize nuclear power, but in fact touched on one
of its great unrecognized benefits.

One writer expressed concern over the fact that some 90 percent of the uranium
we are now using as fuel is imported. In fact, the reason is strategic. About 10
percent of all the electricity we use is being fueled by nuclear materials that
were created to be used in the old Soviet Union's weapons. So our nuclear plants
are "eating" materials that otherwise would be rattling around in countries that
are highly unpredictable.

No one who lives in a coastal area like Florida should oppose our primary energy
source that does not add to global warming. We should be encouraging it.

DAVID SHOAF

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 507 words


Lake Worth candidates are anti-immigrant

In next Tuesday's Lake Worth election, three candidates are anti-immigration,
therefore anti-human rights. They have decided and have been very vocal that if
they win they will close the Lake Worth labor center. This will not only be a
step backward for the community in creating unity and harmony, but it will most
certainly be an invitation for a major lawsuit.

I have had the pleasure of meeting and hearing Scott Maxwell at an anti-
immigration meeting. I was not impressed with his stance. The words that I
recall clearly are "We need to make them feel unwelcomed so they leave." These
are not words of a leader who will promote growth or a sense of community.
Loretta Sharp and Wes Blackman are just as vocal and plan to divide the city of
Lake Worth.

BETZY REGA

Jupiter

Editor's note: Betzy Rega is a member of Reform Immigration for AMERICA and the
Florida Immigrant Coalition, and Director of Sunshine Artworks, a division of El
Sol Jupiter Neighborhood Resource Center.

Sharpton should focus on issues that matter

Rush Limbaugh being the partial owner of a football team would be of no
consequence to any of us, least of all Al Sharpton.

Al Sharpton calling anyone else a racist is like a murderer calling someone else
a criminal. His being a member of the Everglades Club does not make Mr. Limbaugh
or the club racist just because there are currently no black members. I am not a
member. Then again, I have never tried to join, but I do not believe that they
hate me.

Once again, Al Sharpton and his fellow bottom-feeder, Jesse Jackson, have
crawled out from under their rocks to grab some air time. Where were they when a
black criminal shot and killed a Winston-Salem, N.C., police officer last week
and critically wounded another? Where were they two weeks ago when a mob of
black criminals beat a black honors student to death in Chicago?

These are issues where Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, and many Americans should be
concerned, not about Rush Limbaugh's involvement in football.

DAVID NELSON

Jupiter

Sharpton is the one who owes an apology

Poor "Rev." Al Sharpton is offended by the remarks made by Rush Limbaugh. He
wants an apology or he is going to sue. Maybe Rush will apologize when the Rev.
Sharpton apologizes for his actions in the Tawana Brawley case. It's long
overdue.

CHARLES WITSCHGER

West Palm Beach

No laughing matter; change 'Post' comics

Among the best parts of the newspaper are the "funnies." As a matter of fact I
think that many children's first reading experience with a newspaper is the
comics. Reading the "funny" pages in The Post today has become a trial. They
have been shrunk to a size that's almost unreadable. I travel quite a lot and
get to read many other papers so I have been able to compare the sizes,
quantities of comics, and the number of pages. The Palm Beach Post's are smaller
and fewer. Most of the new comic strips aren't even funny. If there is one
improvement I'd like to see at The Palm Beach Post it would be larger and more
comic strips.

MARILYN RICH

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HISPANICS WELCOME CHANCE TO AIR CONCERNS WITH W. PALM

BYLINE: By ANDREW ABRAMSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


It was conceived as an event for 15, but 50 leaders from the Hispanic community
crammed into the Flagler Gallery at City Hall on Tuesday, eager to engage with
the city.

The summit on Hispanic issues provided an opportunity for a growing community to
present the city with a broad understanding of local and national currents
affecting them and to form a loose coalition of interests. Mayor Lois Frankel
invited them to spell out their cares and concerns.

"We're more than just Publix, Blockbuster and Home Depot," said Jose Rodriguez,
president of the Vedado Park Neighborhood Association, discussing the Hispanic
presence in the local employment scene. "We work in medicine, law and
government. We can create a stronger society, a stronger culture, that would be
better assimilated into the American culture."

The economy was the hottest topic, with leaders calling on the city to better
anticipate budgetary problems and focus on social services.

Immigration also was a major issue. The Rev. Alfredo Hernandez of St. Julianna
Catholic Church pushed for education opportunities for illegal immigrants.

"It is critical that so many young people, undocumented high school students,
have the possibility for higher education," Hernandez said.

Attorney Aileen Josephs spoke of a need for comprehensive immigration reform and
said there are immigrants in the area whose constitutional rights have been
violated by police.

"Immigrants live in fear," she said.

One participant said the city needs a Hispanic commissioner to better serve the
community.

After the meeting, Frankel said, "These are ideas that need to be shared.
There's a need for political leaders to be seriously engaged."

~ andrew_abramson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 30, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAXWELL ALIGNS HIMSELF WITH QUESTIONABLE GROUPS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 446 words


It disturbs me that The Palm Beach Post would endorse a candidate such as Scott
Maxwell for city commissioner in Lake Worth. He has aligned himself with
anti-immigration organizations such as the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR). I find these organizations to not only be anti-American but
dangerous. Lake Worth is a city of tolerance and diversity containing residents
of many races and ethnic backgrounds. An individual such as Mr. Maxwell, who
clings to the beliefs of these groups, cannot be capable of representing Lake
Worth. I believe The Post erred in its judgment and should consider retracting
its endorsement of this individual.

VICTORIA PEARSON

Lake Worth

Mayoral candidate Varela has done little more than talk in Lake Worth

Last year, Rene Varela was supported by grass-roots activists. This year,
grass-roots activists will have nothing to do with him. I heard Dr. Varela
present one position on immigration to a Haitian audience and a different
position to a white neighborhood association audience.

Who is Dr. Varela? He bills himself as a professional environmentalist. So why
did the Sierra Club endorse Laurence McNamara? Dr. Varela writes that he
advocates for animal welfare. Yet he appears in the documentary film The Dolphin
Dealer, using his veterinary skills to identify pregnant, wild dolphins who have
been captured so that their young will be birthed into captivity and exploited
for commerce.

Voters need to look closely at the candidates' records. Dr. Varela has done
nothing in Lake Worth except talk. Voters who are enamored with him should ask
themselves why he is really running for public office.

ANNABETH KARSON

Lake Worth

Give Varela an opportunity toshow what he can do as mayor

I have spent over 25 years in military service throughout the world and have
seen more than my share of ugliness. Most of this was created by radical
politicians and their followers -- first in Europe, then in Asia and this week
in Lake Worth.

On Sunday, I went to the candidates' forum. I realize that not all of Lake
Worth's politicians have "real jobs." Rene Varela, candidate for mayor, is a
breath of fresh air. He is young, educated, a professional, has a business and
owns a home in Lake Worth. He has pledged himself to community service. This is
the type of person our Founding Fathers had in mind when they formed our
government.

Throughout the evening, Dr. Varela was criticized by radical protesters, some
wearing shirts and holding signs for his opponents. They did not attack his
platform for leading the city. They attacked his business, his profession and
his livelihood. This was wrong.

JOHN A. SHANAHAN

Lt. Col., U.S. Army (Ret.)

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 654 words


Why extend tolerance to lawbreakers?

It was disturbing to read that Scott Maxwell was being attacked for telling the
truth about the effects of illegal immigration on Lake Worth, where I used to
live. It is neither anti-American nor dangerous to say that lawbreakers should
not be the recipients of city funds while neighborhoods deteriorate, violent and
petty crime escalates and streets and sidewalks crumble for lack of maintenance.

Lake Worth, like the U.S. generally, is a tolerant and diverse place, but
tolerance assumes respect for the law of the land, which enables diverse people
to live in harmony. It is Orwellian to denigrate people as anti-American because
they expect the law to apply equally to all races and ethnic groups, while those
who support the lawbreakers clothe themselves in a specious moral superiority
and demand that the law be applied unequally to a particular group.

Would-be immigrants are encouraged to enter the country and remain illegally by
people who often have an ax to grind, whether by profiting from cheap immigrant
labor or by furthering their own radical social agenda, neither of which should
be paid for by Lake Worth or its taxpayers.

D. CORDES

Palm Beach

Most pols had some dolphin impact

As to the impact on the Lake Worth mayoral race of dolphin lives, consider:

William Coakley, one of the unsuccessful candidates, owns and uses large
quantities of audiovisual equipment. How much of it was made by the Japanese,
those notorious dolphin-killers? John Jordan, another candidate who didn't make
the runoff, has a laundry. Does it produce runoff, and does it go into the lake,
now once again dolphin habitat? As a Realtor, Loretta Sharpe also has been a
part of the development-environmental destruction complex for years, which
probably has done more to destroy dolphin and manatee habitat in South Florida
than anything else.

Finally, as food servers, did Laurence McNamara or Javier del Sol serve tuna,
and, if so, was it "dolphin safe"?

JIM KELLY

Lake Worth

Varela mustn't side-step dolphin issue

Nothing says Florida like a Protect Wild Dolphins license plate, arguably the
most iconic plate since 1999. Palm Beach County residents were the top
purchasers of the Protect Wild Dolphins plate in 2008. Furthermore, the Protect
Wild Dolphins plate was the top environmental license plate purchased by 80,797
Florida residents in 2008.

These specialty plate purchases generated $1.6 million to study, research and
protect wild dolphins. Florida does care about what happens beyond the water's
edge, and Rene Varela's role in working for Ocean Embassy, a company involved in
capturing dolphins for public display, conflicts with Florida's efforts to
protect wild dolphins.

I believe that The Palm Beach Post made a drastic mistake in endorsing Dr.
Varela for mayor of Lake Worth. As a candidate, Dr. Varela has attempted to
side-step the issue, and if he is not willing to be upfront about his role with
Ocean Embassy, how can we expect him to be upfront, open and transparent about
governmental issues in a county that is already rocked by multiple political
scandals?

SUZANNE MULVEHILL

Lake Worth

Editor's note: Suzanne Mulvehill is a Lake Worth city commissioner.

Rene Varela and Laurence McNamara will compete in a runoff for mayor on Nov. 17.

Immigrants need plan B as hate grows

The growing xenophobia against new immigrants that is brewing in Lake Worth and
around the nation finally touched our home this week when, during a Lake Worth
candidate forum, I heard a candidate refer to Native Americans as "Indians."

All this hate made me realize that it is time for all of "us" new immigrants to
begin thinking about a "plan B." The sad reality is that no country wants to
embrace our "new immigrants" because they happen to be brown and also have
Native American features. As my late uncle, who happened to be a graduate of
MIT, used to say, "History repeats itself."

LUIS FERNANDO TAMAYO

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: The Lake Worth election

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PULPITS VS. PEWS ON ILLEGALS ;
 Religion and the immigration debate.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 662 words


America's religious leaders often have found themselves at odds with their
congregations when moral issues turn political. We've seen the divide over civil
rights, abortion, capital punishment and torture. We're seeing it again over
immigration reform.

Many religious leaders view immigration as a moral issue because the system has
created an underclass of people who are vulnerable to social injustice. Slavery
and human trafficking are among the worst examples of the immorality this policy
has produced. The world's richest country runs its economy on the backs of an
exploited caste that cannot participate in the democratic experience that
America is supposed to exemplify.

It's easy for religious leaders to find moral grounds to demand that the country
change. It's going to be harder for them to convince their flocks, however,
according to a recent Zogby Poll that the Center for Immigration Studies
commissioned. The center believes in "fewer immigrants but a warmer welcome for
those admitted."

The poll found that most of the faithful disagree with the immigration positions
of their spiritual leaders. Only 11 percent of Catholics, 18 percent of
mainstream Protestants, 9 percent of evangelical Protestants and 21 percent of
Jews favored loosening current policy to allow more legal immigration -- a
position that most religious leaders support. By roughly 3-to-1 margins, members
of congregations want tougher enforcement and fewer foreign workers allowed into
the country.

By the same wide margins, the faithful choose tougher enforcement and,
presumably, deportation over a conditioned pathway to legal status or
citizenship for the millions of illegal immigrants already here. Most religious
leaders would allow illegal immigrants to remain if they satisfied requirements
such as clearing background checks, paying fines and learning English.

To paraphrase the attitudes reflected in the polling, there are plenty of
Americans to fill the unskilled jobs that immigrants have, and the greater the
decline in the U.S. immigrant population, the better. Leading rabbis, bishops
and ministers generally disagree. So does the general population.

When pollsters question Americans without regard for their religious
affiliations, the results have consistently indicated majority support for some
pathway to legal status for illegal immigrants, as well as acknowledgment that
native Americans just won't take certain jobs, even during deep recessions. In
April, a Washington Post/ABC News poll found that 61 percent of all Americans
supported comprehensive reform, which includes giving illegal immigrants a
chance to stay. When you question people leaving a church or synagogue, the
response swings 20 points the other way.

The divides between the pulpit and the pew and the secular nation are nothing
new. In May, the Pew Research Center found that a majority of Americans who
attended religious services regularly believed that torturing suspected
terrorists could be justified. But a majority of Americans who never or seldom
attended services disagreed, and so do most religious leaders.

The Catholic Church has held to the ideologically consistent positions of
opposing abortion and opposing the death penalty, but has had trouble getting
the faithful to come along, especially when it comes to capital punishment. An
extensive Gallup Poll five years ago found that 66 percent of practicing
Catholics supported the death penalty.

Catholic bishops are seeing a similar disconnect with immigration. Church
leaders have led the movement for fair treatment of immigrants and ending the
social injustice and criminal behavior the system has fostered.

If history tells us anything about religious Americans, it's that they do come
to accept -- if not embrace -- the positions of their spiritual leaders. There's
no reason to believe that immigration reform will be different.

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EL SOL DOCUMENTARY TO SHOW BOTH SIDES OF IMMIGRATION ;
 Producer hopes Americans and Guatemalans can learn from each other'sstruggles.

BYLINE: By BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


While making a documentary film in Jacaltenango, Guatemala, producer Charles
Thompson was surprised to see three young men walking down the street wearing
T-shirts with "Jupiter, Florida" across the front.

"They told me that's where their fathers were working. That's what sparked my
interest," said Thompson, 53, education director for the Center for Documentary
Studies at Duke University in North Carolina.

The result is a 58-minute film about the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center
scheduled to debut Jan. 14 at Florida Atlantic University. Opened in 2006 at the
southwest corner of Military Trail and Indiantown Road, El Sol started as a
meeting center for local employers and migrant workers.

The nonprofit organization now holds education classes, health clinics, art
shows and other events that are open to the public. El Sol has about 100
volunteers and an annual budget of about $200,000, which comes from donations
and grants. About 125 people find jobs daily, said El Sol President Jill Hanson.

Called Brother Towns, the film's goal is to show viewers in each country both
sides of immigration. Many Guatemalans do not understand the difficulties their
family members endure once they arrive in America. And many Americans do not
understand the loss when a family member leaves his native home, Thompson said.

"I'm trying to humanize a very polarized issue," Thompson said. He hopes the
film will be picked up for national distribution.

Jupiter resident John Parsons, an El Sol opponent, was interviewed by the
filmmakers at one of the regular protests against El Sol. Media coverage has
been biased in favor of El Sol, he said.

"I'm hoping the film shows all sides of the issue," Parsons said.

The economic slump has sent many Guatemalan workers back to their homes in
Central America. Those still here survive on money being sent from their
families in Guatemala, said Tim Steigenga, an El Sol board member.

"Many Guatemalans sold land to send a family member here. The families are
sending back the money until things pick up," Steigenga said.

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com Showtimes for 'Brother Towns'

FAU Eissey Campus, AD Auditorium, 5353 Parkside Drive, Jupiter, 7:15 p.m., Jan.
14 (561) 799-8610

El Sol, 106 Military Trail, Jupiter, 7 p.m., Jan. 15 (561) 745-9860

St. Peter Catholic Church, 1701 Indian Creek Parkway, Jupiter, 1:45 p.m., Jan.
17 (561) 575-0837

Admission free to all three events.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CRACKDOWN AIMS AT THOSE WHO ROB IMMIGRANTS ;
 A $500,000 federal grant is paying for a two-year education andenforcement
program.

BYLINE: By WILLIE HOWARD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Criminals often target Guatemalans and other immigrants because they tend to
carry cash and have traditionally been reluctant to report crimes.

The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office hopes to change that.

The sheriff's office recently won a two-year, $500,000 grant from the U.S.
Justice Department that will be used to educate the city's immigrants about
crime and more vigorously prosecute gang members and other criminals who prey on
them.

"The suspects know if they wait it out long enough the victims won't show up for
the prosecution," said Capt. Rolando Silva, commander of the sheriff's District
14 office, which covers Lake Worth. "It's a huge injustice."

By March, the sheriff's office plans to hire a community liaison, a
non-uniformed, bilingual civilian who will be charged with reaching out to the
city's undocumented immigrants -- those who might be reluctant to talk to
uniformed deputies for fear of deportation.

The sheriff's office also plans to hire a robbery detective who will follow up
on crimes against immigrants in two target areas -- one in the heart of the
city, another between Congress Avenue and Military Trail.

The goal -- catching and prosecuting those who prey on immigrants -- should
reduce crime overall in greater Lake Worth, Silva said. "These suspects don't
exclusively target these types of victims," he said. "Putting away these
offenders helps reduce other crimes."

Guatemalans often don't open bank accounts because they're afraid of being
documented by the banks, said Ruth Doran, executive director of the
Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth. Criminals know that.

Immigrants also tend to engage in behaviors that make them easy targets.

Some linger on street corners looking for work. They also spend time socializing
on the streets in small groups at night.

The sheriff's office liaison is expected to teach immigrants how to avoid
becoming victims and that they can report crimes in several languages without
fear of being deported.

To raise awareness about crime, the sheriff's office plans to hold monthly
meetings at churches, the Lake Worth Resource Center and other places that help
immigrants. The liaison also will track down victims when they're needed to
testify in court.

Lake Worth Commissioner Cara Jennings, an immigrant rights advocate, said she is
glad the sheriff's office will be taking a more aggressive approach. She
recalled attending the funeral of a Mayan man, the relative of a friend, who was
shot and killed at Second Avenue South and F Street.

Lt. David Moss said the multi-pronged approach is a moral issue as much as a
legal one.

"It hits home when you see them in the hospital disfigured for life when they're
just trying to make life better for their families back home," Moss said.

Lynn University researchers will measure the effectiveness of the initiative
using crime statistics and resident surveys about the safety of neighborhoods.
If it's effective, Silva said, the Lake Worth program could become a model for
other cities.

~willie_howard@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 262 words


Students' trek noble, but illegal is illegal

I read with interest The Palm Beach Post article titled "Immigration activists
begin 1,500-mile trek" from Miami to Washington DC. The alleged goal is to
"...raise support for legislation that would include a path to citizenship for
eligible illegal immigrants."

One can empathize with these young people who have seen friends "...picked up
and deported." My immediate reaction was, however, what is it that these young
people do not understand about the word illegal?

My father and mother were born in Finland. They applied for citizenship, waited
their turn and became proud, productive Americans.

What these young people must understand is that we have both visa and
immigration laws. You either live by these laws or you are deported. It is as
simple as that. Anything else would be a slap in the face to the millions who
waited their turns and followed the rules.

CLARENCE R. RYDBERG

Jupiter

Attacking Carter won't solve Mideast's issues

The students of Saul Alinsky's class for character assassination continue to
attack former President Jimmy Carter, who has greater knowledge and hands-on
experience of the Middle East than 99percent of this country's citizens.

Is Mr. Carter anti-Israel? That remains to be seen. Disagreeing with some
policies and actions does not make him so. It is easy to promote disagreement
regarding the area, since religion is paramount. However, it is probably good
for another few thousand years, providing that the radicals on both sides do not
destroy it or mankind in the meantime.

O. JOHNSON

Atlantis

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS SEIZE 2-YEAR-OLD HAITIAN GIRL SEEKING MEDICAL TREATMENT

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA FRANK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 274 words


A 2-year-old Haitian girl who was traveling to the United States for medical
treatment was seized by immigration officials Saturday at Palm Beach
International Airport.

Mishna Prezille, who was flown from an orphanage outside Port-au-Prince on a
private plane, was supposed to be placed in the care of Stephen Badolato, a
doctor from Melbourne.

A doctor in Michigan performed surgery last year on Mishna, who was born with
clubfeet, and she was traveling to Florida for follow-up care, Badolato said.

He said that Mishna's medical visa, which was used when she traveled to the U.S.
last year, had not expired but that immigration officials said it was valid for
only one trip.

Federal immigration officials temporarily placed Mishna in Boys Town in Miami.

"I'm just trying to get this little girl to my house so we can begin treatment,"
Badolato said.

Marci Gonzalez, a reporter for WPTV-Channel 5 in West Palm Beach, was on the
private plane that brought the 2-year-old to the U.S. Gonzalez, who was in Haiti
as part of a team of volunteers, declined comment on the incident.

Former U.S. Rep. Mark Foley heard about the situation and said he was
immediately moved to take action. He alerted staff members in U.S. Sen. George
LeMieux's office to see whether they could help Mishna get the medical attention
she needs.

"There is no question the child should not spend another day in the custody of
Boys Town," Foley said Wednesday. "It's just going to take someone looking at
this case and signing off on it."

Some good news has come out of the situation, Badolato said. He knows of several
families who would like to adopt Mishna.

~ samantha_frank@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PRESENTATIONS TO BRIEF HAITIANS ON HOW TO SEEK PROTECTED STATUS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 209 words


Federal immigration authorities are planning three presentations in Palm Beach
County, beginning today, for Haitian nationals seeking temporary protected
status after last week's earthquake.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services expects as many as 200,000
undocumented Haitian immigrants to apply for the newly opened federal program
nationwide, officials said Wednesday in Miami.

Temporary protected status allows Haitian immigrants who were in the U.S. when
the earthquake hit Port-au-Prince on Jan. 12 to stay here and work for up to 18
months. It is reserved for select groups of migrants from countries in turmoil
after natural disasters or civil unrest.

Any Haitians who make their way here after the earthquake will be sent back, the
U.S. government has warned.

Of the anticipated 200,000 applicants, as many as 68,000 could come from South
Florida, USCIS Director Alejandro Mayorkas said in Miami.

The Obama administration approved the temporary protected status program last
week to help Haiti recover from the earthquake.

Immigration officials said they plan to "fast-track" work visas for newly
protected Haitians in hopes they will get jobs and begin sending money back
home.

The Miami Herald contributed to this story.

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DEVASTATION IN HAITI Federal officials to visit three sites
Representatives from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will offer
information about the application process and distribute paperwork at these
locations, according to the state DCF office in Palm Beach County: 4 p.m. today,
Toussaint L'Ouverture High School, 1325 Gateway Blvd., Boynton Beach. 12:30 p.m.
Sunday, Eglise Chretienne Haitienne of Palm Beach, 300 N. Jog Road, West Palm
Beach. 10 a.m. Jan. 31, Church by the Faith, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
and Congress Avenue, Riviera Beach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS GRANTED PROTECTED STATUS FACE TOUGH JOB HUNT ;
 Advocates welcome the decision despite the possible challenges.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 610 words


Undocumented Haitians granted temporary protected status under the federal
government's new immigration program will emerge from the fringes of society
into an already strained Florida job market, state officials said.

Even so, Haitian activists who spent years fighting for temporary protected
status were optimistic Thursday. It was the first day Haitians could apply for
the new government program, launched after a magnitude 7.0 earthquake devastated
parts of Haiti, killed an estimated 200,000 people and left as many as 1.5
million homeless.

As tens of thousands of Haitians prepare to enter the workforce legally for the
first time, Florida's unemployment rate was holding at 11.5 percent, a 35-year
high, and expected to get worse, said the legislature's chief economist, Amy
Baker. Joblessness was especially high for unskilled workers without college
degrees.

"The timing is unfortunate," said Baker, who on Wednesday warned the state
Senate's Ways and Means Committee that Florida still was in the grips of
recession. "But we know, we're predicting, that this is the bottom, so things
will improve from here."

Haitian leaders said the new federal immigration program was a victory tempered
with sadness at what had to happen to their country before the U.S. extended the
program to Haitians, who long have suffered from poverty and a weak central
government.

"Before what happened last week, Haiti already definitely qualified for TPS,"
said Lesly Jacques, founder of Radio Haiti and a member of the Palm Beach
County's Haitian Coalition for Temporary Protected Status. "By granting TPS, the
people here will be able to have a life."

Gerard Latortue, who was interim prime minister of Haiti between 2004 and 2006
before returning to suburban Boca Raton, praised the government's decision.

"We have been fighting for it for a long time," Latortue said. "I think we
should recognize it was not an easy decision to make."

Temporary protected status is a government program reserved for immigrants from
countries in turmoil after disasters or civil unrest. It allows migrants to live
and work legally in the United States for 18 months.

Haitian applicants are encouraged to fill out forms downloaded from the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services Web site and mail them to the government.
They will then go to a local immigration office for fingerprinting and a
photograph.

After an FBI background check, immigration officials make a ruling. Applicants
convicted of a felony or two misdemeanors are ineligible for the protected
status, as are any undocumented Haitians who made their way to America after the
Jan. 12 earthquake.

As many as 200,000 undocumented Haitians were expected to apply for the program
nationwide, including about 68,000 in Florida, said USCIS spokeswoman Sharon
Scheidhauer.

In Miami on Wednesday, USCIS Director Alejandro Mayorkas said his agency would
"fast-track" Haitian applications, so that immigrants previously terrified of
deportation could come forward, start working and send money home to aid the
battered country.

But those Haitians approved for TPS might instead struggle to find work, said
Pat Canaan of the Palm Beach County Workforce Alliance.

"It won't be easy for the Haitian population even with the TPS exception to
secure employment," Canaan said. "It's just not easy for anybody to find a job
right now."

Latortue, the former prime minister, said he has faith in his people's spirit.

"Many of those Haitians, they do have the capacity sometimes to create their own
enterprise," Latortue said. "The Haitians are very good entrepreneurs."

Staff writer Jeff Ostrowski contributed to this story.

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DEVASTATION IN HAITI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ORPHAN STILL HELD AS FEDS DETERMINEHER STATUS ;
 Officials are concerned with custody rights, Foley says.

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA FRANK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 546 words


A 2-year-old Haitian girl, who survived last week's earthquake only to be taken
away crying by federal immigration officials at Palm Beach International Airport
on Saturday, remains in federal custody while government officials sort through
paperwork.

Mishna Prezilus, who was flown from an orphanage outside Port-au-Prince on a
private plane with two Florida reporters, was traveling to the United States for
medical treatment and was supposed to be placed in the temporary care of Stephen
Badolato, a doctor from Melbourne. Instead, she was detained at the airport for
more than nine hours before she was placed in Children's Village in Miami, which
works with the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement to provide services for
unaccompanied, undocumented immigrant children.

Kenneth Wolfe, a spokesman for the U.S. Administration for Children and
Families, which oversees the Office of Refugee Resettlement, confirmed Friday
that Mishna is in the custody of the federal agency.

A Michigan doctor performed surgery in August on Mishna, who was born with
clubfeet, and she was traveling to Florida for follow-up care, Badolato said.

Marci Gonzalez, a reporter for WPTV-Channel 5 in West Palm Beach, was with
Mishna while she was detained at the airport. Gonzalez traveled to Haiti after
the earthquake with Air Mobile Ministries, a Titusville-based nonprofit that
does disaster relief work. The group camped out every night at Ruuska Village,
the orphanage where Mishna had been turned over by her mother not long before
the Jan. 12 earthquake that devastated Haiti's capital city.

The director of the orphanage told the group about Mishna's condition and
assured them that the girl had a valid visa, Gonzalez said.

"We became so close," Gonzalez said. "She wouldn't leave my arms the entire
day."

When it was time for Mishna to be taken to Children's Village, the toddler
screamed and cried, Gonzalez said. She said during the whole ordeal, the
immigration officers went out of their way to make her and Mishna comfortable.

"They were just trying to do their jobs," Gonzalez said. "They wanted to make
sure it wasn't a kidnapping."

Badolato said that Mishna's medical visa, which was used when she traveled to
the U.S. last year, had not expired, but that immigration officials said it was
valid for only one trip.

Former U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, who has been working with state officials to get
Mishna's case resolved, said the issue was not her visa, but rather, who has
custody of her.

"Because Mishna was brought into Florida on a private plane without a parent or
legal guardian, there was cause for concern," he said in a written statement.

Still, it came as a shock to the group with Mishna when they were detained at
the airport.

"It was a pretty strange night," said John Torres, a reporter for Florida Today
in Melbourne, who was part of the group. He was there as a reporter covering Air
Mobile Ministries' work, as he had done after the 2004 tsunami in Indonesia and
Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in 2005.

Assuming the paperwork shows that Mishna should be in the temporary custody of
Badolato, what happens to the orphan after she receives medical care is
uncertain. But Badolato said he knows of several families in the U.S. that would
like to adopt her.

~samantha_frank@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LET HAITIANS HELP REBUILD ;
 Those would be the millions in the U.S.

BYLINE: Dan Moffet

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 659 words


Most Americans probably think that the U.S. government is Haiti's largest
benefactor, and has sent more aid to the country each year than anyone in the
world.

In fact, the community of Haitians living abroad is Haiti's greatest donor. Last
year, those Haitians sent back roughly $1.5 billion in remittances to their
homeland, which is about five times what the United States government donated in
foreign aid.

Most of those remittances -- roughly 70 percent, according to recent research
from the World Bank -- does come from the United States, where close to 2million
people of Haitian descent live. About 530,000 of them are immigrants who were
born in Haiti.

As the international community converges to help Haiti recover from its
disastrous earthquake, it's at least some solace that the largest segment of the
nation's economy is up, running and unscathed. The remittances make up close to
one-quarter of Haiti's gross domestic product, and now that the national banking
system is back online, money from around the world again will be flowing
directly to people who desperately need it.

The Obama administration helped sustain the flow of U.S. dollars by finally
granting temporary protected status to Haitian illegal immigrants. The move
suspends deportation proceedings against 30,000 people and protects an estimated
175,000 other undocumented Haitians. The U.S. extends TPS because of war,
natural disaster or political upheaval. Besides Haiti, nationals from Honduras,
El Salvador, Nicaragua, Sudan and Somalia have the status. President Obama had
balked at TPS for Haitians, largely because of concerns that it could touch off
an exodus of refugees. He also hoped that efforts to rebuild the country, led by
Bill Clinton, the United Nations special envoy, might gain traction.

The president also ignored bipartisan support for TPS in Congress because of his
plans to push immigration reform this year and deal with the Haitian problem in
the legislation. The earthquake made immediate action on TPS unavoidable. But
even some of the president's strongest supporters believe that the four tropical
storms Haiti endured in 2008 made the case for TPS long ago and that the Obama
administration has behaved too much like its predecessor.

"It is an announcement that is not only much needed but long overdue," U.S. Rep.
Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, said. "I am continuing a lifelong fight to end double
standard immigration practices for Haitian migrants. I and others have been
actively engaged in calling for TPS of Haitian nationals for years, and have
continuously called upon current and previous administrations to address this
matter."

Rep. Hastings has been one of the most vocal critics of a U.S. policy that
allows Cuban migrants who reach American soil to stay here permanently but
returns Haitians almost without exception. Essentially, the argument is that
Cubans deserve asylum because they are political refugees, and Haitians don't
because they are economic refugees.

For Haiti to repair itself, however, it will need a partner in the U.S. that
takes a new perspective. American policy needs a revision that gives more weight
to today's humanitarian factors and less to political grudges left over from the
Cold War.

With TPS, tens of thousands of Haitians will be able to get jobs and keep them.
They will be able to send parts of their paychecks back to Haiti and participate
in a very long and very expensive recovery. Federal officials are expecting as
many as 200,000 Haitians to apply for the 18-month status. Applicants must pay
$470 in fees and cannot seek permanent residency or citizenship. The
administration may waive the fees, and should do it to help jump-start
remittances.

While TPS doesn't come close to solving Haiti's problems, it could be the start
of the new relationship with Americans that the country needs to move forward.

Dan Moffett is a former member of the Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOCAL LAWMAKERS SEEK HAITI STRATEGY ;
 The state needs a 'czar' to coordinate, they say.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Worried about an influx of Haitian immigrants into South Florida's already
crowded schools and hospitals, state lawmakers from the region are banding
together to figure out how to help the state, and the victims, better cope with
the aftermath of the earthquake.

Newly elected state Rep. Mack Bernard, D-West Palm Beach, one of only three
Haitian-born legislators, is heading Palm Beach County's effort through a
legislative task force created Tuesday night at a meeting of lawmakers from
Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties.

A lack of communication among state, federal and international agencies and aid
organizations is creating stumbling blocks to responding to the ravages of the
natural disaster, said Bernard, who traveled to his homeland last week.

Gov. Charlie Crist should appoint a "Haiti czar" to oversee the state's relief
efforts, which Bernard suggests could create business opportunities in Florida.

On the night after the disaster, Crist contacted Bernard, whose sister and
sister's children have been living in the streets since their home was
destroyed, but Bernard said he has not heard from the governor since.

"It's that lack of communication, especially from the governor's office" that is
frustrating representatives from the tri-county area, which has the state's
largest Haitian immigrant population and is on the front line providing aid to
Haiti, Bernard said.

He said his office and those of fellow Haitian-American Reps. Yolly Roberson,
D-Miami, and Ronald Brise, D-North Miami, have been barraged by calls and
e-mails from constituents seeking family members, as well as local officials
worried about what's in store.

Crist administration officials, including Department of Children and Families
Secretary George Sheldon, say Florida will not be inundated by Haitian
immigrants. But Bernard, raised in Delray Beach after leaving Haiti at age 10,
predicts a massive influx.

The task force is likely to include 12 lawmakers, four from each county.

Florida officials believe they are covered on some issues, like Medicaid
expenses. Sheldon said U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius assured him she would ask Congress to pick up the state's tab
for all such expenses for treating Haitian victims.

But other questions remain, Bernard said. What will happen to children in the
U.S. whose parents' visas expire? What will the state do about the possible
hundreds of thousands of orphans?

"This task force can be a catalyst to address different issues," Bernard said.

It also could help Florida businesses get contracts with the Haitian government
and aid organizations for cleanup and rebuilding.

"We want guidance from the governor's office because this could be a
job-creation effort for Florida," he said.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 407 words


U.S. discrimination worse than entry laws

To those like the letter-writer who criticized new immigrants, my parents waited
their turn. I and my sister and brothers did, too. As an American immigrant of
Guatemalan descent, I do not feel slapped in the face because of the method that
allowed me to live here.

The immigration system is not as simple as the writer claimed. Cubans have the
"wet foot, dry foot" method, the Haitians finally have been given temporary
protected status, which they desperately need. In Guatemala and other Central
American countries, people have been persecuted and killed because of their
Indian heritage.

What does slap me in the face, and hard, is the way this country allows families
to be separated (American-born children) and allows human beings to die in
detention, the way our country mistreats people because they are not from
Finland, and they have brown skin. The discrimination infuriates me, and it
should infuriate all Americans. We set the standards for the world, and we are
failing on immigration reform.

BETZY S. REGA

Jupiter

Parenting, discipline, vouchers keys to reform

Two foundational fixes for our schools are supportive parenting -- of one's
children, their teachers and the school -- and discipline, neither of which is
mentioned in The Post's editorial about education in Florida.

Imagine the savings if we didn't need school police officers. Then there is the
time spent teaching life skills because parents are not teaching even the basics
to their children. No wonder dropouts abound and those who do graduate often are
ill-equipped for life beyond high school.

Our public schools are just as bloated and sick as our federal government. Let's
refresh, renew and give opportunity to all with vouchers. We would have smaller
schools fostering individualized attention and specialized learning situations.
Competition through vouchers would provide increased choice for all and back us
away from the "one-size-fits-all" of the current system.

DAWNE STANTON NOCK

North Palm Beach

Editor's note: Dawne Stanton Nock is a former high school teacher.

Palin a patriot; let her blast away at Obama

Sarah Palin went to the National Tea Party Convention ("Palin blasts Obama,"
Feb. 7). She is an inspiration. She enjoys shooting animals and condemning our
evil government. I'm glad our selfless Sarah is still committed to liberty and
justice for all real Americans. Patriotism lives.

F. JOHN RUSSELL

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A SAD, BUT FAIR, CONCLUSION ;
 Hospital pays $40,000 to Guatemalan it sent home.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 431 words


The $40,000 Luis Alberto Jimenez received from a Treasure Coast hospital was as
fair an ending as can be expected to a legal saga that highlighted woefully
inadequate immigration and health care policies in the United States.

In 2000, a drunken driver sent Mr. Jimenez to Martin Memorial Medical Center,
where the brain-damaged immigrant got $1.5 million in care for which the
hospital got little reimbursement. Mr. Jimenez was undocumented and had no
health insurance. In 2003, Martin Memorial, with a judge's permission, sent him
home to Guatemala. His legal guardian challenged the ruling, setting the stage
for a seven-year legal battle.

The 4th District Court of Appeal overturned the judge's decision, ruling that it
amounted to an unauthorized deportation. That decision, however, didn't change
Mr. Jimenez's situation. He was already in Guatemala, where two hospitals had
kicked him out because he couldn't pay for his care.

The case raised several questions aside from the deportation issue. Mr. Jimenez
stayed at Martin Memorial far longer than he needed to because the hospital had
nowhere to send him. Like all providers that receive Medicare and Medicaid
payments, the hospital can, under federal guidelines, discharge patients only to
a facility that will provide the next level of appropriate care. For Mr.
Jimenez, who had been in a coma for 15 months and who has been left with the IQ
of a 10-year-old, the next level was rehabilitation. Had he been a U.S. citizen
or legal immigrant, he would have been eligible for Medicaid-covered care in a
rehabilitation facility.

Federal law requires that hospitals treat all emergencies regardless of a
person's ability to pay or immigration status. Only Washington can address how
hospitals should handle undocumented patients such as Mr. Jimenez when they no
longer require acute care but lack the means to pay for further treatment.

Last year, a jury determined that Martin Memorial treated Mr. Jimenez fairly.
His family appealed their decision. Last month, hospital officials decided to
give Mr. Jimenez, who receives virtually no medical care in his Guatemalan
village where his elderly mother is his sole caretaker, the money they would
have spent continuing the litigation. Jack Scarola, the lawyer representing Mr.
Jimenez's family, rightly described the decision as a humanitarian gesture. The
family agreed not to pursue the case any further.

Mr. Scarola said his firm took the case to bring national attention to the
issues it raised. That effort was successful. Now Congress must bring national
action to resolve those issues.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 12, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 481 words


Self-reliant Karzai fails to notice U.S. troops

There he goes again. ("White House welcome off for Karzai," April 7).

"Afghanistan will be fixed when its people trust that their president is
independent and not a puppet." This comes from the caped commander, Afghan
President Hamid Karzai.

This "independent" president has not noticed 100,000 foreign soldiers who are
prepared to die to protect his country's "sovereignty."

If Mr. Karzai does not want to be a puppet, he needs to cut his strings.

F. JOHN RUSSELL

West Palm Beach

Illegal immigrants hurt our medical facilities

Regarding your editorial and "Talk Back!" item concerning the payment by Martin
Memorial of $40,000 to Luis Alberto Jimenez ("A sad, but fair, conclusion,"
April 2): The simplest response is that as an illegal immigrant, he got much
more than he deserved.

As you have pointed out, if this case has the effect of getting the attention of
our legislators, it may be worth the expenditures involved. However, when
considering the number of free-care cases involving such undocumented people, we
must acknowledge the burden placed upon the medical facilities and the legal
citizens who must pay for not only their own care but for that given to people
who don't even belong in our country.

MICHAEL ELLISER

Stuart

So FPL customers pay more no matter what?

Re: "FPL: Monthly bills could go up" from The Post's April 1 Business section:

From the way I read this article, state mandated energy conservation goals are
not going to cost FPL but the consumers. The customers will pay to meet those
goals in one or two ways.

1. If we (the customer) spend the money for solar water heaters, updated A/C
systems, etc., we can get "rebates" of some kind. FPL will bill these back to
the customers as a "cost recovery" charge.

2. If customers widely participate in these and more, some quite expensive,
updates and reduce energy usage (conservation), FPL will have to raise "base
rates" to recover the lost revenue.

God forbid that FPL's profits should be touched. Where is FPL's cost in these
energy conservation goals? Somebody please tell me I am wrong or have
misinterpreted this.

NANCY PLEGER

Hobe Sound

Feds should urge China to pay drywall damages

The federal government has recommended that those homes with the defective
Chinese drywall completely remove it and even replace some of the electrical and
plumbing systems. Where is our government when we need it? Where was the
inspection and regulation? Where is the outrage?

Our government should be pushing China to pay for these costs. It is unlikely
that these beleaguered homeowners can do it themselves. Why do we rescue banks
and insurance companies but not stand up for our citizens in time of need?

ROBERT M. SPITZLER

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: A federal judge ruled Thursday that a Chinese company is liable
in seven Virginia cases. Whether the plaintiffs can collect is uncertain.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

S. FLORIDA LATINOS FEAR RACIAL PROFILING IMMIGRATION DEBATE

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1012 words


Call it "Arizona fever."

It is a condition characterized by a fear that law enforcement officers will
target you just because of the color of your skin and demand proof of
citizenship, even if you have committed no offense.

The fever has spread among Latinos across the country since April 23, when
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed a law requiring local officers to stop and
question people because they suspect those individuals are in the country
illegally.

Federal agents have that mandate, but no state had ever given all local officers
within its borders that duty.

The fever of concern has reached South Florida.

"Yes, everyone is talking about it," says Camilo Yepes, 21, from Colombia, a
student at Palm Beach State College. "And, yes, people are worried. We know here
in Florida we could be only one state bill away from becoming another Arizona."

By week's end, that seemed extremely unlikely. Even Marco Rubio, Florida's
Republican U.S. Senate hopeful and a darling of the nation's conservatives,
spoke against it, saying Latinos here legally could be unfairly targeted.

But immigrant advocates in South Florida say that even without a change in
Florida law, they are seeing involvement by local law enforcement officers in
immigration-related detentions. They say some of the incidents amount to racial
profiling.

"What we have here isn't quite as bad as Arizona right now," says attorney Jill
Hanson of the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "But some of
what has happened here isn't good."

Isabel Vinent, also of the coalition, agrees.

"We don't like what we are seeing in Arizona," she says. "But we really don't
like what is happening in Palm Beach County, either."

What is happening in the county is that many local businesses employ
undocumented workers. Federal law enforcement authorities are expected to
enforce immigration law. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents say
they concentrate on people who commit crimes and are dangers to the community.
What results is a system that leaves most undocumented people in place and
working.

Overzealous officers?

But eventually, sometimes after years of living and raising families in South
Florida, some of those individuals have incidental contact with local law
enforcement officers -- often during traffic stops. Sometimes they escape with
warnings or fines, but in other cases they end up being detained and deported.
Immigrant advocates feel that in those cases officers are often being
overzealous.

"They are supposed to be protecting the community and instead they become
involved in immigration enforcement," Hanson says.

Other immigrants then become afraid of local police, she says, and don't report
crimes.

She cited various recent cases, including two in Palm Beach Gardens:

* According to the coalition, in March 2009 a U.S. citizen was stopped by a
police officer and accused of making an illegal turn. After verifying the
driver's documents, the officer also asked for the documents of three Latino
passengers.

The three were undocumented. The Border Patrol was summoned, they were detained
and two were later deported. The third man is challenging his removal order.

"The police officer should not have questioned and detained the driver and
passengers about their immigration status," says Rebecca Sharpless of the
University of Miami School of Law's Immigration Clinic, which represents the
man. "By enforcing civil immigration law, the officer exceeded the scope of his
authority."

* On April 25, a married couple from Guatemala had dropped off their two
children at school and were involved in a multi-car fender bender. The woman was
driving and did not cause the accident, Hanson said. But she presented what Palm
Beach Gardens police said was a false Guatemalan driver's license.

Her husband was also asked for his papers and was detained. Both were turned
over to the Border Patrol.

Palm Beach Gardens Police Chief Stephen Stepp strenuously denies that racial
profiling was involved.

"We monitor that very closely to make sure it doesn't go on," he said.

Stepp also said the Association of Chiefs of Police of Palm Beach County has
taken a stand against any increased involvement in immigration enforcement.

"We do not detain or arrest anyone solely because they are illegal," he said.
"I'm sure we could detain multiple people per day if that were the case."

Many U.S. law enforcement leaders and organizations agree with immigrant
advocates that involvement in immigration enforcement can hinder local
crime-fighting. Stepp concurs.

But he said if an undocumented person is encountered during a traffic stop or a
crime investigation, that is a different matter.

Stepp could not comment on the 2009 case but defended the handling of the April
25 incident. He said that the moment the woman presented false identification,
she was in violation of the law.

"And if she is presenting false ID, then you have to wonder what she and anyone
else in the vehicle might be up to," Stepp says. "So other people in the vehicle
have their documents checked."

Fake papers easy to get

This again illustrates the collision between law enforcement and South Florida's
economic realities. Many employers, knowing that workers are undocumented, still
require them to present Social Security cards and federal identification
documents, know as "green cards."

Workers can buy counterfeit versions easily in the county.

Also, many of them need to drive to reach work but can't get valid Florida
driver licenses. Some drive with no license. For a U.S. citizen, the result
would probably be a fine. For undocumented immigrants, it can be deportation and
cataclysmic results for entire families.

Immigrant advocates tell undocumented workers that they have a better chance of
going free if they simply don't present an ID, instead of handing over false
documents.

One South Florida federal immigration agent, who asked not to be identified, put
it this way:

"People who don't have the proper documents should not be at or even near any
place where law-breaking is going on. That's the best way."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE More inside In Lake Worth:Immigrant advocates gather
at vigil. 10A In Arizona:17 suspected illegal immigrants capturedafterdeputy is
attacked.10A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AN IMMIGRANTS' ARCHBISHOP

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 647 words


Immigrants in South Florida have offered prayers of thanks the past two weeks
after learning that Pope Benedict XVI had appointed the Rev. Thomas Wenski
archbishop of Miami.

The Vatican couldn't have given them a more passionate and outspoken advocate
than the 59-year-old cleric, the son of a Polish immigrant who grew up in Lake
Worth and rose to become one of the church's most influential voices for social
justice.

Bishop Wenski, who has been bishop of the Orlando diocese, is an old-school
activist who earlier might have stood with picketing longshoremen or organized
boycotts of discriminatory bus systems. He is also an old-school shepherd who
opposes abortion rights, same-sex marriage and the ordination of women.

It was fitting that Bishop Wenski spent the weekend before the announcement of
his promotion leading a prayer vigil for tomato pickers who are trying to
persuade Publix Super Markets to accept a plan for higher wages. "Bishop Wenski
has a long history of promoting dignity and justice for Florida's migrant
workers," says Brigitte Gynther, a member of Interfaith Action of Southwest
Florida, who helped organize the three-day march from Tampa to Lakeland, the
Publix corporate headquarters.

That long history goes back more than 30 years to the Little Haiti neighborhoods
of Miami, where as a young priest Bishop Wenski persuaded the diocese to start
its first Haitian parish. He learned Creole to minister to Haitian immigrants
there, and also can speak fluent Spanish to reach the farmworkers of Immokalee.

"He is passionate and dedicated about issues plaguing the immigrant communities
of South Florida," says Marisol Zequeira, a Stuart immigration attorney and
longtime friend. "He was instrumental in the creation of the Catholic Charities
Legal Services Program in Miami that has helped thousands of immigrants --
legal, illegal and quasi-legal."

Bishop Wenski seems to enjoy calling out politicians when it comes to
immigration reform. During the 2008 presidential campaign, he publicly chastised
candidates from both parties for not making immigration part of the debate and
ducking questions on reform. He has testified before Congress and urged the
government to end deportations that split family members. He has advocated for
expansion of asylum and for the DREAM Act, a proposal in Congress that would
allow children of illegal immigrants to attend college and gain permanent
residency.

Bishop Wenski used his position as a leader in the church's political hierarchy
to take on Democrats and Republicans for "ignoring an immigration system that is
broken and in need of reform." In 2004, he criticized the Bush White House for
obsessing over border control and not supporting a path to permanent residency
for illegal immigrants in the country. Last year, he criticized the Obama White
House for advancing stem-cell research and abortion rights while ignoring
immigration reform.

Bishop Wenski has written volumes on how the church and the country have grown
together and grown stronger because of immigration. He points to the life of St.
Paul, "a migrant by vocation who understood the hardships of migrants and the
importance of taking the gospel to the most diverse populations."

Ethnic and cultural differences, he says, define America as the nation of
immigrants it has always been. "This diversity, far from dividing us has
enriched us tremendously, both as a nation as well as a community of believers."
And he says it doesn't matter that waves of migrants come from the south now,
instead of from Europe a century ago.

"When it comes to this issue, the guy passionately believes it is our spiritual
duty to welcome the strangers among us," Ms. Zequeira says. "If there was ever a
true advocate for immigrants within the Catholic Church, Wenski is it."

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS FACE DEADLINE FOR PROTECTED STATUS

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Special to The Palm Beach Post

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 900 words


Roger Jele didn't know what it felt like to be free -- really free -- until now.

He spent his life in Haiti hiding from men who wanted to kill him and his life
in America hiding from officers who wanted to deport him.

But Jeleis hiding no more.

He's one of the thousands of Haitians in the UnitedStateswho have received
temporary protected status since the earthquake in Haiti. And for those who
haven't yet applied, immigration officials warn the deadline is fast
approaching.

Haitians who were in the country on or before Jan. 12 have just a little more
than two months left to apply for the status, which gives Haitians without
immigration papers the right to be in the U.S. temporarily.

If they don't apply and are then arrested, they will besent back to Haiti.

But if they do applyandare approved, as Jele was, then they too can feel free.

"Before, immigration could take you. When you see a cop, you don't let the cop
see you. So you stay at home. You're hungry, you're sick, but you can't do
nothing," said Jele, 40, of Boynton Beach. "Now you can get everything. I am
very happy."

The federal government's decision to allow temporary protected status for
Haitians is opening up a whole new world for people like Jele, who traveled by
boat from Haiti to sneak onto South Florida's beaches, in search of their
American dream. Now he can work, he can drive and he can do something as simple
as take a walk down the street without constantly having to look over his
shoulder.

More than 48,000 Haitians across the country have applied for TPS so far,
according to numbers released by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services on
Monday.

The status was granted just days after January's magnitude 7.0 earthquake near
the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince that killed hundreds of thousands and left
even more homeless.

Jele lost 21 family members that day, including his mother, sister and brother.

Of the tens of thousands who have applied for TPS nationwide, nearly 31,000 are
from Florida, including more than 6,300 in Palm Beach County who are waiting for
appointments with USCIS. The office in Royal Palm Beach is one of the top three
busiest in the state in terms of processing TPS applications.

This new world for Haitians is one where they no longer worry of being forced to
return to a country that offered very little, even before the devastating
earthquake. And now that the country is more broken than ever, few Haitians in
America want to go back.

For now, they don't have to.

Applications trickling in

Jele is one of 7,007 Floridians who have received TPS and one of 22,297 who have
received work authorization cards as of Monday. It can take up to 90 days to
receive word on whether TPS is granted, said Sharon Scheidhauer, USCIS
spokeswoman, and typically work authorization cards are granted before TPS is
granted.

Though the applications continue to arrive and USCIS continues to offer public
meetings on how to fill out the lengthy papers, some believe there should be
even more applications flooding in. In January, USCIS estimated that up to
200,000 Haitians in the U.S. are eligible for protected status.

So why aren't more people applying?

"It's hard to speculate," Scheidhauer said. "This is a great benefit for people
who are eligible. We are allowing you to stay in this country, to work, to live
100 percent legally."

When TPS became available to Haitians, the federal government announced it would
allow those who qualify to live in the U.S. for 18 months. Some Haitians believe
that the 18 months starts once you are granted the status, but it really started
the day the announcement was made.

"They think that by waiting until the end they could stretch it out a little
bit, but that's not the case," Scheidhauer said. "The clock started ticking on
Day One."

They have until July 20 to turn in the forms.

At the Youth Co-Op office in Palm Springs, a resettlement agency that helps
refugees in South Florida, Sharol Lewin said she believes people are still
afraid to come out of hiding for fear of being deported. And others aren't
applying, she said, because they don't understand the process or they don't have
the money.

It costs anywhere from $130 to $470 to apply, depending on which forms are
needed.

Many nonprofit agencies, like Youth Co-Op, are offering free legal help and
USCIS is allowing requests for fee waivers.

Scammers spread rumors

But Haitians are being warned to look out for scam artists who are charging as
much as $1,000 to fill out the TPS forms.

"The paperwork is so intense, the people are willing to pay it because they're
desperate," Lewin said. "It's the first time they've been able to do something
legal."

Judy Cineas, a Boynton Beach life coach who is also Haitian, joined a
grass-roots effort at Toussaint L'Ouverture High School in Boynton Beach to help
locals fill out the applications.

Cineas said the group helped more than 300 people for free, but that even then,
those who were hoping to make a buck from the desperate were spreading rumors
about the free help.

"Somebody started rumors that we were filling out the forms wrong and they
scared people," Cineas said. "Our last day was not well attended at all." Who is
eligible?

Haitians living in the U.S. illegally on or before Jan.12 can remain here and
obtain work authorization until July 22, 2011. Those with felonies orat least
two misdemeanors, or those who entered the U.S. after Jan.12, are not eligible
for TPS.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  2010 file photo by DAMON HIGGINS Residents flocked to Toussaint
L'Ouverture High School in Boynton Beach on Jan. 21 to hear federal officials
explain how to fill out an application for temporary protected status.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WAS CALDERON RIGHT? SÍ

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 646 words


Mexican presidents who visit Washington are expected to show up on time for the
photo ops, dress appropriately for the state dinner, and then flash a warm,
neighborly smile as they board the plane to leave.

They aren't supposed to behave the way Felipe Calderon did last week when he
addressed a joint session of Congress.

The Mexican president told U.S. lawmakers that they must ban automatic weapons,
and he called Arizona's new immigration law a "terrible idea" that undermines
civil rights. As annoying as anything, he talked past his audience of lawmakers
and spoke directly to the more than 7 million Mexican illegal immigrants living
in the United States:

"I want to say to the migrants -- all those who are really working hard for this
great country -- that we admire them, we miss them (and) we're working hard for
their rights."

Well, sir, this did not sit well with many lawmakers, particularly Arizona's two
Republican senators, John McCain and Jon Kyl. They complained that President
Calderon had no business commenting on U.S. domestic affairs, let alone meddling
in them. The response was another example of the hypocritical lack of
understanding that distorts U.S. policy toward our southern neighbor. When you
share a 2,000-mile unsecured border with a country, its domestic issues become
your domestic issues, and vice versa.

President Calderon has every right to complain about U.S. gun laws because 80
percent of the illegal guns in his country are smuggled in from this country.
Drug violence in Mexico has claimed about 23,000 lives over the past four years,
most of the murders by illegal weapons. The U.S. government is spending $1
billion on the Merida Initiative, a four-year plan to train and equip Mexican
law enforcement to battle the cartels, yet U.S. lawmakers aren't serious about
stopping the flow of firepower to some of the most dangerous criminals in the
hemisphere.

And who can blame President Calderon for criticizing the Arizona law? For
decades, Americans have scolded Mexico for human rights violations and
overreaching police tactics. Mexicans were told that the United States was the
model for civil liberties and due process. But the Arizona law, even the revised
version, is something an authoritarian Mexican government could have written
several decades ago.

Congress misses the paradox in President Calderon's view from the south. He sees
U.S. businesses recruiting and depending on illegal workers, while some
Americans vilify Mexican migrants for being here.

Americans are as complicit in our immigration problems as we are in the drug
smuggling across the border. The U.S. demand for workers and cocaine sustains
the market for illegal trafficking. But it's easier just to blame Mexico than to
change behavior in U.S. cities and businesses.

President Calderon actually pulled his punches. He could have lectured Congress
on hypocrisy in environmental issues. For decades, the U.S. has complained about
pollution in Mexico -- how the air was awful in Mexico City, and how Mexican
farmers and factories were ruining the waters the two countries shared. There
were also complaints about inept and corrupt Mexican regulators.

President Calderon didn't hear much of that on his trip to Washington, in the
oily wake of the BP disaster. As it turns out, U.S. regulators were inept and
probably corrupt, and some of the oil could be drifting toward the Yucatan
before long.

About 10 percent of the U.S. population, roughly 30 million people, are of
Mexican descent, and President Calderon is a voice for many of them. What he
said to Congress was: Let's be more candid with each other, let's see each
other's point of view, and let's work together to solve our common problems,
because that's the only way we'll solve them.

What's wrong with that?

Nada.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

18 immigrants come ashore on Palm Beach

BYLINE: By SONJA ISGER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: Eighteen men and women


five from Haiti and 13 who appear to be from the People's Republic of China --
are in custody after coming ashore on Palm Beach before sunrise Wednesday, said
U.S. Border Patrol officials.

They walked up onto the beach near the Sloan's Curve Condominium at 2000 S.
Ocean Blvd. where security staff witnessed their arrival on security cameras and
called authorities, Palm Beach Police Capt. Jeff Trylch said.

They were carrying bags and gathered in a vacant lot on the west side of A1A
when police found them, Trylch said.

It appears they were brought to shore illegally in a 24-foot boat that washed
ashore after taking on water. Authorities were searching for whoever piloted the
boat Wednesday. It is registered to Rolando Herrara Vega of Miami, Trylch said.

The 18 were processed at Border Patrol offices in Riviera Beach. Their ages had
not been determined immediately, but there were no young children in the group,
said U.S. Border Patrol Agent in Charge John Modlin.

Trylch added that the 13 Asians included five females and eight males, many of
whom appeared to be young adults.

While Asian migrants have not recently been caught trying to illegally come
ashore in South Florida, it is not the first time it has happened. In 1996, for
example, in one week police intercepted two boats near Pompano Beach suspected
of smuggling groups of seven and four Chinese migrants, respectively, into the
U.S. from the Bahamas.

~sonja_isger@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Enlightened compassion ;
 Immigrants, U.S. better off if they stay.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 647 words


The United States is almost always at the front of the line sending aid to
countries that are suffering from natural disasters.

But often, Americans can help a lot without writing a check, packing supplies or
sending volunteers. Immigration policy can be an important asset in the arsenal
of humanitarian relief, and it is neither costly nor complicated to implement.

After an earthquake struck Haiti in January, Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano announced that the government was granting Temporary Protected Status
to Haitian nationals living in the U.S. The TPS designation allows immigrants to
stay and work without penalty for a specified period because their homeland is
too damaged or disrupted to handle their return.

After Hurricane Mitch hit Central America in 1999, the United States gave TPS to
immigrants from El Salvador, Nicaragua and Honduras, and has approved a number
of extensions that have kept it in force today. Somalia and Sudan have TPS today
because of civil war and rampant internal violence. Because TPS applies only to
immigrants in the country on a specified date, it does not encourage new waves
of refugees.

According to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the response to TPS for
Haitians has been strong. About 52,000 have applied for the status, and the
government expects 70,000 applications by the July 20 deadline. The approval
rate is about 89 percent, according to a government spokeswoman, and most of the
rejections are due to improperly completed forms. More than half the applicants
are from Florida, and most are also seeking work permits.

Lisa Wilson, director of the Lake Worth Resource Center, says that about 50
Haitians have applied for TPS with the help of the center. "We've seen people we
helped apply come back to us now as job seekers after they received their TPS,"
Ms. Wilson says. "The center helps a diverse group of people, not just Latin
Americans, as many people believe. I think Haitians are getting more comfortable
now coming to us."

The low comfort level among Haitians appears to have limited TPS applications,
perhaps by as much as half from earlier projects. Government officials and
immigration advocates report that some Haitians are reluctant to come forward
because they fear deportation or reprisals because of their illegal status. But
shortly after the earthquake, the Obama administration ceased all deportations
of Haitians, including 30,000 with orders to leave and those held in detention.

Still, people who come from Haiti have seen more than enough there to justify a
deep distrust of government, no matter how genuine the outreach might be here.

Haitian immigrants should consider that it's in the United States' interest to
offer them TPS. Of course, it relieves stress in Haiti, where the U.S. has
accepted much of the burden of recovery. And Haitians who are working here are
sending remittances back home that will help the rebuilding, too.

Often overlooked, however, is how much Haitian workers contribute to the U.S.
economy, particularly in Florida. Haitians still fill many of the low-wage
service jobs in restaurants and hotels that American workers won't take, even
during recessions. The Haitian population is a vital part of South Florida's
tourism industry; TPS will strengthen that relationship.

The United States should also grant TPS to Guatemalan nationals for many of the
same reasons. Last month, Tropical Storm Agatha hit Guatemala, killed at least
172 people and caused an estimated $500 million in damage. South Florida has a
large Guatemalan population that works, pays taxes and sends money home.

The Guatemalan government has asked the Obama administration to grant Temporary
Protected Status to its people, and there is no legitimate reason for the United
States to say no.

Dan Moffett is a former member of The Post Editorial Board. His e-mail address
is moff1013@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

34 Cuban immigrants come ashore in Ocean Ridge

BYLINE: By BILL DiPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: OCEAN RIDGE


Thirty-four people, some who told police they left Cuba three days ago in a
28-foot twin-engine boat, were taken into custody about 4 a.m. Sunday after they
came ashore just south of the Boynton Inlet.

All people in the group -- 16 men, 13 women and five males under 18 -- were in
good health. All said they were Cuban citizens, said John Dair, a supervisor
with the U.S. Border Patrol.

"Some are telling us they were on the boat three days. Others say longer. They
could have been let off a vessel and come ashore. It seems they are being
deceptive," said John Solek, another supervisor with the Border Patrol.

All 34 were in custody at immigration processing centers in Riviera Beach and
Dania Beach, and Border Patrol has the boat, which was driven onto the beach.

Unless the immigrants are found to have criminal charges pending against them,
they are expected to be released on their own recognizance in accordance with
the Cuban Readjustment Act, Dair said.

Passed in 1966 and amended in 1995, the law, also known as the "wet foot/dry
foot" policy, states that a Cuban found at sea is returned to Cuba. A Cuban who
makes it to U.S. soil can stay and apply for citizenship.

Not since December 2008 has such a large number of immigrants come ashore in
Palm Beach County.

"That they made that three-day adventure without help seems highly unlikely,"
Solek said. "We are still investigating."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

Recent incidents

June 10, 2010: Eighteen men and women came ashore at Sloan's Curve in Palm
Beach.

May 14, 2009: Ten Haitians drowned, including an infant, and 17 were rescued in
the Caribbean Sea. They were brought to the Coast Guard's Lake WorthInlet
station.

Dec. 26, 2008: Thirty-three Cubans came ashore in Boynton Beach.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jobless benefits extension fails; House might try again today

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 467 words


WASHINGTON

With Republicans citing concerns about the growing national debt, the House
rejected a bill Tuesday to extend unemployment benefits for people who have been
out of work for long stretches.

Area Democrats Alcee Hastings, Ron Klein and Ted Deutch voted to extend
benefits, while Republican Tom Rooney voted against the proposal.

The House, however, is expected to vote on the bill again as early as today. And
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid filed a motion Tuesday evening to force a vote
by Thursday to extend the benefits.

Without an extension, payments would continue to phase out for more than 200,000
people a week. The last extension expired at the end of May.

House Democrats said more than 1 million people have already lost benefits.
Congressional Democrats have been trying for weeks to pass the extension as part
of a larger tax and spending package.

MIAMI

Immigration records available to police

Law enforcement officers throughout Florida now can access U.S. immigration
records to check the fingerprints of immigrants in their custody, officials said
Tuesday.

The system is part of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's "Secure Communities"
program to improve and modernize the identification and removal of illegal
immigrants who have been convicted of crimes in the United States.

Including Florida, 23 states now participate in the program. The agency plans to
make the system available nationwide by 2013.

CHICAGO

Farrakhan: Jews have 'anti-black behavior'

Nation of Islam Minister Louis Farrakhan has written Jewish organizations
nationwide accusing Jews of hurting blacks and seeking what he calls "repair of
my people from the damage."

Farrakhan has long floated conspiracy theories and made accusations about Jews
but the June 24 letter directly addressing Jewish groups is rare for the leader
of the Chicago-based movement.

Farrakhan accuses the groups of what he calls "an undeniable record of Jewish
anti-black behavior" and says a research team studied works of Jewish scholars
to support those claims.

The Anti-Defamation League on Tuesday accused Farrakhan of "obsessive"
anti-Semitism.

AROUND THE WORLD

Also Tuesday ...

Haiti election date set: Haitian President Rene Preval set Nov. 28 as the date
voters will choose his successor as leader of the earthquake-shattered Caribbean
nation.

13 killed in Iraq: A series of bombings and shootings around Iraq claimed 13
lives, including four policemen, an Iraqi army general and a 9-year-old girl,
Iraqi officials said.

Thousands protest in Greece: Public services in Greece ground to a halt, and
transportation was disrupted as thousands of workers joined a general strike,
the fifth this year, to protest deeply unpopular spending cuts that the
debt-ridden government has promised its international creditors.

-- Palm Beach Post wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR WORLD AT A GLANCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sheriff's liaison shows immigrants how they can help stop criminals

BYLINE: WILLIE HOWARD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Pg. 4N

LENGTH: 389 words


Benito Gaspar has an important job.

As the community outreach liaison for the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
District 14 headquarters in Lake Worth, Gaspar communicates with immigrants and
shares information that helps them avoid becoming victims of crime.

Born in Guatemala, Gaspar, 32, traveled across the border to California at age 3
and has since become a naturalized citizen. His job is to bridge the gap between
Central American culture and that of the streets of Lake Worth, where criminals
prey on immigrants and the victims, fearing deportation, are reluctant to report
crimes.

Gaspar speaks three languages -- English, Spanish and Kanjobal, a Mayan
language. He holds bachelor's degrees in public administration and criminal
justice and a master's degree in juvenile justice, all from the University of
Central Florida.

He was hired through a two-year, $500,000 grant the sheriff's office received
from the U.S. Department of Justice.

Gaspar, who started his job in April, speaks to immigrants at the Lake Worth
Resource Center and has met with members of the clergy and business owners in
the grant target area. He teaches residents about laws on domestic violence, how
to avoid being robbed and how to look for descriptive details about criminals
that will help deputies catch them.

While meeting with immigrants on the streets of Lake Worth, Gaspar often
encounters people who have been victims of crimes but have not reported them.

A recent case involved a woman who was robbed after selling her belongings to a
pawn shop to raise money for a sick brother. The woman who snatched her purse
was caught after the victim described the thief to deputies.

"We're able to prevent future crimes by catching the perpetrators," Gaspar said.
"That's through education."

What are your hobbies?

'Running and spending time with my family.'

If you could switch jobs with anyone, who would it be?

'President Obama.'

What event changed your life the most?

'Crossing the border with my family.'

What's your favorite childhood memory?

'Christmas 1985. My father sent $5 to each of his children.'

If you were stranded on a desert island and could only have three things, what
would they be?

'My iPhone, a drawing book and a picture of my family.'

What event in history would you like to have witnessed?

'The "I have a dream" speech by Martin Luther King.'Q&A

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MEET YOUR NEIGHBOR: Benito Gaspar, 32  Central Palm Beach County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Community's American shear fight song in 'O Canada

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 469 words


It's time we address a serious immigration issue here in Florida.

I'm talking, of course, about the Canadians, and their fondness for singing
their national anthem.

We don't have this problem with our immigrants from the south, who are too busy
hot-tarring our roofs, cleaning our toilets and picking our vegetables to be
singing OGuatemala.

But the Canadian border jumpers are another issue. They have lots of time on
their hands, and they get nostalgic for their homeland, even when it's so
freaking cold in Canada that they have to get 1,500 miles away just to thaw out.

If you don't believe me, talk to Clint Van Tassell, who is the head of the
activities board at a mobile home park in North Port on Florida's west coast.

Van Tassell took the bold step of trying to do something to stop the singing of
OCanada in his community.

"We have 65 Canadians out of 970 homes," Van Tassell said.

Dueling national anthems

And as is the custom at dances in the mobile home park, the band wraps up the
evening with a patriotic flourish. The Americans ask for The Star-Spangled
Banner and the Canadian transplants ask for OCanada. So the band would do both
songs.

The problem, Van Tassell said, was that some of the Americans would complain
that they didn't want to hear the Canadian anthem.

So Van Tassell's board came up with a new policy.

"All it says is that if a dance band is going to have a patriotic ending we are
requesting, not ordering, that instead of doing The Star-Spangled Banner and
OCanada, they just do America the Beautiful," Van Tassell said.

"We thought this would be a compromise," he said.

As you might imagine, it just made everybody upset. The Canadians got the
message; that this was just a way to snub them. And Americans got huffy about
not being able to sing their national anthem in Florida, which is still
technically part of the United States.

To make things even crazier, all this Canadian vs. American patriotic
showmanship was happening at the Spanish-named La Casa Mobile Home Park. (Yes,
we are one Santeria-goat-sacrifice-in-the-parking-lot away from a Carl Hiaasen
novel.)

"This is getting blown way out of proportion," Van Tassell said. "I have to live
with people here. We're probably going to have another meeting and say that
nobody can do any patriotic songs."

Border-straddling alternative

I've got a better solution. Come up with a single song that soothes the
patriotic yearnings of all the park residents. Suggestion: North America the
Beautiful.

The song could have alternating U.S. and Canada verses. A Canada verse might go
something like this:

Oh, beautiful. For snowy skies,

for syrup's amber stain.

For perfect Mounties majesty,

above the Arctic plain.

North America, North America.

Good hockey's on TV.

And cure thy ills

with cheaper pills

from sea to shining Celine.

~ frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Bino's Blogaroni  See past columns, blogs and Twitter feeds.
PalmBeachPost.com/go/cerabino

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

METRO REPORT

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 488 words


TRAFFIC

Approximately 32 vehicles were involved in separate accidents in the Hobe Sound
area Friday evening, but there were no serious injuries, according to the
Florida Highway Patrol. The crashes did, however, cause multiple roadblocks. FHP
said there was heavy rain in the area. The accidents began at about 5:30 p.m. on
northbound Interstate 95 near Hobe Sound and drivers were directed to exit the
highway at Indiantown Road. Troopers still were working six crash incidents
Friday night, according to the FHP website.

POLICE BLOTTER

MANALAPAN -- According to the U.S. Border Patrol and Protection, at least seven
Haitian immigrants came ashore in Manalapan Thursday night. The immigrants,
including two children, were dropped off around 7:30 p.m. They were evaluated at
Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach and released in good health, said
John Dair, a Border Patrol supervisor. They were processed at the Border Patrol
station in Riviera Beach and are expected to be detained, he said. Smuggling is
believed to be involved, Dair said, but the suspect remains at large and the
vessel carrying the immigrants has not been found. Palm Beach County sheriff's
deputies, Manalapan police and Border Patrol agents found no other immigrants
after searching for up to a dozen near the 700 block of South Ocean Boulevard.

PALM BEACH GARDENS -- A man in-line skating on Northlake Boulevard early Friday
died after being hit by two cars, Palm Beach Gardens police said. David
McKeehan, 22, of Palm Beach Gardens, was first hit by a car driven by Leeroy
Joseph, 20, of Royal Palm Beach just before 1 a.m., police said, after McKeehan
crossed the street outside a crosswalk. While Joseph pulled over and ran to help
the skater, police said McKeehan was hit again by a second driver who is
unidentified and did not stop. McKeehan was taken to St. Mary's Medical Center,
where he died. Anyone with information should call traffic crash investigator
Jeff Main at the Palm Beach Gardens Police Department (561) 799-4445.

BRIEFLY

WEST PALM BEACH --The American Cancer Society's Relevo por la Vida, "Relay for
Life" for the Spanish community, has been relocated from Forest Hill High School
to Mariachi Supermarket, 1337 N. Dixie Highway, at 7 p.m. Saturday. The location
was changed because the Palm Beach County School District discovered that
vandals removed electrical wiring at the high school's football field, which has
prevented the lights from working properly. A Survivor Dinner at Don Ramon
Restaurant, 7101 S. Dixie Highway, precedes the outdoor relay at 5:30 p.m. For
information, call (561) 628-9458.

SCHOOLS

Florida Atlantic University's Center for Ocean Energy Technology in Dania Beach
has been designated the nation's third center for ocean energy research and
development by the U.S. Energy Department, which has pledged an initial $250,000
toward the university's efforts. FAU joins centers in Hawaii and the Pacific
Northwest.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT Weather, traffic, breaking news and special reports
PalmBeachPost.com/Local

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justice Dept. threatens to sue Ariz. sheriff over civil rights probe

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 400 words


A federal investigation of a controversial Arizona sheriff known for tough
immigration enforcement has intensified in recent days, escalating the conflict
between the Obama administration and officials in the border state.

Justice Department officials in Washington have issued a rare threat to sue
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio if he didn't cooperate by Tuesday with their
investigation into whether he discriminates against Hispanics. The civil rights
probe is one of two targeting the man who calls himself "America's Toughest
Sheriff" -- a federal grand jury in Phoenix is examining whether Arpaio has used
his power to investigate and intimidate political opponents and whether his
office misappropriated government funds, sources said.

The standoff comes just weeks after the Justice Department sued Arizona and Gov.
Jan Brewer over the state's new immigration law, heightening tensions over the
issue ahead of November's midterm elections.

GALT, IOWA

Salmonella outbreak sparks egg recall

An Iowa egg producer is recalling 228 million eggs after being linked to an
outbreak of salmonella poisoning.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said eggs from Wright
County Egg in Galt, Iowa, were linked to several illnesses in Colorado,
California and Minnesota.

The eggs were distributed around the country and packaged under the names
Lucerne, Albertson, Mountain Dairy, Ralph's, Boomsma's, Sunshine, Hillandale,
Trafficanda, Farm Fresh, Shoreland, Lund, Dutch Farms and Kemp.

BIG RAPIDS, MICH.

Protester's pie stunt nets $250,000 bond

An anti-war protester accused of hitting Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman Carl Levin in the face with an apple pie during a constituent meeting
in northern Michigan was jailed on a $250,000 bond.

Ahlam M. Mohsen, 22, of Coldwater, Mich., was arraigned Tuesday on a felony
count of stalking and other charges.

The attack happened Monday at a restaurant in Big Rapids, 150 miles northwest of
Detroit.

ICELAND

Lawyer: Chess icon didn't father child

A lawyer in Iceland says DNA tests show that chess master Bobby Fischer was not
the father of a 9-year-old girl from the Philippines.

Fischer's remains were exhumed in July so samples could be taken to determine if
he had fathered Jinky Young, whose mother Marilyn said she had a relationship
with the chess icon. The 64-year-old Fischer died in Iceland in January 2008.

-- Palm Beach Post wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR WORLD AT A GLANCE IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

METRO REPORT

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 390 words


POLICE BLOTTER

Jimmie D. McCrae, 79, who suffers from dementia, left his suburban West Palm
Beach home Thursday to buy lottery tickets and never came back. Palm Beach
County sheriff's officials issued a Silver Alert asking for the public's help in
finding McCrae, who was driving a 2006 black Toyota Corolla with the Florida tag
M049WF and a "PBCC" sticker on the back. McCrae, a black man with white hair and
a mustache, was last seen wearing a black and red striped shirt, tan linen pants
and brown dress shoes. He lives in the 4900 block of Haverhill Commons Circle.
Anyone with information can call sheriff's dispatchers at (561) 688-3400 or the
nearest law enforcement agency.

At least 22 immigrants, mostly Haitian, were rounded up along beaches in Boca
Raton and Manalapan on Thursday, authorities said. A first group was spotted
around South Inlet Park in Boca Raton. Boca Raton police and Border Patrol
officials detained 16 people, including three children, said Elee Erice, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection. A second group of six
people, apparently including at least one Sri Lankan national, was detained in
Manalapan, according to Chief Clay Walker of the Manalapan Police Department.
The immigrants were taken to a U.S. Customs office in West Palm Beach and will
be processed for removal proceedings.

WEST NILE VIRUS

Five cases of West Nile Virus have been detected in southwestern Palm Beach
County over the past two weeks, according to the health department, the Sun
Sentinel reported. Two sentinel chickens, which are used as an early detection
system for mosquito-borne disease, tested positive for exposure Friday. Three
others were confirmed two weeks ago. Most people infected with the West Nile
virus show mild symptoms that include fever, headache and body aches. In the
worst cases, it can lead to meningitis or encephalitis. The county is spraying
populated areas to control the mosquitoes.

WEST PALM BEACH

West Palm Beach's new City Center and redesigned waterfront won the 2010 public
sector project of the year award for the Urban Land Institute's Southeast
Florida/Caribbean region on Thursday. West Palm Beach had followed many of the
Urban Land Institute's recommendations for designing the revamped waterfront.
Mayor Lois Frankel called the award "a tremendous honor for these public
projects."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Weather, traffic, breaking news and special reports
PalmBeachPost.com/Local

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CYBER CRACKDOWNON ILLEGAL HIRESA Florida bill would require all employers to use
a federal website to run a five-second check on the immigration status of new
workers.How E-Verify worksSome local employers already use E-Verify, a free
system from the federal Department of Homeland Security.Homeland Security says
96.9 percent of inquiries come back 'Authorized.'Full steam ahead3.1 percent of
queries result in 'Tentative Nonconfirmation,' but most of those workers end up
qualifying for employment. ;
 In 2007, one in 19 hires was vetted with E-Verify.Today, it is one in four.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1206 words


If Florida enacts proposed "Arizona-like" immigration measures next year, all
employers in the state will be required to use a federal government website to
confirm the legal status of new hires.

Some local employers already are using the Homeland Security system, E-Verify,
and say the program is generally reliable and problem-free.

Here's how it works:

Today, any person in the U.S. hired for a job is required to fill out an I-9
form from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services listing his or her legal
status. In many cases, the form goes into a file and is forgotten.

But if a bill presented last month by Attorney General Bill McCollum and state
Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, is passed by the Florida Legislature next spring,
employers will be obligated to take another important step.

The employer will turn to a computer; bring up the federal government's E-Verify
website; sign on; type in a name, date of birth, citizenship status, Social
Security or alien registration number, and date of hire; and hit "enter."

Within five seconds, that employer will know whether the information is valid or
a problem exists that may bar the applicant from working.

Some entries will come back as a "Tentative Nonconfirmation" because of glitches
in Social Security records that can be easily cleared up, immigration officials
say. But others will be cases of illegal immigrants applying for work with false
Social Security numbers who do not qualify for employment.

Thousands of companies and government agencies in Florida have voluntarily used
the free E-Verify system over the years. But under the new bill, all Florida
employers would be obligated to use it by Oct. 1, 2011.

"It's a useful tool for employers who want to ensure that they have a legal
workforce," said Sharon Scheidhauer, regional spokeswoman for Citizenship and
Immigration Services at the Department of Homeland Security. "It's quick and
it's accurate."

The E-Verify system, under different names, goes back to President Reagan and
the 1986 amnesty that opened a path to legal residence for more than 2 million
illegal immigrants.

That amnesty law required employers to confirm that new hires be legally in the
country. A phone system was established to run checks, but that provision of the
law was never enforced and employers continued to hire undocumented workers.
Today at least 11 million people are in the country illegally, millions of them
working.

As the immigration issue has heated up, Homeland Security has seen increasing
use of E-Verify.

So far this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, 13.4 million queries have been
made, more than double the 6.6 million of 2008.

In 2007, one in 19 hires was vetted with E-Verify, while today it is one in
four, according to the Center for Immigration Studies, a conservative nonprofit
research organization.

Homeland Security lists more than 200,000 businesses and agencies nationwide and
more than 9,000 in Florida as users of E-Verify. But that list goes back years
and some of the businesses no longer exist, so it is not clear how many are
current users.

Attorney Lawrence Lataif, chief immigration counsel at the Shutts & Bowen law
offices in West Palm Beach, says at least 13 states require state agencies and
some contractors doing business with their states to use E-Verify, and many
contractors doing business with the federal government also are required to use
it.

According to the regulations for using E-Verify, the system cannot be employed
as a pre-screening tool to eliminate applicants.

"It could be considered discrimination," Scheidhauer said.

The system can be used only to verify information once a person has been hired.
The inquiry must begin within three business days of the hiring.

Nationwide, 96.9 percent of queries come back with the applicant's information
"Authorized" immediately, which means there is no bar to employment, Homeland
Security statistics show.

An additional 3.1 percent come back as a "Tentative Nonconfirmation," or TNC. An
employee who receives a TNC notice has the right to contest that designation
within eight business days and cannot be terminated or suffer any other adverse
effect while the TNC notice is contested.

Of the 3.1 percent of all queries that come back as TNC, almost all -- 2.8
percent -- turn out to be cases where the person has a valid Social Security
number and is employable, but needs to straighten out records.

Aimee Mangold, area human resources director for Marriott, uses E-Verify at the
Palm Beach Gardens Marriott and the Renaissance hotel in Boca Raton and has seen
such instances.

"You have a woman who got married or got divorced, changed her name but didn't
update her records with Social Security," Mangold said.

Mangold said she also has seen cases where a person's legal immigration status
changed -- from green card holder to permanent resident, for example -- and that
also requires notifying Social Security officials. She said those cases are
usually quickly fixed and the person is employed.

The other 0.3 percent are largely individuals who don't contest the TNC finding.

"We don't see them again," Mangold said.

Scheidhauer said it can be assumed that those individuals are in the country
illegally. "They realize they are not authorized to work and they choose not to
pursue it any farther," she said.

Mangold said she is pleased with E-Verify.

In Palm Beach, The Breakers and its employees also are pleased with the system,
spokeswoman Ann Margo Peart said. The hotel has used E-Verify since 2003.

"It is a very efficient program," Peart said.

But the McCollum/Snyder bill also has critics.

West Palm Beach attorney and immigration activist Aileen Josephs supports the
use of E-Verify, but only as part of a larger immigration reform that would
allow the millions of undocumented people in the U.S. an opportunity to become
legal.

"Every day I have employers calling me, wishing for their workers to be legal,
and there is no way for me to help their employees because of our current broken
immigration system," Josephs said.

If E-Verify is made obligatory in 2011 without other changes, Josephs said,
undocumented workers will be affected and "their employers, who need them, will
not be able to keep them in those needed jobs."

She said that might lead employers in industries where many undocumented workers
are traditionally employed -- "agriculture, poultry, hotel and restaurant
businesses, among others" -- to pressure Congress for legislation to fix the
immigration crisis.

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which has represented many undocumented
immigrants throughout South Florida, condemns McCollum for backing the bill.
"What we need is more jobs and sensible immigration reform, not more threats for
Florida's workers and economy," the center said in an e-mail.

But others, like Dee Donahue, office manager of Lifetime Roofs in Stuart, see a
need for a system like E-Verify. She has used a private website --
SSNvalidator.com -- to check Social Security numbers over the years.

"I've checked numbers and the message comes back telling me that person died in
1962," she said. "Yes, some of them out there are phony."

Staff writer Christine Stapleton and staff researcher Niels Heimeriks
contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More immigration coverage  Inside:Illegal hiring results in 16-month
sentence. Local, 1B Online:Get updates onlocal and state battles.
PalmBeachPost.com/go/immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fight rages on eve of Dream Act vote ;
 Colin Powell riles the right by backing the bill the Senate tackles today.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 635 words


With an important vote on the emotional issue of immigration due today in the
U.S. Senate, former Secretary of State Colin Powell -- the son of Jamaican
immigrants -- chose to join the fray Sunday.

Appearing on NBC's Meet the Press, Powell voiced support for the pending
immigration bill known as the Dream Act. He also attacked political
conservatives, including members of his own Republican Party, for their
"hostility" toward immigrants.

Powell's words reverberated around the country, including in Florida, where
thousands of people could be affected by the vote. Some South Florida
conservatives took issue with his comments.

The Dream Act addresses the legal status of undocumented immigrants who were
brought to the U.S. before age 16, have lived here for at least five years and
have graduated from high school or earned a general equivalency diploma. It
would enable them to qualify for permanent residence by completing two years of
college or serving two years in the U.S. military.

The Dream Act has been attached to a military appropriations bill. The Senate
will hold a crucial procedural vote on the bill today.

The military has backed the Dream Act because it would provide a new pool of
potential recruits. In fact, the military already has thousands of enlistees who
are not full U.S. citizens.

Powell, a retired four-star general and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, closed ranks with his comrades in arms. He said a path to legal status
should be offered to illegal immigrants not just because of the role they could
play in the military, but because they "are doing things we need done in this
country."

Powell said he knew this from his own experience.

"They're all over my house, doing things whenever I call for repairs, and I'm
sure you've seen them at your house," he said. "We've got to find a way to bring
these people out of the darkness and give them some kind of status."

Powell, a moderate Republican, was President George W. Bush's first-term
secretary of state and was once considered a strong candidate for the GOP
presidential or vice presidential nomination in 2008. In the end, he stayed out
of the race and endorsed Barack Obama.

During the Sunday interview, Powell lamented the GOP's stance against the Dream
Act and other legislation proposed by Obama that would open a path to legal
residence for 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country. Republicans
must not become anti-immigrant, he said, because immigration offers the U.S. a
chance to maintain a youthful population in contrast to the aging of Europe and
Japan.

Powell also said the conservative tea party activists would not become an
enduring force in U.S. politics until they move beyond slogans and promote an
agenda that people "can see, touch and actually believe in."

In South Florida, tea party representatives reiterated the group's opposition to
the Dream Act.

"The Dream Act is a form of amnesty," said Everett Wilkinson of Palm Beach
Gardens, chairman of the South Florida Tea Party.

Wilkinson also opposes the Dream Act being attached to a military appropriations
bill, even though the military supports it.

"I am not against foreigners and we are not against education and/or against
defense, but these are separate issues," he said.

Broward-based tea party spokesman Tim McClellan said he also disagrees with most
elements of the Dream Act. "We have to stop kowtowing to illegal aliens," he
said.

But McClellan said he would support legislation that offered a path to U.S.
citizenship for undocumented immigrants who serve in the armed forces.

"I don't have a problem with that," he said. "If you're willing to risk your
life for the U.S., for freedom, that's a different situation."

The Associated Press and staff researcher Michelle Quigley contributed to this
story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

S. Florida Hispaniclawmakers back Scott ;
 The three Republicans supported McCollum in the August primary.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES


Three Cuban-American Republicans in Congress who previously withheld support of
GOP gubernatorial candidate Rick Scott jumped on the bandwagon Monday.

At a news conference at the Hyatt Regency, Miami-Dade County U.S. Reps. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen and brothers Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart endorsed Scott.

All backed Attorney General Bill McCollum in the Aug. 24 primary, which Scott
won. Along the way, they had expressed strong opposition to Scott's call for an
Arizona-style immigration law in Florida, which would allow state and local law
enforcement officials to detain undocumented immigrants. Many Latinos have
opposed such legislation, saying it would lead to racial profiling.

The three members of Congress were conspicuously absent from a GOP "unity rally"
with Scott in Miami right after the primary. They said they still disagree with
him on the immigration issue but feel he is the best candidate.

They also took shots at Scott's opponent, Democrat Alex Sink.

"I disagree with Rick Scott on immigration, but I also disagree with Alex Sink
on immigration," Lincoln Diaz-Balart said.

Sink has taken the position that employers be required to use the federal
E-Verify computer website to ensure that the people they hire are legally in the
country. Diaz-Balart said he thinks the system turns employers into "an arm of
law enforcement."

All three said the main reason they are supporting Scott is his pledge to lower
taxes and create jobs.

"If you think there is any other issue, you aren't paying attention,"
Ros-Lehtinen said. "The economy is issue No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Live video stream  Democrat Alex Sink meets with The Post's editorial
board at 10 a.m. Wednesday. PalmBeachPost.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fetterman over Harrell ;
 Law-enforcement work would help on immigration.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 334 words


Predators who sexually abused children too often escaped criminal and civil
punishment in Florida because the statute of limitations had run out before the
victims came forward. State Rep. Adam Fetterman, D-Port St. Lucie, this year
sponsored the law that finally closed that loophole.

Rep. Fetterman, whom The Post recommends for reelection in state House District
81, is general counsel to St. Lucie County Sheriff Ken Mascara. There must be
something about law-and-order work in the Treasure Coast that makes people run
for the Legislature.

Rep. Fetterman says he's willing to work with fellow Rep. William Snyder, R-
Stuart -- who rose to the rank of major in the Martin County Sheriff's Office
before retiring -- to craft an immigration bill, modeled after Arizona's, that
can pass constitutional challenges. Given his job, Rep. Fetterman, correctly, is
concerned about any bill that would make local law enforcement pay to enforce
federal immigration policies.

Rep. Fetterman says the $1-per-pack increase on cigarettes is the only tax he
has voted for. He did vote with Democrats and some Republicans against the
teacher merit-pay proposal. He opposed the requirement that all women seeking an
abortion have an ultrasound, even if it isn't needed, and he voted against
deregulating property insurance.

His Republican opponent is former Rep. Gayle Harrell, who left the Legislature
two years ago because of term limits and ran unsuccessfully for Congress in
2008. Ms. Harrell says she would not have supported the cigarette tax. That's a
surprise, given her record as a legislator interested in health issues. She says
she would have tried to change the merit-pay bill, but in Tallahassee she wasn't
known for bucking the GOP leadership.

Rep. Fetterman says, "A voice that challenges the status quo is exceptionally
necessary" now in Tallahassee. He can be that voice for House District 81, and
voters should give him another term on Nov. 2.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE HOUSE, DISTRICT 81

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Endorsement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HISPANICVOTERS;
Midterm mystery: Will Latinos vote?;
Inaction on immigration could cause some to stay away -- but Rubio's candidacy
could inspire others to show up.Will Latinos come out to vote?;
Even Cuban candidate Rubio may not be enough to attract Hispanics like in '06,
'08

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1085 words


When it comes to voting on Nov. 2, Wendy Francisco, an Indiantown resident of
Guatemalan descent, is still trying to make up her mind.

Francisco, 24, voted for Barack Obama in 2008 in hopes that he would push
through comprehensive immigration reform, or at least limited legislation that
would legalize certain undocumented students and agricultural workers. That
would have helped some of her family members.

But Obama has been unable to get Congress to act on the issue.

"I don't know if I'll vote or not this time," she said. "Obama talked about
change, but he can't make change happen. I am the only one in my family who can
vote, but why should I vote if it isn't going to make any difference to me and
my family?"

According to a national poll this month, Francisco isn't alone among Hispanics,
particularly in Florida.

The dreadful economic performance of the past two years and a lack of movement
on immigration could lead even relatively liberal Latinos -- such as Puerto
Ricans in Central Florida's Interstate 4 corridor -- to shun the polls and not
support Democrats as they did in 2006 and even more so in 2008.

Then again, anti-immigrant rhetoric by some conservative candidates and GOP
pledges to roll back health care reform --which many Latinos support -- could
bring them out.

The U.S. Senate candidacy of Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American from Miami, also
could inspire Latino voters.

But some Hispanic voters don't care for Rubio's conservatism. And with the
Republican leading comfortably in most polls, some Hispanic voters may decide,
"Why bother? He has it won without me."

"Predicting turnout is very tricky business," said Scott Rasmussen, founder and
president of Rasmussen Reports, a nationally known polling service. "And it's
still early."

The nonprofit Pew Hispanic Center reported that of the Hispanics it polled
recently, only 51 percent said they were certain they would vote Nov. 2,
compared with 70 percent of all registered voters.

While 50 percent of all voters said they had studied the candidates and issues
"quite a lot," only 32 percent of Hispanics said the same.

Florida has about 1.6 million Hispanic voters, who represent 13 percent of all
registered voters, according to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials. But how many will vote?

One point on which all pollsters agree is that Latinos will not come out in the
numbers they did for Obama in 2008, when he won 67 percent of the Hispanic vote
nationwide against Republican John McCain. In Florida, the Latino vote helped
Obama carry the state.

"Certainly there is not as much enthusiasm" as in 2008, said Fernand Amandi of
Bendixen & Amandi, a Miami polling firm that works with Democratic candidates.

Turnouts for midterm elections are always smaller than those during presidential
elections. Amandi said the real question is whether Latinos will vote the way
they did in 2006, when they turned out in higher-than-usual numbers to repudiate
the policies of the George W. Bush administration.

Amandi said he wasn't sure whether that would happen. But he also wasn't ready
to agree with the Pew report's conclusion that Hispanics will be
underrepresented at the polls.

He cited Arizona, where bitterness over a new immigration law has spurred
political activism on the part of Latino voters. He also mentioned races around
the country that feature Hispanics running for key state or federal offices.

Brad Coker, managing director of the Mason-Dixon poll, said Rubio could be a
case in point.

"In the Cuban community, I expect the turnout to be as high or higher than usual
because of Rubio," Coker said. "But with non-Cuban Hispanics, it's hard to tell.
Not much has changed for them."

In an early October poll by the Asisa Research Group, 37.8 percent of Florida
Hispanics who called themselves likely voters favored independent Gov. Charlie
Crist in the Senate race, 28.9 percent favored Rubio and 11.1 percent favored
Democrat Kendrick Meek. About 20 percent were undecided.

Many non-Cuban Hispanics are Democrats, Coker said. With polls showing that many
Democrats don't appear enthusiastic about Nov. 2, a drop in Latino voters may be
part of a general decline among Democrats.

On the other hand, according to the Pew report, 63 percent of Hispanic voters
nationwide approve of the job Obama has done, compared with 47 percent of all
registered voters.

But when asked about Obama's policies, 51 percent of Hispanic voters said they'd
had no effect on Latinos, 26 percent said they had been helpful and 13 percent
said they had been harmful.

So what will Hispanics do Nov. 2?

Manuel Allende, executive director of the Palm Beach County Farmworker
Coordinating Council, is originally from Puerto Rico and has been voting for
decades.

"Of course I'll vote this time," he said. "The election is just as key as the
last one. You should vote in every election. It's your responsibility, but
probably older people like me think that way more than the younger people."

One of those younger people is Ben Gaspar, 24, a Stuart resident of Guatemalan
descent. Gaspar is a registered Democrat who supported Obama in 2008 and had
hopes that Obama would achieve immigration reform. He is unhappy about the lack
of progress on the issue but still plans to vote.

"But what I am thinking of doing is changing my registration from Democrat to
independent," he said. "The Democrats have controlled the White House and
Congress and not gotten it done, so maybe if more of us are independents, the
two parties will be less partisan."

Meanwhile, Wendy Francisco is still debating what to do on Election Day.

"I want to go meet some of these local candidates," she said. "They talk a lot,
but they don't do anything. I want to hear what they will do to help us. Right
now I'm not real happy with the way things have gone."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Palm Beach Countyregistered voters

By party for the Aug. 24 primary elections:

Republicans Hispanic Republicans Democrats Hispanic Democrats Total voters

236,808 14,156 (6% of total) 372,749 28,114 (8% of total) 815,068

Source: Florida Division of Elections

In Palm Beach County

* 225,847 Hispanics live in the county, nearly 18 percent of its 1.27 million
residents.

* The county is 37th in number of Hispanics among 3,100 U.S. counties polled by
the census.

In Florida

* There were 3.8 million Hispanics in 2008, 21 percent of Floridians.

Nationwide

* Florida Hispanics are 8 percent of the U.S. Hispanic population.

Source: Pew Hispanic Center

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTIONS 2010 YOUR VOTE STARTS HERE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sheriff cleared in immigrant suit ;
 The office didn't violate the rights of an inmate, a federal judge rules.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


It was billed as a case that was going to show how Sheriff Ric Bradshaw tramples
on immigrants, keeping them in jail and refusing to let their friends and
families post bond to get them out.

However, nearly a year after an immigrant rights group filed suit, a federal
judge found no evidence that anyone's rights had been violated.

U.S. District Court Judge Kenneth Marra granted Bradshaw's motion for summary
judgment, meaning that he found no merit to the claims raised by Boca Raton
attorney Barry Silver and attorneys with the New York-based civil rights group
LatinoJustice.

Contrary to claims of widespread abuse, Marra said "the record evidence does not
demonstrate anything more than the jail staff 'occasionally erring and failing
to fulfill their duties as instructed.' "

Attorney Jose Perez, one of several LatinoJustice attorneys involved, said
Tuesday that he disagreed with the ruling, issued late last month. He said the
group likely would appeal.

The case was filed on behalf of Marcotulio Mendez, a 28-year-old father of four
who spent five months in the county jail last year after being arrested on
charges of driving without a license and fleeing and eluding police -- charges
that were ultimately dismissed. Deputies said they couldn't release him because
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement had placed a hold on the 11-year West
Palm Beach resident for unspecified immigration violations.

But such holds are only to last for 48 hours, Perez said. If ICE doesn't act,
the hold disappears and the person can be released on bond. But he said deputies
don't fully explain the policy, allowing people like Mendez to languish in jail.

"We believe it is only the tip of the iceberg," Perez said.

Attorney Fred Gelston, who represented Bradshaw, said there are various factors
-- none the fault of the sheriff's office -- that contributed to Mendez's
lengthy jail stay. He was mistakenly charged twice for driving without a
license. When he didn't appear in court on the traffic ticket because he was in
jail, a warrant was issued for his arrest. It took months for the mistake to be
discovered. He was ultimately released 48 hours after the charges were dismissed
and ICE revoked its hold.

Deputies explain that there is no reason to post a bond if an inmate is under an
ICE hold. Not only will the person not be released, but there is a strong
likelihood his or her family or friends will lose the bond money if ICE acts and
the person is deported.

Gelston said he doesn't understand the logic behind the allegations.

"What's in it for the sheriff to hold these people?" he asked.

~ jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1158 words


Refugees seeking SSI have helped community

I can appreciate the consternation expressed by many letter writers about the
older immigrant women who lost their Supplemental Security Income benefits and
were profiled Nov. 9 in The Post ("No English, no SSI benefits"). As their
geriatric care manager and social worker, I'd like to clarify some issues.

First, both Elba Salazar and Ofelia Pimentel, the women in question, have
volunteered through AmeriCorps and other similar programs. They have, to the
best of their ability, contributed to our community, and continue to do so.

Second, Ofelia is taking in sewing (she is a talented seamstress) to survive.
She and Elba are extremely driven.

Finally, there is the policy issue. Perhaps we should permit non-working or
older refugees to enter our country only if they have sponsors. The challenge
with Elba, Ofelia and others in the same situation is that they are already
here, having escaped persecution and revolution. Now they need to survive.

Their capacity to learn English may indeed be compromised. Compassion would
dictate finding a way to help them maintain their former meager standard of
living. Common sense would dictate that changes be made to prevent this problem.
Immigration reform is needed, and not just where the undocumented are concerned.

PAM WIENER, Ph.D.

West Palm Beach

Immigrants getting aid owe it to U.S. to learn language

For the immigrants who have lived here for 10 years accepting $8,100 a year to
not learn the language of your host is very insulting. It shows that they don't
care, and they want the U.S. to change for them.

Being on Social Security myself, at less than poverty, I would gladly accept
their $8,100. Why don't they go to Mexico or any South American country where
Spanish is the language? But, then, they would not get a free $8,100 a year.

People who immigrate should accept their hosts' customs and traditions, not try
to change them for their own benefit. If you immerse yourself in any language,
you will quickly learn it, at any age. What kind of cheese would they like with
their whine?

JOHN T. ADAMS

Delray Beach

Immigrants who don't pay into system shouldn't benefit

I am angry that people, like the two women whose story was in the paper, who
have not worked in this country and paid taxes are allowed to collect Social
Security benefits. And if they learn the language and pass the citizenship test
in English, they will get the benefits. What's up with that?

First, they don't deserve it -- English or no English. And if they are getting
SSI disability, the SSI rulebook says that you have to earn six to 20 credits in
the three to 10 years before you become disabled to get disability.

I get only $691 from SSI, and I've been here all my life and worked many years.
Now I know why they can't give us a raise. And why shouldn't immigrants come
into this country? They get free money.

THERESA COOK

West Palm Beach

Post should help lift stigma against mental illness

I am writing in response to the coverage of the Paul Michael Merhige story,
specifically the reference to "his mental history," and as a follow-up to the
letter critical of the term "the mentally ill."

As the mother of a young man with a diagnosed mental illness and as president of
the Palm Beach County Chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, none
of your reporters who cover these "high-profile" cases are educated about mental
illness, other than Christine Stapleton.I support the letter writer for speaking
out to this type of stigmatizing misinformation.

People who have mental illness deserve the respect and compassion that anyone
else with an illness would expect. They also need education about their illness
and the support of their family. Family members need to get educated and
supported themselves, and that is what NAMI does.My son was diagnosed three
years ago, and has been in recovery, episode-free, for almost two years. I
attribute that success to the education and support that NAMI/PBC provided my
son and myself.

Mental illnesses are caused by chemical imbalances in the brain (a medical
condition) and can be treated successfully with medications, therapies and
support. No one asks to have these illnesses.The problem is that people don't
know where to turn and they fear what they don't understand. When will The Post
step up and help us bring this awareness to the public and stomp out the stigma
associated with these illnesses?

LIZ DOWNEY

Lake Worth

Citizenship emcee muffed it

I attended the swearing-in ceremony of several dozen new United States citizens
at the ICE office in West Palm Beach. All of these proud people had worked hard
for months, studying civics, government and our Constitution. Imagine their
disappointment when the master of ceremonies could not even recite the pledge of
allegiance.

JOE PANELLA

Boca Raton

No 1099 worry for public

I appreciated the correction regarding the letter to the editor, "Health bill
requirement puts privacy at risk." Section 9006 of the health care law requires
corporations to issue 1099 forms to vendors from whom they buy goods and
services. So Publix will need to issue a 1099 to you if the company buys $600 or
more of goods or services from you. Not many of us will be affected.

MICHAEL MUNDY

Boynton Beach

Change system that rewards repeat unwed mothers

The government statistics showing the huge percentile of unmarried mothers
should become a wake-up call for the country. ("Rate of unmarried mothers
reaches 72 percent among blacks").

This wake-up call should include Asians, Hispanics, Native Americans and whites,
whose percentiles are not as high but who are following the same pattern of
having children out of wedlock. Not having a father in the home places a huge
burden upon the government, and also deprives children of a father figure that
society accepts as an important component of a solid, and healthy family life.

To quote from the article, "Statistics show that children of unmarried mothers
of any race are more likely to perform poorly in school, go to prison, use
drugs, be poor as adults and have their own children out of wedlock."

Rather than continue to reward mothers who keep on having babies while not
married, by giving them welfare checks, it might be time to pass a law to stop
them and help inhibit this current trend. Or we might borrow a solution from
China, where the government permits the birth of only one child per family. And
that law is very strongly enforced.

That might not sound very democratic to Americans, but it sure would inhibit the
birth rate, particularly among mothers who can barely manage to take care of one
child. In America, unfortunately, we are seeing a disregard for responsibility
among women who don't marry, have babies and then expect our taxes to take care
of them.

What was that old cry during the Revolution? "No taxation without
representation!" Time for Americans to say, "Stop the welfare checks to
unmarried mothers!"

CLAIRE FASS

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COMPB  TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and
PublisherThe Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing
andmust include the writer's name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred
length is a maximum of 200 words. E-mail: letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the
Editor,The Palm Beach Post, P.O. Box 24700,West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700
Fax:(561) 820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION:
The news you need, the analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you value.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wake up to reality of plan ;
 Facts don't support opponents' arguments.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 430 words


DREAM Act opponents need some talking points that deal with reality.

This week, the Senate is expected to take up the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act. Despite bipartisan support, chances of success
are slim for the measure that would provide a path to citizenship for children
who were brought here illegally if they go to college or join the military.

Sen. George LeMieux, R-Fla., and Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, symbolize the
talking-point resistance. "While I am sympathetic to the students impacted by
current law," Sen. LeMieux said in a statement, "I cannot support consideration
of the DREAM Act until we have taken substantial and effective measures to
secure our borders." But this summer, Congress passed and President Obama signed
a $600 million bill to pay for 1,500 new border agents, additional unmanned
surveillance drones and new Border Patrol stations along the U.S. southwest
border. How does Sen. LeMieux define "substantial and effective"? If one Mexican
gets though, is that failure?

"Passing the DREAM Act would provide another incentive for individuals to come
here illegally," Rep. Rooney said. "Granting benefits to students who are here
illegally would worsen our immigration problem and undermine the rule of law."
The law, however, would apply only to illegal immigrants in the U.S. for five
consecutive years prior to enactment of the bill. Since only immigrants already
here would be eligible, there would be no incentive for new arrivals.

The measure would apply to illegal immigrants younger than 35 who arrived before
they were 16 and have obtained a high school diploma or GED. They could apply
for permanent resident status if they serve two years in the military or
complete two years of college and maintain good moral character. Critics assail
the bill as "amnesty," but amnesty means to overlook a past offense. Children
whose parents brought them illegally have committed no crime that needs
overlooking. Also, the conditions they must meet to gain permanent legal
residency mean that their initial status as illegal is not being overlooked.

Defense Secretary Robert Gates and other military leaders support the bill as a
way to increase their ranks. It also has the support of most Americans -- 70
percent according to a summer poll. Since it is unrealistic to expect that the
United States will deport the estimated 800,000 children who would be eligible
under the act, the bill would benefit the country by giving them a better chance
to become productive citizens.

-- Rhonda Swan,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DREAM ACT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BETTER LIFE BECKONS IMMIGRANTS TO ENDURE RISKY JOURNEY

BYLINE: By DAPHNE DURET Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 351 words


In their minds, anywhere is better than Haiti.

That's why the people cram themselves and their small children onto rickety
boats in Bimini and Freeport, paying smugglers thousands of dollars each in the
hopes of getting to the United States.

The Bahamian cities, both popular American tourist spots, for years have also
been well-used pipelines for smugglers to sneak human cargo onto American
shores.

Some succeed. Some get caught. And others, like the 10 or more people whose
bodies were recovered in waters off Boynton Beach on Wednesday, die along the
way.

"They take the risk, knowing that it's a risk, and knowing that people have
died," said the Rev. Roland Desormeaux, pastor of Our Lady of Perpetual Help
Church in Delray Beach. "People never stop coming."

Desormeaux says he knows of Haitians in Freeport right now who are trying to get
to West Palm Beach.

The business of human trafficking is fueled by intense demand. People mired in
poverty pay smugglers $3,000 to $4,000 for illegal passage to the United States,
although some captains have been known to charge as much as $5,000.

At times, the smugglers break their promises to passengers, forcing them to jump
off boats far from shore, shoving them into the water without life jackets,
knowing they cannot swim.

Authorities say that's what happened to Nigel Warren in 2006. Warren, 52, died
in waters off Jupiter Island when the captain of his boat, Rickey Thompson,
forced him off. Thompson last year was sentenced to five life sentences for the
deaths of Warren and two other people.

In other cases, Desormeaux says, the smugglers try to fit as many people on a
boat as they can for maximum profit, setting the stage for a lethal capsizing.

Coast Guard officials said Wednesday night that they were trying to determine
what caused this latest boat to capsize.

Desormeaux, meanwhile, was headed to the church, where he planned to wait for
phone calls in case one of the people who died was related to one of his
parishioners.

No matter how many die, he knows, more will ride the rickety boats, -- some to a
new life, some to death.

~ daphne_duret@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECOND ARREST MADE IN FATAL BOAT TRIP

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A second survivor has been charged with human smuggling in connection with a
failed boat trip that killed at least 10 Haitian nationals last month off the
coast of Palm Beach County, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Jean Monique Nelson, 32, one of 16 people rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard on May
13 about 16 miles offshore, was arrested by federal agents Monday on charges of
human smuggling resulting in death.

Another survivor, 33-year-old Jimmy Metellus, was arrested on similar charges
just days after the boat carrying the Haitians sank off the coast.

The Coast Guard rescued 16 survivors and retrieved nine bodies of victims who
died in the water, including a toddler and a woman who was eight months
pregnant. As many as 10 more people are feared to have drowned, but their bodies
were never located.

According to the U.S. attorney's office's criminal complaint against Nelson, the
same survivor who identified Metellus as the captain of the doomed voyage from
the Bahamas to Florida also identified Nelson, a Haitian national, as helping
with the smuggling trip.

Metellus is in federal custody and is expected to be arraigned July 1. Nelson is
being held in the Glades County Jail, according to the criminal complaint. Both
men could face up to 20 years in prison or possibly the death penalty, according
to a report from the U.S. attorney's office.

~jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More coverage online Read previous stories on the May 13 incident and
rescue. PalmBeachPost.com

GRAPHIC:  mark slot Name

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 162 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS GET PRISON FOR MAN'S DEATH

BYLINE: By JULIUS WHIGHAM II Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 2007 human smuggling operation off Palm Beach that turned deadly has resulted
in federal prison sentences for two Miami men.

U.S. District Judge Daniel T.K. Hurley sentenced Aurielo Sanchez-Ortega, 21, and
Angel Navarro-Lliteras, 36, on Friday for their roles in the November 2007
operation that resulted in the death of Cuban migrant Carlos Alberto Pons-Arias,
who drowned off Palm Beach while trying to swim to shore. He was one of 35
people being smuggled out of Cuba.

Sanchez-Ortega was sentenced to 75 months in prison, to be followed by 36 months
of supervised release.

Navarro-Lliteras received credit for time served and was sentenced to 19 months
in prison, to be followed by 36 months of supervised release.

~ julius_whigham@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
