
                               1 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 12, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DO THE RIGHT THING ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 688 words


Sen. Hillary Clinton's illegal immigration dilemma has drawn widespread
attention since a Democratic debate in Philadelphia last month. By waffling on
the issue of driver's licenses for undocumented aliens, she opened a contentious
conversation that she and her rivals had been trying to avoid.

Some consultants, fearing a backlash, have cautioned Democrats against speaking
out on behalf of illegal immigrants, suggesting a blurred stance less easily
dismissed as "amnesty."

They know that many voters - even Democrats and independents - are uneasy about
the huge number of illegal immigrants, estimated at 12 million, already in the
country. They also know that Republicans will prey on that unease and use it as
a wedge as they desperately seek a winning issue in an election that looks grim
for the GOP.

Still, here's some counterintuitive advice for the Democrats: Don't hedge. Lead.
Do the right thing. Come out clearly and forcefully for putting illegal
immigrants already in the country on a path to citizenship. This is no time to
trim or triangulate. Show some spine. America is ready for reasoned leadership
on this issue.

With a couple of notable exceptions, Republican presidential candidates have
made it clear where they stand on illegal immigrants: foursquare against. Faced
with a nativist voting base, GOP contenders have chosen to ratchet up the
animosity against undocumented workers rather than tamp down their constituents'
feverish hostility. Even former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who once praised
illegal workers for the entrepreneurial vibrancy they brought his city, has
found his inner Know-Nothing.

This is typical Republican scapegoating. They've used wedge issues since the
1960s, when they found they could court Southern whites uncomfortable with the
civil rights movement by stoking their latent prejudices.

They're using a similar strategy to scapegoat foreigners, stoking Americans'
fears of globalization, economic dislocation and terrorism.

So let the GOP be the party of fear and division. Democrats ought to stand for
something else. The modern Democratic Party also made its choice in the 1960s,
choosing hope over fear, tolerance over division and the beloved community over
bigotry. After defeating Barry Goldwater, who ran for president in 1964 on a
states' rights platform, Lyndon Johnson backed civil rights bills that were
extraordinarily controversial. But that legislation changed the country,
abolishing Jim Crow and giving black Americans full citizenship.

This is no time for Democrats to turn their backs on that heritage. America is
too generous and compassionate to expel millions of productive and otherwise
law-abiding people. The nation has taken advantage of their labor for decades,
and it would be inhumane (and outrageously expensive) to round them up and send
them back.

But Americans also want to be assured that this is the last time a broad
legalization option is offered to illegal immigrants. Democrats ought to make it
clear that they'll enforce the borders and crack down on employers who hire
illegally, a cheaper and more effective strategy for addressing the problem than
building fences. After a few CEOs have done the perp walk for illegal hiring,
they'll stop offering jobs to those without proper documents. And when word gets
across the border that U.S. companies have stopped hiring, those laborers will
stop coming. They come for jobs, after all, not jihad.

This is a win-win platform. Not only is it wise and honorable, calling on the
highest ideals of a nation of immigrants, it can also produce victories at the
ballot box. Last week, Virginia Democrats made gains in state and local
elections even though the state has been embroiled in fiery debate over illegal
immigration. As an analysis by The Washington Post concluded, voting trends
didn't benefit "those who campaigned the loudest for tough sanctions against
illegal immigrants."

Let Republicans can take the low road. It won't take them where the rest of the
country wants to go.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN'S BILL NOW FOREIGN TO HIM

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION & IDEAS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 651 words


It's easy to forget that just last year, Barack Obama and John McCain were part
of a bipartisan group that tried to push a comprehensive immigration reform bill
through the Senate.

Their effort failed, and now that they're campaigning against each other, it
gets very confusing trying to figure out who actually did what with the bill, or
who was even there to watch it die.

Let me explain.

Sen. McCain was a leader on immigration reform in the Senate and coauthored much
of the proposed legislation with Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. It called for a
guest-worker program and an incremental path to legal status for the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants.

But Sen. McCain would prefer that Republicans forget that.

Most of his party hated the bill and considered it amnesty for lawbreakers. Any
association with Sen. Kennedy -- or for that matter, most anyone from
Massachusetts -- sends shivers through the GOP base.

So, today, Sen. McCain often talks as if he wasn't even there when the
immigration bill hit the Senate floor.

His position has, shall we say, "evolved." He now makes border security and
cracking down on employers who hire illegal workers the top priorities. You
won't hear any more about paths to citizenship or guest-worker programs.

So, Sen. McCain's revised strategy is to minimize his role in the comprehensive
reform effort. But, ironically, his campaign also seeks to minimize the role of
Sen. Obama in the reform effort.

Surrogates for Sen. McCain are attacking Sen. Obama's contention that he figured
prominently in writing and negotiating the bill. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart,
R-Miami, said on a McCain conference call that Sen. Obama "was consistently,
absolutely AWOL" for negotiations on the bill.

The McCain campaign wants you to forget that Sen. McCain was there and also to
remember that Sen. Obama wasn't really there. This comes perilously close to
sharing the same position.

Both candidates are courting what will be the largest Hispanic vote in the
nation's history. A Gallup poll released July 2 showed that Sen. Obama holds a
healthy 59 percent to 29 percent lead over Sen. McCain among Hispanics
nationally.

This show of strength allays the worries in the Obama camp about converting
Hillary Clinton's Hispanic voters to the cause. Many of them remember the
Clinton presidency for creating jobs and raising the standard of living for
Hispanics. Sen. Obama appears to have successfully made the case that he can
restore what they have lost during eight years with President Bush.

Twenty-five years ago, the Hispanic vote in Florida was more than three-quarters
Cuban-American and overwhelmingly Republican. But, based on U.S. Census data,
Cuban-Americans are expected to account for less than 40 percent of the Hispanic
vote in November. As a bloc in the state, Hispanics are younger, more diverse in
countries of origin and far less Republican in politics than a generation ago.

Florida joins a group of swing states -- New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, perhaps
even Georgia -- that a large Hispanic turnout could decide.

Sen. Obama is exploiting the demographic and political shifts by attacking Sen.
McCain with compliments. He praises his opponent for "a courageous stance" in
sponsoring comprehensive immigration reform, then laments that Sen. McCain
"abandoned" it to get the nomination. Sen. Obama says Sen. McCain now "wouldn't
even vote for his own legislation" if it came up again in the Senate.

The three most important and contentious words in the immigration debate are
"pathway to citizenship." Sen. Obama is able to say them with confidence; Sen.
McCain doesn't get around to saying them at all anymore, preferring instead to
talk about controlling borders.

Hispanic voters are listening in greater numbers than ever before, and they know
exactly what they're hearing.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 2008 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HELD, CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By TERESA LANE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Two illegal immigrants were ordered held without bail Friday, two days after a
U.S. Customs agent charged them with using their van to transport 19 illegal
workers into St. Lucie County.

Jimmy Efrain Morales-Santos, 25, and Hermenegilda Garcia-Hernandez, 36, have
previously been deported and reentered the United States illegally, a federal
complaint states.

The pair told authorities they were hired in Houston about a month ago by a
woman named "Carla," who offered them $500 to $650 per trip to drive
undocumented immigrants from Texas to other states to meet relatives willing to
pay a smuggling fee of roughly $1,000 per person.

The couple's van carried 19 undocumented immigrants from Mexico, Honduras and
Guatemala as it exited Interstate 95 at Okeechobee Road early Wednesday, reports
state. Most passengers said they entered the country near McAllen, Texas, last
week and were taken to Houston, reports say.

A manifest inside the van contained the names of the van's occupants, along with
family phone numbers, drop-off locations and outstanding fees to be collected.
Morales-Santos told U.S. Customs Agent Raul Delgado Jr. he had made three trips
for Carla, and Garcia-Hernandez said this was her second.

One of the passengers, Marcos Santiago Cedillo-Menjivar, was deported on May 12,
2006, and charged with attempting to enter the country after being removed
previously. Morales-Santos and Garcia-Hernandez were charged with that crime as
well, and all three were labeled a flight risk during a Friday hearing and
detained by U.S. Magistrate Frank Lynch.

After receiving a tip, Delgado stopped the van load of immigrants at 1:30 a.m.
Wednesday as it exited I-95 southbound. Garcia-Hernandez said she was told that
if family members refused to pay, she should return the passenger to Houston to
make other arrangements, the complaint states.

~teresa_lane@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH SIGNS BILL INTENDED TO CURB IMMIGRANT FLOW

BYLINE: By KEN HERMAN Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A month after Congress completed work on the measure -- and 12 days before
Election Day -- President Bush on Thursday signed a border fence bill that
Republicans hope will help keep illegal immigrants out of the country.

Some GOP lawmakers called it a major step toward stemming the flow of illegal
immigrants. Bush called it a start. Democrats called it a publicity stunt aimed
at making Republican candidates look tough on immigration.

"We have more to do," Bush said at the White House signing ceremony. "Meaningful
immigration reform means that we must enforce our immigration laws in the United
States."

Although referred to as the "fence bill," the measure actually gives the
Department of Homeland Security leeway to determine how best to secure the
border. Among the options are two-layered fencing in several key areas, as well
as more cameras, ground sensors, lighting and unmanned aerial vehicles.

A separate measure, previously signed by the president, included $1.2 billion
for fencing, barriers and other infrastructure.

Cost estimates for the 700 miles of fencing range from $2 billion to $7 billion,
and many lawmakers and immigrant advocates doubt that it will ever be built.
Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a key liaison to the White House on immigration, said
recently that a lack of money and other practical considerations could prevent
construction.

Depending on where -- and if -- it is built, the fence could take the form of
chain link or solid wall. Boeing Co. was awarded a $67 million contract to
install a high-tech "virtual fence" along 28 miles in Arizona and will help
determine its proposed design.

At the signing ceremony, Bush renewed his call for a temporary-worker program, a
concept approved in the Senate but blocked by House Republicans who liken it to
amnesty.

"Willing workers ought to be matched with willing employers to do jobs Americans
are not doing, on a temporary basis," Bush said. "We must face the reality that
millions of illegal immigrants are already here. They should not be given an
automatic path to citizenship. That is amnesty. I oppose amnesty."

He said he would work with Congress for a "middle ground" between "granting an
automatic path to citizenship for every illegal immigrant and a program of mass
deportation."

Republican hard-liners indicated there may be no middle ground.

"Far be it from me to criticize an obsession," said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo.,
chairman of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. "But President Bush's
unhelpful fixation in giving amnesty to 12 million illegal aliens has done
nothing to help us in this debate."

In addition to the intraparty debate, Bush took heat Thursday from Democrats who
called the bill a "political stunt designed to cater to the (GOP's)
far-right-wing base."

"Although the bill passed Congress several weeks ago, the do-nothing GOP
congressional leadership held the bill until now so that they could use the
publicity for electoral gain heading into the upcoming elections," the
Democratic National Committee said in a statement.

Congress completed work on the bill Sept. 29 but did not send it to the White
House until Monday. Bush had 10 days to act on it, guaranteeing his signature in
the closing days of the congressional election campaigns.

The White House denied any politically motivated effort to delay the bill
signing.

"The president always planned to sign the bill," spokeswoman Dana Perino said.
"We just received the bill. Anyone who wanted to talk about their vote in favor
of the fence bill has been doing so since it passed."

Though he got far less than what he wanted on immigration, Bush played the
starring role -- with GOP leaders on hand -- at the signing ceremony.

Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, called the fencing "a big step forward in terms of
securing our border" in an interview with Fox News.

Although few hailed the measure as a solution, House Majority Leader John
Boehner, R-Ohio, called it "a major victory in Republicans' efforts to make a
real difference in securing our borders."

~ kherman@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 10, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW CONGRESS MAY ERASE IMMIGRATION HARD LINE

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Democratic takeover of the House could lead to a major change in the
nation's immigration laws, including a chance for millions of illegal immigrants
to become citizens, experts on both sides of the debate said Thursday.

''It eliminates the biggest roadblock to reform,'' said Cecilia Munoz, vice
president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil-rights
group in Washington.

House Republican leaders ''have been catering to the very loud but small
anti-immigrant faction in the party,'' she said.

Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that supports lower levels of immigration, agreed that the
chances for ''an amnesty for illegal aliens'' have increased significantly, but
that challenges still exist.

Many of the newly elected Democrats represent conservative districts and ran
campaigns that promised tough enforcement on illegal immigration.

''Democrats may come to find immigration as vexing an issue as Republicans found
it,'' Camarota said.

One key hard-liner on immigration who will be removed from an important position
is House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis. Sen. John
Cornyn, R-Texas, a key liaison to the White House on immigration, said
Sensenbrenner had been an impediment to a broader bill.

The Senate approved a bipartisan bill in May that would create a large temporary
worker program, increase levels of legal immigration and give many illegal
immigrants a chance to become legal residents and citizens. But House
Republicans refused to negotiate a compromise between that bill and a House
enforcement measure.

Under the Democratic takeover, Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., is in line to be
chairman of the Judiciary Committee.

Cornyn said he hopes a major bill will pass Congress next year.

''My hope is we'll roll up our sleeves and sit down and work out a bipartisan
bill that the president can sign,'' Cornyn said. ''This is the single most
important domestic priority of the federal government ... and something we
should have done a long time ago.''

Tamar Jacoby, an immigration expert with the conservative Manhattan Institute
for Policy Research in New York, said she was ''cautiously optimistic'' that a
major immigration bill will become law next year.

''Some of the biggest barriers have been swept away,'' she said. But the job
remains difficult and the outcome depends on whether Rep. Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., who is poised to become House speaker, will take on such a difficult
task and be willing to compromise with Republicans, Jacoby added.

In the current Congress, House Republicans took a hard line on illegal
immigration, pushing through legislation that would make illegal presence in the
United States a felony. They also pushed a measure to build 700 miles of fencing
along the U.S.-Mexico border that President Bush signed into law, even though he
prefers a broader approach that would give temporary visas to illegal
immigrants.

Bush met Thursday with Mexico's president-elect, Felipe Calderon, who has
denounced the border fence bill. Bush said the two leaders had an ''important
conversation.''

''We talked about trade. We talked about mutual interests, fighting drugs, and
we talked of course about migration,'' Bush said.

Bush's immigration stance has put him at odds with many members of his own party
who believe that allowing illegal immigrants any chance at legal status amounts
to amnesty.

Munoz and other immigrant advocates said the House Republican strategy backfired
by alienating Hispanics and moderate voters. According to exit polls, only 27
percent of Hispanic voters cast their ballots for House Republicans.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2006 Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION MORATORIUM REQUESTED

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States should stop deporting illegal immigrants and separating
families while Congress works on reforming immigration laws, a group of
lawmakers from Latin America and several Democratic House members said Thursday.

The delegates from Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua, on a two-day
visit to Capitol Hill, pledged to work with their U.S. counterparts to fix the
immigration system, which they said has led to a "family crisis" in Mexico and a
staggering loss of life along the border. They also promised to help improve
security, which they said was of paramount importance, especially after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

"About 550 Mexicans are dying (each year) in their effort to cross the border --
1.5 each day, an alarming number," said Jose Edmundo Ramirez Martinez, a member
of the Mexican Congress and secretary of the Commission on Population, Borders,
and Migration issues, at a Capitol Hill news conference.

The meetings between the U.S. and Latin American lawmakers upset some critics of
illegal immigration.

"Millions of people are working in this country illegally and sending home
billions of dollars in remittances," said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo, an
outspoken critic of illegal immigration. "Those dollars help to prop up corrupt
and incompetent governments."

emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run West.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH TAKES FIGHT FOR IMMIGRATION POLICY TO BORDER

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush, visiting the Mexican border in Arizona Monday, called on
Congress to work with him to pass a comprehensive bill that would give illegal
immigrants a pathway to citizenship and create a large temporary worker program.

But the bill faces challenges from both sides of the political spectrum.
Conservative Republicans object strongly that it amounts to amnesty, and labor
unions claim it would create a two-tier society. Raising further barriers is
Bush's increasingly strained relationship with the Democratic-controlled
Congress over the war in Iraq and other issues.

At a border post in Yuma, Bush, dressed casually in a blue shirt with rolled-up
sleeves, toured a section of the border sealed off with a 15-foot corrugated
metal fence and an area where construction workers were sinking a fence pole
into the ground.

He also saw an unmanned aerial drone used to watch the border and a camouflaged
vehicle covered with a radar-reflective screen. He climbed inside a truck
equipped with a night-vision scope atop a 20-foot pole.

Enforcement efforts, including more than doubling the budget for border security
and increasing the use of technology, have resulted in a 30 percent drop in the
number of people crossing the border, the president said in a speech.

Illegal immigration remains a serious problem that puts pressure on public
schools and hospitals, strains local and state budgets and brings crime to
communities, he said.

But Bush insisted that most illegal immigrants are "coming here to put food on
the table."

Deporting an estimated 12 million people would be impractical, and it "won't
happen," he said, pushing his plan as best for the immigrants and their
employers alike.

Bush's border appearance was intended to energize the immigration debate, and it
was aimed largely at members of his own party who believe that allowing illegal
immigrants any chance at legal status amounts to amnesty.

The White House has been working with key Republican senators, including John
Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, on a bill that includes border security
measures, an employment verification system and the legalization provisions.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said Monday that Democrats have
concerns about Bush's proposals but that they look forward to working closely
with him on "this issue of mutual concern."

The Senate expects to debate immigration in May, Reid said.

The challenge of finding consensus was made clear last week when word leaked
about some ideas the administration was pushing in private negotiations to
attract Republicans. They included charging illegal immigrants $3,500 for work
visas, allowing them permanent residency only after they returned home and paid
a $10,000 fine and barring visa holders' families from the U.S..

John Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO labor confederation, described the plan
as "deeply troubling" and said it would "put into law a two-tier society in
America, with immigrant workers perpetually stuck on the bottom rung."

Tamar Jacoby, an immigration expert with the conservative Manhattan Institute
for Policy Research in New York, said she hopes a major immigration bill could
become law this year. The bill needs at least 25 GOP senators and 40 to 50 House
Republicans to pass, she said.

But last week, 97 members of the House Immigration Reform Caucus, a mostly
Republican group pushing for stronger enforcement, wrote to House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, D-Calif., urging her to reject what they called any "amnesty" bill,
including the president's proposal.

"Rewarding illegal behavior sends the wrong message to the millions of people
around the world waiting their turn to legally come to the United States," said
Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., chairman of the caucus.

In addition, Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, the ranking GOP member of the House
Judiciary Committee, said, "Proposals that grant amnesty to illegal immigrants
only encourage others to enter illegally. Such legislation would create an
endless stream of guest workers who drive down wages and take the jobs of
American workers."

Democrats are also divided on the bill.

Many newly elected Democrats represent conservative districts and ran campaigns
that promised tough enforcement on illegal immigration. In addition, labor
unions are wary of guest worker proposals that could displace U.S. workers.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 JACK KURTZ/The Associated Press President Bush checks outa drone that helps
patrol the U.S.-Mexico border at the Yuma, Ariz., Marine Corps Air
StationMonday.Tighter security has slowed illegal immigration, Bush said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 4, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REFORM IS WHAT'S NEEDED, NOT PLACING BLAME

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 329 words


The recent column "Local immigration laws nibble at edges" (Ruben Navarrette
Jr., Nov. 20) is correct in placing the blame for out-of-control illegal
immigration on the many Americans who have blinked and ignored the illegals who
were breaking the law. I agree that you cannot blame people for striving for a
better life, especially when your actions show you're not serious in preventing
their illegal behavior.

I disagree with the writer in his assumption that this is racial. Thinking
people realize that the dangers looming in the future are real and threatening
to this country. To categorize their concerns and fears as racial is not 100
percent true because when the 11 million illegals become 50 million, this
country will have a tremendous problem. To consider just one aspect, consider
the balance of money that will result in the outflow exceeding the inflow. Most
economists would tell you this could cause bankruptcy when the outflow reaches a
certain point.

The columnist is half right when he places the blame where it should be, on the
"legal" Americans who have ignored and allowed this up to now. I believe he
misses the point of what's going to happen by assuming that the resentment is
all racial. It will be a very bad situation for the future of this country when
there are 10 or 20 times the number of illegals as now. Let's stop arguing that
it's illegal and a crime; rather, argue that it will hurt this country in the
long haul if we don't solve the problem.

The town of Hazleton, Pa., experienced a murder by an illegal immigrant, and
city officials may have overreacted. Those who blame the employers may be
overreacting because those critics also benefited from the cheap labor. The
point here is, the author is correct when he says, "This is a self-inflicted
wound." We shouldn't be blaming the immigrants, the employers who hire them or
government officials who do nothing. What we must do is solve the problem, not
place blame.

JAMES HAMLIN

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 25, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WAY FORWARD FOR BUSH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 459 words


For all of President Bush's talk last week about a lengthy agenda for his last
two years in office, there is a short list of legislation that he and the new
Democratic Congress realistically can compromise on during the next two years.
Right near the top is immigration reform.

The change of leadership in the House opens the possibility for debate on a
comprehensive plan that goes beyond enforcement measures and addresses the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already living here. President Bush has
proposed a guest-worker program and is amenable to Congress creating some path
to legal residency for the 12 million. Until now, he has found support only in
the Senate, with even large numbers of his own party in the House opposing
anything but border control and deportation.

Much changed in November, and yet much didn't. Many of the new House members,
from both parties, ran campaigns that staked positions as conservative on
immigration as the opponents they defeated. New House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., has said next to nothing about making immigration reform a priority.
While it's almost certain that the House will shift toward moderation and away
from the extremes of outgoing Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., and followers who tried to make illegal immigrants felons, it's still
unlikely that the shift will go far enough to reach the Senate's progressive
stand.

Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., have proposed a refined
version of a bill pushed by Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John McCain,
R-Ariz., that would create a guest-worker program and a path to legal status. If
passing comprehensive reform required only the Senate's vote and the president's
signature, however, it could have been done last summer. Rep. Tom Tancredo,
R-Colo. - the guy who called Miami a "Third World Country" - and other
anti-reform House members have promised to fight anything that resembles
amnesty, and, to them, that includes a guest-worker bill.

Mr. Bush says he is committed, by the end of next year, to having a plan on his
desk that would please U.S. businesses and U.S. Border Control, if not everyone
in the House. "If you're coming into America to do a job," he said during last
week's news conference, "you can come legally on a temporary basis to do so."

While Congress dithers, the issues remains, and keeps changing. Reporting by The
New York Times indicates that more Mexicans who used to make round trips are now
staying, because more have jobs that aren't seasonal and more are living farther
from the border. This is one debate the president can still lead, and on which
he must lead. It is one issue that, if conquered, still can be a meaningful part
of his otherwise dubious legacy.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGHER FEES AT THE DOOR, MORE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 399 words


Most of the immigration debate is about illegal immigration. But the federal
government needs to change legal immigration policy in ways that encourage
participation in the system, rather than drive more people underground.

But that's exactly what the Bush administration's plans to increase immigration
fees will do. Emilio Gonzalez, the director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, says his agency needs more money to cover the costs of upgrading its
computer systems and improving service. Applicants who have to wait months for
responses from CIS will appreciate the need to modernize technology. The agency
runs on its fees, so Mr. Gonzalez has legitimate reasons for raising his rates.
The sizes of the proposed increases, however, are indefensible.

For example, an immigrant seeking to apply for permanent legal status would have
to pay nearly three times as much - $905, instead of $325. To apply for
citizenship, an immigrant would have to pay $595, up from $330. Work permits
that now cost $180 a year would increase to $340. Overall, the agency is raising
rates by an average of 66 percent, a financial burden that immigrants with
low-wage jobs and families - who are most of the applicants - will find hard to
handle.

Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and other leading Democrats have
asked Mr. Gonzalez to justify the increases and disclose the methods the agency
used to calculate the new prices. Some of the lawmakers correctly believe that
CIS has too many new responsibilities and no longer can function on fees alone,
a business model that clearly has outlived its usefulness. Congress could fix
that by appropriating money directly to the agency and giving it a reasonable
budget to do a job that has grown more difficult with added security measures in
the wake of 9/11.

The unintended consequence of higher fees will be that more immigrants who want
to play by the rules will be priced out of the game. One of the worst mistakes
the government can make is to increase the illegal population by putting a
financial barrier around legal status. Congress and President Bush can come
together on a comprehensive reform bill this year, and Mr. Gonzalez's proposed
fees are another barrier to finding compromise.

The administration needs an enlightened approach that goes beyond erecting
fences and financial obstacles. Tripling fees will promote behavior no one
wants.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROGRESS ON IMMIGRATION, BUT SUCCESS STILL IN DOUBT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 449 words


Congress is closer to passing a comprehensive immigration reform bill than at
any time during the last two decades. But closer doesn't mean close.

As the debate begins to sharpen focus on the contentious details of a
guest-worker program and border security, advocates on all sides are staking out
positions of no retreat.

The week began with 35 conservative radio talk show hosts descending on
Washington for an event called "Hold Their Feet to the Fire." The commentators
came to the capital to rally opposition to legislation that would allow
"amnesty" to the 12 million illegal immigrants in the country. Defining amnesty
is half the debate. Conservatives say it is any path to legal status for people
who have entered illegally. Immigrant advocates believe proposals that would
impose fines, collect back taxes and put applicants in line for citizenship for
up to 11 years hardly qualify as amnesty.

A Washington Post poll found that 81 percent of people said the government isn't
doing enough to stop illegal immigration, but 62 percent also said illegal
immigrants already in the country should keep their jobs and get a chance at
legal status. On Tuesday, the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that
wants less immigration, released a report that found that out-of-wedlock births
among Hispanic immigrants have more than doubled since 1980, a trend that
reflects the rate among native-born Americans. The implication is that illegal
immigrants do not have the strong family values President Bush and other
immigration advocates claim.

The Brookings Institution points out that the U.S.-born labor force will decline
as Baby Boomers age, and the country will need foreign workers to fill the gap.
The Washington-based think tank invited Reps. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., to discuss their bipartisan reform bill called the Security
Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act. It has the blessing
of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and the guest-worker program the White
House wants. Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John Kyl, R-Ariz., are
collaborating on a Senate version.

U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez is telling business groups that
"comprehensive immigration reform is no longer a question of if, but when and
how." It is also a question of how much. A sticking point is the size of fines
for illegal immigrants. A fine too high will keep them from participating in the
program; a fine too low won't satisfy moderate lawmakers who need political
cover to embrace reform and fight off conservative radio talk show hosts.

Mr. Gutierrez may be right that comprehensive reform is coming, but whether it's
close is an open question.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN SLAMS GOP FOES ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 308 words


Sen. John McCain dismissed Mitt Romney's and Rudy Giuliani's opposition to
proposed immigration reform Friday and chastised them for not offering their own
proposals to deal with illegal immigration.

"If you think this is no good, this compromise that has been forged with the
leadership of the president of the United States and conservatives and liberals
in both parties, then what is your proposal that will pass the Congress of the
United States?" McCain asked of his opponents in the race for the Republican
presidential nomination.

A day earlier, Romney, speaking to reporters in Lakeland, said he opposed the
U.S. Senate immigration bill because he believes it is unfair to legal
immigrants who have "waited in line" for the chance to stay in this country.

And last week, Giuliani told reporters in Orlando that he does not support the
current legislation because there is not a provision for a "tamper-proof"
identification card and a national database to track immigrants.

The bill allows the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants to get
legal status by paying fines and passing background checks. Heads of households
also wouldbe required to return to their home country.

McCain said Friday that it could take eight years for an immigrant to win legal
status.

McCain, the senior U.S. senator from Arizona, is the only one of the top three
Republican candidates for president who supports the proposed legislation.

Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, and Giuliani, the former mayor of
New York, have not offered any detailed plans for how they would reform
immigration laws, a point that McCain sharply criticized Friday.

"It's the easiest thing in the world to say no to things," said McCain. "My job
is to do the hard things."

McCain will be in Miami on June 4 to give a major speech on immigration.

- brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 John McCain (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE'S IMMIGRATION BILL NOT PERFECT, BUT PRACTICAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 435 words


Much of the debate over immigration reform in the Senate has degenerated into
testy exchanges over the meaning of "amnesty."

Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the lead brokers of the bipartisan bill on the
floor, argues that giving legal status to the nation's esimated 12 million
illegal immigrants can't be amnesty as long as they are penalized. The bill
would require them to pay fines and back taxes, learn English, clear background
checks and get into a line for permanent status that's at least 13 years long.
"This," Sen. Kennedy says correctly, "is not amnesty."

On the other side, Sen. David Vitter, R-La., claims that any proposal that falls
short of requiring illegal immigrants to leave the country rewards them for
breaking the law. "This is amnesty, pure and simple," Sen. Vitter says. "What it
means is creating a magnet to increase illegal activity into the country."
Strange bedfellows are everywhere in the debate, including the White House.
President Bush sides with Sen. Kennedy: "This bill does not grant amnesty.
Amnesty is forgiveness without penalty."

When polled, Americans consistently have voiced the same opinion. Their
overwhelming response is that the senators have the right plan, right in front
of them. A New York Times/CBS News poll released last week found that 62 percent
of Americans believe that illegal immigrants in the country for two years should
be allowed to apply for legal status. Sixty-six percent support a guest-worker
program, and 67 percent say that illegal immigrants who have clean records
should be allowed renewable visas. Americans also believe that job skills and
experience should carry more weight than family connections in deciding who gets
admitted into the country.

These are the core principles in the bill brokered by Sen. Kennedy and 11 others
from both parties, the so-called "Gang of 12" that is trying to keep the deal
together. Among them is Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., chairman of the Republican
Party and the Senate's only immigrant, from Cuba. Sen. Martinez has put the
debate on practical terms with opponents. "If you don't like this bill," he
asks, "then what's your solution?" In fact, there is no practical alternative.
Deporting 12 million people isn't an option.

On Thursday, the Senate may have implicitly accepted the bill by rejecting, with
an overwhelming 66-29 vote, an amendment that would have eliminated the
legalization plan. Congress is coming to the conclusion that the status quo is
unacceptable, and realizing that most of the nation will support an imperfect
but promising attempt to solve the illegal immigration problem.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

STUART PROTESTERS DEBATE IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By NICOLE JANOK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: STUART


Dozens of American flags flapped in the brisk wind Wednesday evening as
protesters gathered along the Roosevelt Bridge to rally against proposed federal
immigration reform.

It was the second time in as many weeks that up to 150 people lined the east
side of the bridge holding signs that denounced amnesty for illegal immigrants
and called for them to return home.

"If you broke the law to get into our country, you really don't have the right
to be here," organizer Sue Hilton said.

Since Hilton started the campaign last week with a friend, their efforts have
transformed into a grass-roots campaign they dubbed Bridges Across America.

The women started a Web site calling for towns nationwide to start their own
bridge protests, and their group won the support of statewide anti-immigration
reform groups such as Floridians for Immigration Enforcement.

Hilton and her supporters hope their efforts will spread across the nation and
help stop the proposed bill, which would give an estimated 12 million
undocumented residents a chance at legal status, while tightening border
security and workplace enforcement issues.

Senators have until June to debate the bill, which President Bush has championed
as a sweeping reform but also has been criticized by both ends of the political
spectrum.

Those who have joined the weekly protests say illegal immigrants drain taxpayers
by receiving free education, health care and social services.

"I just don't like to pay for somebody else to get a free ride," Palm City
resident Julius Pflum said, recalling the story of his grandparents' difficult
immigration from Austria-Hungary to Ellis Island.

While some protesters said they want tougher border control before immigration
reform is addressed, others said all illegal immigrants should be sent back to
their home country and allowed to return for a legal naturalization process.

"If they want to live here, work here and be a part of the American dream, they
have to show their support of the American dream in the same way the rest of us
do," Stuart resident Ray Arnold said.

A "Honk for No Amnesty" sign prompted some U.S. 1 motorists to sound their
horns.

In response to last week's protest, a small group of activists gathered at the
foot of the bridge Wednesday, holding signs promoting equal rights and
exchanging tense words with the anti-immigration reform group. Port St. Lucie
resident Hope Freid said he felt some of the protesters' statements were racist
and plans to continue attending to oppose their efforts.

But Hilton said the rallies are not meant to attack any specific ethnic group.

"It's unfair to use the race card, because America is the most generous country
in the world," she said.

~ nicole_janok@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 MEGHAN McCARTHY/Staff Photographer Rachel Kijewski (right) holds a sign in
favor of proposed federal immigration reform.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GIVE ILLEGALS ALREADY HERE AMNESTY; THEN TIGHTEN LAW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 263 words


The immigration compromise recently reached is unworkable ("Deal struck on
visas, borders," May 18). It is time for amnesty. I oppose the massive, silent
invasion of illegal immigrants. They knowingly or unknowingly have flouted the
United States' immigration laws. They have burdened our schools and social
services. In some instances, they have depressed wages. Despite all of this, I
support amnesty for those who are now here.

For decades, the entire society has either winked at or ignored the arrival of
illegal immigrants. Employers have not carefully checked papers. The government
failed to enforce existing laws. The entire country is responsible for the
presence of more than 12 million illegals.

Deporting these families would stain America's moral stature. The proposed
immigration reform calls for a torturous road to citizenship that would require
a huge and ineffective bureaucracy. How would proficiency in English be tested?
How would the government keep track of all the applicants? These provisions are
unworkable, mean-spirited and very expensive. If enacted, it would be a case of
cutting off one's nose to spite one's face. It is in everyone's interest to
support amnesty.

Nevertheless, for the sake of the U.S., this massive and unregulated immigration
must be stopped. The best ways to humanely halt this deluge are to enact and
enforce strong sanctions on employers who would, in the future, hire illegal
immigrants, to secure the borders and to withhold all but emergency services to
illegals who would come after this amnesty.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDIANS BACK EASING IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By DEANA POOLE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 970 words


Most Floridians believe immigration reform should allow certain illegal
immigrants the chance to become U.S. citizens, according to a recent statewide
poll.

A Zogby International poll conducted recently for The Palm Beach Post and other
news organizations also indicates that most believe that illegal immigrants
don't take away jobs from citizens but rather take jobs no one else wants.

"Florida is first and foremost an immigrant state," said John Zogby, president
of Zogby International. "It welcomes immigrants from foreign shores. It also
welcomes immigrants from pretty much every other place in the country."

It's an important issue to Floridians -- more important than property insurance,
traffic congestion and schools, according to the poll results. It ranked third
behind health care and property taxes.

The poll was conducted Monday through Wednesday, as lawmakers in Washington
debated a proposed overhaul to the nation's immigration laws. The bill was
withdrawn in the Senate Thursday, but Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.,
has said he hopes to revive the issue.

Florida Sens. Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson both voted in favor of the bill's
passage.

On the floor of the Senate late Thursday, Martinez vowed to keep fighting. "I am
going to remain committed to this because I believe we owe it to the American
people to tackle this very important decision."

Martinez said he was disappointed for the country, for those who believe that
the borders need to be safer and for employers who want to ensure their workers
are legal.

"But I'm more disappointed for all the families that are out there tonight
wondering what is going to happen to them, how is this going to affect them --
the people that fix the cars, the people that mow the lawns at the golf club,
the people that make the hotel beds in central Florida for tourists to go to
Disney World ... the people that harvest the citrus crop, all of those people
that do all of those services and jobs that also have themselves the anxiety of
wondering what's going to happen to them."

More than half of those polled -- 58 percent -- didn't believe illegal
immigrants take jobs away from citizens but rather do work no one else wants to
do.

U.S. Rep. Ron Klein, D-Boca Raton, said the issue of employing illegal
immigrants is more complicated than "would you pick fruit or not."

People who are here illegally are being paid less, aren't paying taxes and are
too afraid to report their unfair wages, he said.

"I think in part it depresses the value of that service," Klein said. "I think
if people understood that, people wouldn't be so excited about it."

The poll found strong support for elements of the Senate's failed plan. Sixty
percent of participants agreed that immigration reform should include a path
toward citizenship for most illegal immigrants with no criminal record, if they
pay a $5,000 fine and wait their turn behind legal immigrants to apply for
permanent residency.

Mike Fillichio, 68, of Boynton Beach was among those polled. He said he didn't
have a problem with illegal immigrants having a path toward citizenship. But he
did have a problem with how they would begin that path.

"If the term is illegal, they broke the law," he said. "They're starting off as
criminals."

Fred Hotujec of Wellington also was in the poll. He called the Senate's now-dead
proposal "too complicated," and said it skirted the biggest issue.

"Secure the borders first ... then you work out any plan that might be
acceptable," he said.

Pollsters also asked which category of people should have priority when deciding
to allow immigrants into the country. A little more than 42 percent said those
with family ties in the country should have priority, followed by those with
high-tech skills at 24 percent.

Ken Lundberg, a spokesman with Martinez's office, said: "Certainly the numbers
are encouraging and reflect other polls that we've seen from around the nation."

Opinions about immigration

A Zogby International poll for The Palm Beach Post and other news organizations
found majority support among Floridians for immigration reform leading to
citizenship for most illegal immigrants. The poll, conducted Monday through
Wednesday, sampled 801 likely voters and has a margin of error of 3.5 percentage
points. Here are the results:

Do you strongly agree, somewhat agree, somewhat disagree or strongly disagree
that immigration reform should include a path toward citizenship for most
illegal immigrants with no criminal record if they pay a $5,000 fine and wait
their turn behind legal immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency?
Somewhat agree                                                              26%
Strongly agree                                                              34%
Strongly disagree                                                           31%
Somewhat disagree                                                            6%
Not sure                                                                     2%
Do you believe that illegal immigrants take jobs away from U.S. citizens
and legal residents, or do illegal immigrants take jobs no one else wants?
Take jobs no one else wants                                                 58%
Take jobs away from U.S. citizens                                           35%
Not sure                                                                     8%
Which category of people should have priority when deciding to allow
immigrants into the United States?
Those with family ties in the country                                       42%
Those with high-tech skills                                                 24%
Those who do low-skilled work that most U.S. citizens
and legal residents don't want to do                                        15%
Other                                                                       11%
Not sure                                                                     8%
<NEWLINE>Do you believe that illegal immigrants take jobs away from U.S.    58%
citizens and legal residents, or do illegal immigrants take jobs no one
else wants?<NEWLINE>Take jobs no one else wants
Take jobs away from U.S. citizens                                           35%
Not sure                                                                     8%
<NEWLINE>Which category of people should have priority when deciding to     42%
allow immigrants into the United States?<NEWLINE>Those with family ties in
the country
Those with high-tech skills                                                 24%
Those who do low-skilled work that most U.S. citizens
and legal residents don't want to do                                        15%
Other                                                                       11%
Not sure                                                                     8%

Note: Numbers may not total 100% because of rounding.

CHRISTOPHER SMITH/Staff Artist

~ deana_poole@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FENCES NOT GOOD NEIGHBORS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 299 words


Critics of the plan to build a fence along the U.S.-Mexico border to stop
illegal migration have dismissed it as a simplistic approach for dealing with a
complex problem.

Simplistic, yes. But simple? Apparently not.

Federal officials admitted last month that the government had built a 5-foot
vehicle barrier that stretches 1.5 miles along the border west of Columbus,
N.M., in the wrong place -- in Mexico. A survey this year determined that the
barrier wanders into Mexican soil by 1 to 6 feet. The government built it in
2000 and miscalculated exactly where the border ran.

Mexico's Foreign Relations Department has sent a diplomatic note to the United
States complaining about the intrusion. U.S. Customs and Border Protection
officials have apologized, and say the government will remove the barrier and
put it where it belongs. The cost to U.S. taxpayers could run as high as $3
million. Besides preventing vehicles from crossing into the United States, the
barrier is designed to keep cattle from enjoying international travel.

The gaffe by government surveyors isn't any more embarrassing than the failure
of Congress last month to work out a compromise on comprehensive immigration
reform. Polls show that Americans, by a 2-to-1 margin, believe the status quo on
immigration policy is unacceptable. But lawmakers have planted their political
fences along party lines and ensured that meaningful reform can't happen until
after the 2008 election.

The recent car-bombing attempts in Britain show the limitations of fences.
Barriers along the U.S.-Mexico border might keep day laborers from entering
illegally, but professionals such as Britain's doctor bombers can find ways to
exploit the system and enter legally. There are no simple answers to securing
borders or reforming immigration policy.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGHLY SKILLED, AND NOT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 360 words


Debate in Washington over immigration reform has focused narrowly on migrants
from south of the border, the unskilled workers who make up most of the nation's
12 million illegal residents.

Often lost in the discussion are highly educated and skilled immigrants who seek
to come here from all over the world. Many of them work as medical or high-tech
professionals. Few of these immigrants cross borders illegally. Most enter on
temporary visas and then face long waits for permanent residency.

The government does as poorly dealing with these immigrants as it does those who
jump the U.S.-Mexico border. That became apparent last week when immigration
officials abruptly changed their mind and withdrew 60,000 employment-based visas
they had promised to make available for high-skilled immigrants. People who have
been working legally and waiting in the country for year saw a rare opportunity
for permanent status and green cards evaporate without warning or explanation.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association was outraged and called the
reversal a cruel "hoax." But it probably was just more bureaucratic incompetence
from the government. The State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services wound up blaming each other in particular and miscommunication in
general for the gaffe. The State Department, which promised the visas in June,
apparently didn't check with CIS, which is in charge of processing them. CIS, a
division of Homeland Security, said the government already had reached its quota
for visas and no more could be made available. Some immigration lawyers suspect
officials were trying to increase revenues by pushing the 60,000 applicants into
next year, when processing fees are scheduled to rise 60 percent. Who knows? The
AILA hopes a class-action lawsuit can find out.

Like the backlogged mess with passports, the flap over visas raises doubts about
the government's ability to manage the sweeping programs immigration reformers
have proposed. If the government can't keep track of 60,000 visas, how could it
bring 12 million illegal immigrants into a credible system? Right now, there's
no reason to believe Washington could.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POTENTIAL DEPORTEES LYING LOW

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA and DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1404 words


Lydia, an undocumented worker from Bolivia, points at a partition in her mobile
home in a Palm Beach County trailer park.

"We have thought of building a false wall there," she says of herself, her
husband and young daughter. "A space maybe a foot and half wide and long enough
for the three of us, just in case they come looking for us."

"They" are immigration authorities making sweeps to pick up undocumented
individuals. Lydia -- not her real name -- concedes that those immigration
agents do not want to harm her or her loved ones physically.

"They don't want to send us to concentration camps either," she says. "But still
you start thinking the way the Jews thought in the time of Nazis. You are always
thinking of the need to hide."

Undocumented people working throughout South Florida and the nation had hopes
this year that they no longer would have to "hide in plain sight" as they do
now.

But on June 28, bipartisan efforts to pass a massive immigration reform bill
collapsed in the U.S. Senate. The new law would have put some 12 million
undocumented individuals, such as Lydia and about 200 other families in her
trailer park, on the path to legal residency.

Lydia and her family have been here about eight years, and some of her neighbors
twice as long, many of them working in agriculture, landscaping, construction,
roofing and house cleaning.

"The day it failed, there were a lot of tears around here," Lydia says.

The bill, which President Bush supported, was attacked from both the right and
left and finally scuttled on a procedural vote. The main criticism was that it
granted a form of amnesty to individuals who had entered the country illegally.
That criticism won the day, even though the bill contained provisions for fines,
the need to leave the country eventually to apply for permanent residence, a
13-year wait for citizenship and billions of dollars in increased immigration
enforcement.

Since the demise of the legislation, the already precarious lives of
undocumented workers have been thrown into greater turmoil.

Rafael, 28, originally from Mexico, was detained last year in Miami-Dade where
he traveled with his employer to do construction work. Security guards on Fisher
Island, one of the wealthiest enclaves in the U.S., unexpectedly asked for proof
of citizenship, he says. When he couldn't produce it, immigration authorities
were called, says Rafael who was detained and eventually given a deportation
date of Sept. 19.

Recently married and having just bought his own trailer for $4,000, he had hoped
the immigration reform bill would save him. But the bill failed.

"On that day, I lost my life," he says somberly. He and his wife plan to accept
the deportation order, and after seven years of steady work in the U.S., during
which he says he has paid taxes and Social Security religiously, he will return
to a very uncertain future in Mexico.

'People are scared'

That very fate -- to be identified and listed for deportation -- terrifies other
undocumented workers, most of whom face return to lives of deep poverty in their
native countries.

For example: Since the immigration bill failed, Our Lady of Perpetual Help
Catholic Church in Delray Beach, which serves the Haitian community, has seen
its congregation diminish considerably.

After the bill died, false rumors circulated that Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents were raiding churches. Now many believers are staying home on
Sundays, even though the immigration agency never has detained anyone in or
around the church, says the pastor, the Rev. Roland Desormeaux.

Haiti is the poorest and one of the most crime-ridden nations in the hemisphere,
and parishioners call Desormeaux, begging him to help keep them from being
deported.

"People are scared. It's very heavy on their shoulders," he says.

Some undocumented immigrants are so worried that they are virtual prisoners in
their own homes, afraid to run simple errands such as trips to the grocery.

"They pay other people who are legal to go buy their groceries for them," says
Mara Martinez, who works at the Guatemala Maya Center in Lake Worth. "They are
afraid immigration will arrive at the stores."

Many pregnant immigrants are afraid to visit clinics for regular prenatal visits
and wait until late in the pregnancy or the birth to seek care, social service
professionals say.

This always has been a problem in the undocumented community, but it has gotten
worse of late.

"If the rumor runs that immigration agents have been anywhere around a clinic,
the women won't go," Martinez says.

The Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition of Palm Beach County sends
employees into the minority communities to spread the word that these mothers
will not be turned over to immigration authorities, but it doesn't always work.

"They're afraid to reach out," Cathy Cohn, president and CEO of the
organization, said of the mothers. "They often think that by putting off
prenatal care and just walking in and having the baby, it will be better, but,
in fact, it hurts everybody because it costs everyone. The woman, the baby, the
taxpayers."

Enforcement beefs up

The wave of fear is a far cry from spring 2006 when many undocumented workers,
both in Florida and nationwide, staged large demonstrations for immigration
reform.

Those demonstrations energized the attempt to pass an immigration reform bill,
but they also provoked voters and office holders who were "anti-amnesty" to
press for more money for stricter enforcement of immigration laws.

"When the word got out that there were 12 million undocumented in the country,
certain people decided, 'We have to get rid of them,'" says immigration attorney
Judith Ballen of West Palm Beach.

In the end, the reform bill failed, and undocumented workers ended up with no
new protections and many more agents hunting them.

In June 2006, Immigration and Customs Enforcement opened its Fugitive Support
Operations Center in Burlington, Vt., which targets undocumented people who have
used their legal remedies and have been ordered deported but have not left the
country. As of this month, about 630,000 people were on that list.

The center has produced 150,000 leads during the past year, the agency says.
More than 17,000 people were deported in 2006.

"We've tripled the number of our fugitive operations teams nationwide," says
Barbara Gonzalez, the agency's spokeswoman in Miami, speaking of field officers
who track the leads.

The agency focuses primarily on "those persons who present national security and
public safety threats," Gonzalez says.

They include undocumented people who are sexual predators, gang members, people
smugglers and others who have been involved in criminal activities.

But she emphasizes that, just because a person doesn't fit into any of those
categories doesn't mean he shouldn't worry about the immigration agency.

"Those who are in the country illegally shouldn't be surprised if they are
arrested," Gonzalez says. "If in the course of exercising our law enforcement
activities (involving warrants or deportation orders) we find people who are in
the country illegally, it doesn't mean we are going to turn our faces away. We
will arrest them."

Members of the immigrant population interviewed around Palm Beach County say
they have all experienced the increased enforcement during the past year.

"You hear about people being detained all the time," says Ana Matias, 31, of
Palm Beach Gardens, a Guatemalan in the U.S. legally, whom many undocumented
acquaintances consult. "Many people here wake up full of fear and go to bed at
night full of fear."

Lydia, the woman living in the trailer park, also fears being sent back to
Bolivia, another one of the poorest countries in the hemisphere. She and her
neighbors worry since immigration agents, known as la migra, drove through the
park in June, as many as three times. Fear has changed the ambience in the
trailer park, she says.

On a pleasant summer evening, an hour before sunset, Lydia looks out the trailer
door onto empty paved streets.

"There are 92 kids from this park who go to the local elementary school, and at
this hour in the summer, the streets here were once full of children playing,"
she says. "Now people are keeping their children inside.

"They are worried," she says. "There are younger children here who are just
learning to speak, and one of the first words they can say is 'migra.' That
gives you the idea."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer Like others in their Palm Beach County
trailer park, 'Lydia,' an undocumented worker from Bolivia (right), and her
husband live in fear that immigration authorities will nab them. 2. (B&W) ALLEN
EYESTONE/Staff Photographer 'Rafael,' from Mexico, had hoped that the
immigration reform bill would save him. He and his wife are set to be deported
Sept. 19.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NAVARRETTE'S 'DIVERSITY' SOUNDS LIKE SEPARATISM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 179 words


Columnist Ruben Navarrette Jr., based upon what I have read in his past columns,
appears to be an open-borders advocate who sees little difference between legal
and illegal immigration. In his recent column, "Embrace diversity or wither"
(Monday), he refers to himself as a Mexican-American, which I think provides a
partial explanation for his naming as "racists" those who oppose diversity.

I think diversity is just a euphemism for open borders. I am a legal immigrant
from Britain, and since my naturalization as an American citizen, I never have
referred to myself as a British-American. I am not a hyphenated American, I am
an American; and I travel with a passport that states that I am a citizen of the
United States.

As a legal immigrant, it would be hypocritical of me not to support legal
immigration, and the millions of legal immigrants admitted into this country
have been a tremendous asset. Their contribution was a result of assimilation,
not diversification. Diversification implies separatism, and separatism did not
make this country great.

TOM CHAPPELL

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TO STAY IN U.S., GRAB A BOOK OR RIFLE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 626 words


Except for Halliburton shareholders, broadcast gab freaks and Al-Qaeda
recruiters, it's hard to find people who are benefitting from the war in Iraq.

You certainly would not expect the children of illegal immigrants to wind up in
the ever-shortening Iraq winners column. But, strangely enough, some of them
might.

A chain of unintended consequences that reaches from here to Baghdad could have
a beneficial link for college-bound illegal immigrants. It goes like this:

As the war moves into its fifth year, the strain on the U.S. military is growing
intolerable. And the Army can't make recruiting quotas. And Congress --
especially Republicans who support the war effort -- are inclined to take
extraordinary measures to fill uniforms. And one of the leftover ideas from the
summer's failed attempt at immigration reform is called the Development, Relief
and Education for Alien Minors Act.

The Dream Act, as it is popularly known, calls for giving permanent residency to
illegal immigrants who complete two years of college or two years of military
service.

And so, conservative lawmakers who otherwise might recoil at the thought of
giving even limited amnesty to illegal students have no problem at all saying
yes if part of the deal also involves giving amnesty to illegal soldiers.

The Pentagon has about run out of ways to lower recruiting standards -- the Army
has turned to offering $20,000 enlistment bonuses to 42-year-olds and overweight
high school dropouts -- and is desperate to put bodies in uniforms. This is the
wrong time to make immigration status a barrier to service, when it seems almost
nothing else is.

And so, as a political trade-off for helping restock the military, as many as
300,000 young illegal immigrants in the United States could get the chance to go
to college without fear of deportation and remain here permanently. Of course,
they also would get the chance to serve in Iraq.

About 5,000 illegal immigrants graduate from Florida high schools each year, and
among them are some of the most gifted students the state produces. Nationally
acclaimed Dreyfoos School of the Arts in West Palm Beach has graduated dozens of
talented, high-achieving illegal immigrants through the years and then watched
them enter a scholastic limbo.

They do not qualify for in-state tuition rates, and without Social Security
numbers, they can't get scholarships, loans or work. Worse, because the federal
government tightened restrictions on foreign enrollment at colleges after Sept.
11, illegal students fear deportation for even applying to schools.

Advocates for the Dream Act make the compelling argument that promising college
students are exactly the kind of immigrants the nation wants and needs. They
have a high probability of success, have a lot to contribute and have stayed out
of trouble.

Lawmakers on the right long have argued that U.S. immigration policy should give
priority to educated immigrants who bring skills into the economy. These are
those immigrants, and the government is casting them aside.

Children who were brought into the country illegally by their parents don't
deserve punishment for decisions that were out of their control. Among GOP
senators who have supported versions of Dream Act legislation proposed during
the past five years are Utah's Orrin Hatch and Kansas' Sam Brownback.
Republicans don't come much more conservative than that.

"We have a chance to either keep these talented young people underground," Sen.
Hatch says, "or give them a chance to contribute to the United States."

Immigrants who dream of a college education may end up doing their dreaming in
Iraq. For many, it is a price worth paying.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PRO-AMNESTY MARTINEZ UNFIT FOR U.S. SENATE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 142 words


Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., once again has chosen to support illegal amnesty. He
would grant citizenship to all illegals and their families. Florida citizens who
voted and worked for the senator (I was one) now find that he is pro-illegal
alien. In other words, break the laws of the United States and he supports you
as an equal to legal immigrants. This is not the person I want representing me
in the Senate.

A recent example is his support of the DREAM Act ("Immigrant kids lose chance
for citizenship," Oct. 25), which would have allowed 4.4million illegal aliens
to end up receiving a de facto amnesty. I will not vote for him again. I am sure
there will be a candidate who, unlike Sen. Martinez, supports the rule of law. I
am the son of a legal immigrant and welcome all who want to come to the U.S. the
right way.

JOSEPH R. SWIERCZEWSKI

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PROVOKED BY...NATIONAL NEW Sunday BACK TALK LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 4, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EDITORIAL ENCOURAGES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, ABUSIVE PRACTICES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 316 words


The Post's editorial "End the new slavery" (Jan. 28) is just another example of
the paper's pro-illegal immigration policy.

First, let me say, the way the immigrants were treated in the article is totally
illegal and immoral. No human being should be treated like a slave. With that
being said, The Post's position only encourages this kind of abuse. We have
immigration laws, created in 1986, when we granted amnesty to 2.7 million
illegal immigrants. It is illegal for any employer to hire illegal immigrants;
it is illegal for an employer not to pay federal payroll taxes for employees; it
is illegal for any individual to enter this country without authorization from
our government; and it is illegal for any individual to posses fraudulent Social
Security papers and other government documents.

These laws are not enforced. The editorial commended Lake Worth for working to
create a day labor center near its shuffleboard courts. Who do you think is
picking up these immigrants? Do you think these employers pay a living wage and
pay payroll taxes? Do you think these employers have humane working conditions?

Because everyone looks the other way, employers are encouraged to exploit
immigrants and create an atmosphere that leads to abuse. There is no fear of
severe financial penalty, loss of business license or public exposure. When we
had child-labor abuse problems in the early 1900s, we created and enforced
stronger penalties against employers for such behavior and publicly exposed
these employers, and it worked.

The definition of insanity is to do the same thing over and over and expect a
different result. The Post encourages illegal immigration, looks the other way
when employers hire illegal immigrants and urges rights for illegal immigrants
and then is surprised that more illegal immigrants come to Florida. This
certainly sounds like insanity to me.

PETER BRENNAN

South Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO IMMIGRATION REFORM, JUST SOME CAMPAIGN ADS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 482 words


State Rep. Gayle Harrell, R-Stuart, is running for Congress, which explains her
grandiose, politically expedient crusade to push immigration bills through the
Legislature.

Rep. Harrell is sponsoring House Bill 821. It would require local authorities to
take on federal roles and report illegal immigrants to the U.S. Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The bill also would prohibit local
governments from supporting day-labor centers, such as El Sol in Jupiter and
similar operations under consideration in Lake Worth and West Palm Beach. Rep.
Harrell is teaming with Rep. Don Brown, R-DeFuniak Springs, to back other
immigration measures, among them a bill that would prohibit municipalities from
acting as "sanctuary cities" for illegal immigrants -- even though Rep. Harrell
admits that she knows of no sanctuary city in Florida.

The rationale Rep. Harrell offers is the state's budget problem. Florida, she
says, can't afford to spend money on services for illegal immigrants. In fact,
Florida can't afford to take on all the costly federal responsibilities that
Rep. Harrell and her allies want the state to assume. Her costly proposals,
which have little chance of advancing, are campaign commercials for her bid to
defeat U.S. Rep. Tim Mahoney, D-Palm Beach Gardens, in the fall.

Rep. Harrell's attack on the Jupiter labor center is particularly wrongheaded.
Centers such as El Sol get criticized for tolerating unlawful behavior.
Actually, they keep laws from being broken. El Sol has taught scores of
immigrants, who are often targets because they carry cash, how to use banks and
avoid street muggings. The center protects employers and homeowners from scams
and shoddy work; it protects workers from unsafe job sites and dishonest
employers. El Sol has reduced traffic hazards by moving meetings between
employers and workers off street corners.

Because of the links between the center and the Guatemalan and Mexican
communities, immigrants are more willing to come forward, report crimes and
assist police. English classes at El Sol have helped hundreds understand the
local ordinances and laws they're obliged to follow. The center stimulates
business and generates taxes that fuel the local economy.

Most of what Rep. Harrell offers as facts about immigration she appears to get
from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, whose mission is to " ...
promote immigration levels consistent with the national interest -- more
traditional rates of about 300,000 a year." A new study by the Pew Research
Center projects that Hispanics will make up 29 percent of the U.S. population by
2050. It's up to Congress, not the states, to pass comprehensive immigration
reform to deal with this historic demographic shift.

If the federal government did its job, El Sol wouldn't be needed, and Floridians
would be spared the hollow pandering of such politicians as Gayle Harrell.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COOPERATION WORKING ON STATE'S ILLEGAL INMATES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 469 words


U.S. immigration officials have deported nearly 2,000 more illegal immigrants
from Florida this year than during the same six-month period in 2007, a 50
percent increase that is on pace to far surpass anything seen in the last
decade.

As of July 1, Immigration and Customs Enforcement had deported 5,889 people from
the state, compared with 3,942 a year ago. ICE attributes much of the increase
to deportations of inmates in federal, state and county custody. Authorities say
1,251 inmates - roughly 20 percent of all those deported - were facing criminal
charges. Their offenses included assault with a deadly weapon, kidnapping, money
laundering and sex crimes. Many also were deported after being arrested for
lesser offenses, such as traffic violations or trespassing.

Deporting inmates makes sense during good times. It makes even more sense during
tough economic times and an excruciatingly tight budget year. It can cost up to
$20,000 annually to incarcerate an offender, not including the expense of moving
defendants through the judicial system. When law enforcement, prosecutors and
immigration officials work together to get plea deals and settle cases involving
illegal immigrants in a fair but expeditious manner, the taxpayers benefit.
Ironically, so do some of the offenders who have committed less serious crimes.
They can return to their homelands without penalty instead of serving out
sentences in the United States.

Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw says partnerships with immigration
officials have grown in recent months. ICE has office space in the county jail
and keeps track of foreign-born inmates. Sheriff Bradshaw says that illegal
immigrants make up 15 percent to 20 percent of the jail's daily population of
3,000 inmates. Other jails - in Collier and Miami-Dade counties, for example -
have illegal immigrant numbers that often can exceed 40 percent. About 5,000
illegal immigrants are in the state's prisons.

Sheriff Bradshaw also credits ICE agents with playing an important role in South
Florida's anti-gang initiatives - especially efforts against Latin and Haitian
gangs. Federal authorities say illegal immigrants with criminal records, not
surprisingly, are more likely to commit more crimes, and typically victimize
their immigrant neighborhoods. The Sur 13 gang, whose leaders were arrested in
December, had been terrorizing just that type of neighborhood near West Palm
Beach.

Immigrant advocates complain that, too often, due process can suffer in the rush
to resolve cases and deport offenders. Law enforcement authorities should not
sacrifice fairness to open up jail space, but this is one part of the
immigration issue on which there should be fairly wide agreement. Deporting
illegal immigrant inmates is the right approach to help relieve crowding and
tight budgets.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAY OFF THE GUEST WORKER WE WANT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 671 words


It's hard to find anything that makes sense about U.S. immigration policy these
days. As if Congress hasn't messed things up enough, the Justice Department has
contributed to the absurd theater by prosecuting ridiculous cases.

Here is one.

Ten years ago, Pedro Zapeta came to this country illegally from Guatemala. He
wound up in Stuart, and became perhaps the greatest dishwasher the city has ever
had.

He washed dishes at Alice's Restaurant, Chantal's cafe, Koi Japanese Restaurant,
Shell's and Wahoo's on the waterfront, among others. If you dined in Stuart more
than a few times in the past decade, odds are you've eaten off one of his
plates.

Mr. Zapeta also did landscaping work on the side. He worked two jobs at a time,
never earning more than $7.50 an hour. Through Spartan frugality only a
Guatemalan would understand, Mr. Zapeta was able to save as much as he spent,
and hid the cash in the room he shared with other immigrants.

By September 2005, he had saved about $60,000. He decided that it was time to
return to his family in the village of Totonicapan and use the money to start a
business. For him, it was the fortune of a lifetime.

He bought a U.S. Airways ticket, stuffed $59,000 in cash into a duffel bag, then
headed for Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport. That is where his
nightmare began.

U.S. Customs agents searched his bag and found the money. Air travelers are
obliged to declare sums of cash greater than $10,000, and Mr. Zapeta didn't do
it. "If I had known," he says, "of course I would have told them about the
money."

The government accused Mr. Zapeta of smuggling drug money, confiscated it and
turned him over to immigration officials for deportation proceedings -- a
paradox, in that he was deporting himself at his own expense.

Mr. Zapeta, 38, still wants to go home. The issue now is his money. The
government wants to keep it. All of it.

For more than a year, West Palm Beach attorney Robert Gershman has tried to
negotiate a deal with the U.S. attorney's office in Fort Lauderdale. Mr.
Gershman acknowledges that his client was wrong to not declare the money and
says the government has the right to punish him with a reasonable fine -- but
not to take the whole $59,000.

"Mr. Zapeta has no criminal record -- nothing -- and the government has no
evidence this is drug money," Mr. Gershman says. "It's cruel and unusual
punishment for the government to take it all."

Mr. Zapeta's employers submitted affidavits that he worked for them. But they
are reluctant to testify for him because of problems that might arise from
hiring an illegal immigrant. After all, what's one Guatemalan dishwasher against
the United States of America? It's safer to stay out of the way.

Assistant U.S. Attorney William Beckerleg did not return phone calls for
comment. Mr. Gershman went before a federal mediator recently, and the
government offered to settle: Mr. Zapeta could keep 25 to 30 percent, maybe
$12,000 after legal fees. He said no.

"It's my money. I worked for it."

Mr. Zapeta is back in Stuart washing more dishes, but not for long. His
immigration attorney, Marisol Zequeira Burke, says the government is moving to
deport him soon. If that happens, all his money will be lost forever.

Unwittingly, Pedro Zapeta provided the prototype for the guest-worker program
President Bush wants to create: Mr. Zapeta filled jobs Americans didn't want,
worked hard, stayed out of trouble, then tried to return home. For 10 years, he
provided an essential service to Stuart restaurants. And the U.S. attorney's
office has provided the prototype for the sort of prosecution U.S. taxpayers
don't want. How about going after some real criminals?

Mr. Zapeta's first language is Quiche, an indigenous Mayan dialect, but his
Spanish is good enough to answer a simple question from a federal mediator: What
will you do if the government takes your money?

"Me voy a matar," he said, tearfully.

"I will kill myself."

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GO BEYOND THE BORDER ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 521 words


Guest-worker programs often have failed because they didn't provide enough
incentives for immigrants to participate. Why would a farmworker or construction
laborer who could expect to earn minimum wage and get no benefits bother dealing
with government red tape, fees and scrutiny without the promise of an attainable
payoff for compliance with the system? If there's no payoff, there's no
participation.

Yet two senior Bush administration officials are trying to sell Congress on
another guest-worker program that doesn't offer enough incentive to join.
Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff told the Senate Judiciary Committee last week that a path to legal
status isn't necessary to make workers participate. "I'm not sure everyone wants
to be a U.S. citizen," Mr. Gutierrez said. "Many just want to be able to work,
and if they can work legally, one day they would like to go back home."

Certainly, many immigrants want only the opportunity to work temporarily and
then return to their native countries. But it's doubtful that most of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already living in the United States --
some of them for many years -- would join a program that ultimately would send
them home. Without a payoff in citizenship or permanent residency, attempts at
reform will succeed only in creating a permanent underclass of people who live
here, and thus have no stake here, or reason to embrace the country.

Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John McCain, R-Ariz., addressed that problem
last year when they proposed a reform bill that called for a six-year path to
permanent residency, with the possibility of citizenship later. The government
would require immigrants to undergo background checks, learn English and pay
fines and back taxes. The bill passed the Senate but died an acrimonious death
in the House because of fierce opposition from the election-minded,
anti-reform-minded Republican majority. Sens. Kennedy and McCain are writing
another version of the bill that they will bring forward soon, and both believe
that the chances of passing legislation are better this year.

Besides having a Democratic majority in Congress that supports comprehensive
reform, efforts to secure the U.S. Mexico border have shown signs of working.
According to news reports, Border Patrol officials have found that they can
reduce illegal crossing not only with fences and motion sensors but also with
jail cells. Instead of capturing, then immediately releasing illegal immigrants
in Mexico, the government is incarcerating them for weeks or as long as six
months. At this point, the threat of jail time appears to be a deterrent.

The economic forces that drive illegal immigration, however, won't change. Last
week, The Miami Herald reported that some hotels in Miami-Dade County are
seeking maids from as far away as Korea. Immigration reform has two essential
parts: controlling the border and opening a way to permanent legal status.
President Bush has said that he agrees. One hopes that Mr. Chertoff's comments
don't represent a change in the president's thinking.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

DIVERSE GROUP OF ADVOCATES SHAPES NATIONAL REFORM

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1938 words

DATELINE: MAITLAND


The mammoth immigration reform bill currently before Congress provokes daily
public posturing by politicians in Washington.

But it is behind the scenes in the congressional offices and back halls of the
Capitol that the bill has been hammered out, amended and tailored like an
expensive suit in an attempt to attract the necessary votes.

Among the most active players, and tailors, in that lobbying campaign has been a
contingent from Florida.

Representatives of Florida's agricultural growers, an attorney for the state's
farm laborers, a Catholic bishop and state government officials have worked the
halls of Congress.

They are lobbying for legislation that will make available to the state a
lasting supply of labor, in part by granting legal status for those workers who
are undocumented.

The controversial bill is the most important piece of national immigration
legislation in two decades and could eventually legalize some 12 million people.
The Senate is expected to vote on the measure before the July 4 recess, and the
House may do so sometime this summer.

Given that Florida's two largest industries -- agriculture and tourism -- both
employ many undocumented workers and that the state's construction boom is
manned by those laborers, Florida has more interests balanced on the immigration
bill than almost any other state.

It is estimated that 100,000 to 120,000 undocumented laborers work in Florida
agricultural fields each year, and as many as three times that number are
employed in other state industries.

"After 9/11, it became even more important than before to have a stable and
legal workforce," says Mike Carlton, executive director for the Florida Fruit
and Vegetable Association, who has been working on immigration reform in
agriculture for at least 10 years. "This (bill) is a win for everybody -- for
employers, workers and the U.S. people."

Vocal opponents shape debate

Carlton, who for many years represented Florida Citrus Mutual, the state's
largest citrus growers group, is now based in Maitland for the Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Association. He says he has made 18 to 20 visits to Washington in
recent years to lobby Congress for immigration reform.

He also discussed that need with President Bush in an orange grove in Lake Wales
after the 2004 hurricanes and met with an aide to presidential adviser Karl Rove
for the same reason.

While the White House has been won over and the president is pushing the bill,
Carlton has been unable to convince some members of Florida's congressional
delegation, especially conservative Republicans. He admits to using private
meetings with hardliners to play some hardball of his own.

"There are some congressional people who have simply refused to have any
connection to the reality of the situation," Carlton says. "There are some who
have made it their mantra to oppose immigration reform. They are more interested
in making political points."

Carlton says those members of Congress have refused to back the bill largely
because they are appeasing a small but very vocal anti-immigrant minority in
their constituencies.

He said some of those members told him they agreed with his position but
couldn't risk the wrath of the far right.

"One of them, in a 20-minute conversation, brought it up four times," Carlton
says. "Very disappointing."

But Carlton says he told those politicians that they would no longer be able to
count on political donations from growers. Given that most growers are
conservatives and vote Republican, that wasn't welcome news.

How did he break it to them?

"Point blank," Carlton says. "They have lost contributions, and they are going
to lose even more if they continue to try to put us out of business."

Carlton won't name names, but a number of Congressional members from Florida
belong to the conservative House Immigration Reform Caucus, founded by Rep. Tom
Tancredo, R-Colo. They are considered unlikely to back the immigration reform
bill if it includes legal status in the United States for currently undocumented
workers. They call it "amnesty," which has become a dirty word in some
conservative circles.

Those GOP members include: Dave Weldon, Melbourne; Cliff Stearns, Ocala; Jeff
Miller, Pensacola; Ric Keller, Orlando; Tom Feeney, Oviedo; Ginny Brown-Waite,
Booksville; Vern Buchanan, Sarasota; and Gus M. Bilirakis, Palm Harbor.

But it isn't only Republicans who have given Carlton trouble along the way. In
the beginning, some Democrats, especially liberals, were extremely leery of the
lobbyist.

"There were significant players on the left of the aisle in both the House and
Senate who were wary of a group representing agricultural employers," Carlton
says.

That was because the growers were not only overwhelmingly Republican but had for
years been at odds with farmworker representatives on the kind of immigration
reform needed.

Great distrust existed between the grower groups and worker organizations, and
liberal congressmen were afraid of antagonizing their mostly Democratic Hispanic
supporters.

Joint effort brings progress

But Carlton says those liberals started listening to him.

"It eventually became clear (to them) that it wasn't a bad thing we were trying
to do, but a good thing," Carlton says.

In fact, Carlton became cozy enough with some Democrats that one of them gave
him some friendly, but pointed, political advice. Carlton says the Democrat
wagged a finger in his face in the back halls of Congress.

"He said, 'You help put the Democrats in power, and we'll pass that bill for
you,'" Carlton recalls.

Carlton won't reveal whether he or any of his grower acquaintances switched
parties in 2006, "but the Democrats are now in power, aren't they?" he says with
a mischievous glint.

By that time, Carlton had important help in convincing the Democrats. Several
years back, he and the growers he represented had formed a highly unlikely and
crucial alliance with farmworker associations.

After decades of bitter opposition to each other, the two sides negotiated for
hundreds of hours and finally cobbled together a compromise that they felt would
save U.S. agriculture and bring undocumented farmworkers out of the shadows.

The farmworker advocates agreed to support an expansion of a guest worker
program the growers had long wanted, which allows foreign labor into the country
for specific jobs and for a specific amount of time.

In exchange, the growers agreed to back legal status for undocumented workers
already here.

Both provisions would supply legal workers for agriculture.

"The real progress came when it became a joint effort," Carlton says. "Both
groups realized they couldn't get what they wanted alone."

While Carlton has represented the interests of growers, attorney Rob Williams of
Tallahassee has for years been at the negotiating table and in congressional
offices pressing the interests of the state's and nation's farmworkers.

Williams, of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project, received a phone call from
the United Farm Workers head office in California in early 2000 and was asked to
help negotiate needed immigration reform in agriculture. Williams has been an
inside player in national immigration reform ever since.

He is one of the authors of the "Ag Jobs" bill, which would legalize some
900,000 to 1.2 million undocumented agricultural workers in the U.S., and which
is seen as a main cog of the larger comprehensive immigration reform bill.

Williams recalls crucial moments in gaining the support of Democrats for Ag
Jobs. For example:

Senators Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., both have
large dairy farms in their states. Williams said that both the senators were
willing to support the bill originally but became much more avid backers once
dairy workers were included in Ag Jobs.

"Intensity of support is important in the Congress," Williams says. "Mrs.
Clinton, in particular, was looking for something to appeal to voters in upstate
New York."

And then there was Sen. Diane Feinstein, D-Calif.

"She wasn't with us at all in the beginning," Williams recalls.

But crime is a major issue for Feinstein, so the authors of the bill, Williams
included, allowed Feinstein to write a section of the bill excluding foreign
workers convicted of certain crimes from legal status in the U.S. Eventually,
Feinstein not only supported the bill, but also became a major sponsor.

As they work the halls of Congress, Williams and Carlton occasionally run into a
fellow Floridian in a clerical collar.

Bill not perfect, bishop says

Bishop Thomas Wenski of Orlando has been to Capitol Hill enough times that it
might qualify as an outlying part of his diocese.

Until last year, Wenski was chairman of the National Catholic Bishops Conference
committee on migration; he is still a member of that committee. He has testified
before both the Senate and House judiciary committees on immigration reform and
has also worked the congressional offices.

In March, he met with two top Republicans: Rep. John Boehner, R-Ohio, GOP leader
in the House, and Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., Senate minority leader.

He also corralled U.S. Rep Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., a member of the Congressional
Black Caucus. Some black lawmakers have raised doubts about allowing
undocumented workers to become legal residents because they might take jobs from
blacks.

"We've been trying to talk to everybody," Wenski says.

He always presses members of Congress with the church's major issues: legal
status for undocumented workers; equal labor rights and other protections for
guest workers, and an immigration policy that favors the unification of families
-- by allowing immediate family members of undocumented workers already in the
country to enter as well.

That last point has proven to be a disappointment for Wenski.

The current version of the immigration reform bill provides a preference for
workers with certain prized skills and less emphasis on family unification.

"We don't like some aspects of the current bill," Wenski says.

But he also says that the bill is better than the current situation that has
caused undocumented workers to fear U.S. authorities, allowing them to be
exploited by unscrupulous employers and victimized by criminals.

"The White House wants what we are proposing," Wenski says. "The problem is with
the recalcitrant part of the (president's) party."

Talk show hosts' role cited

Charles Bronson, commissioner of the Florida Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services and a Republican, has gotten a taste of that recalcitrance as
well.

"We've made contact with all of them," he says of the 27 members of Florida's
congressional delegation. "We've placed calls, sent letters to let them know our
position."

Bronson confirms he has also had his problems with his fellow Republicans in
Washington. His aide, Leslie Palmer, regularly works the Florida delegation.

"She has indicated to me that some of them have constituents dead set against
it, and they aren't going to move," Bronson says.

He believes those anti-immigration attitudes in Florida are being inflamed by
conservative talk-show hosts.

"As long as you have people like Lou Dobbs screaming about this, it's going to
be a difficult issue," he says of the television commentator. "The people
against something are always louder than the people for something."

Bronson and the other three proponents of the bill all feel it is the best move
for the country at the moment and has the support of most Americans and that the
politicians holding up its passage are bending to the will of a strident
minority.

As Williams puts it:

"Let's just say that, on this issue, some of our politicians have not been
Profiles in Courage."

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of a reporting error, The Palm Beach Post on Monday
misstated the position held by Mike Carlton. Carlton is the director of the
Education and Research Division of the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association,
not executive director of the association. The error appeared in a story about
the immigration reform bill on the front page.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4 B&W)
 1. 2003 staff file photo by GARY CORONADO Florida's two largest industries -
agriculture and tourism - employ many undocumented workers, underscoring the
state's interest in immigration reform. State advocates in part want legal
status for workers who are undocumented. 2. Mike Carlton (mug) 3. Thomas Wenski
(mug) 4. Charles Bronson (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW DAY LABOR DEBATE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 428 words


This Labor Day, the American workforce is as non-American as ever. Immigrants
make up about 15 percent of the nation's 153 million workers. Roughly half of
this foreign labor pool includes migrants and day laborers, most of them in the
country illegally. The federal government's failure to control borders and
reform immigration policy has forced state and local governments to deal with
problems that Washington was supposed to solve.

Across the country, dozens of communities have started day labor centers that
get immigrant workers off street corners and give them a place to connect with
employers who want their work. The centers deal pragmatically with local
realities: The laborers are here, they are needed, and help isn't coming from
Washington. Congress couldn't pass an immigration reform bill, and probably
won't come close again until after next year's election.

Last year, Jupiter created a South Florida prototype for labor centers when it
opened the El Sol Resource Center. But it is a prototype that is difficult to
replicate. To make El Sol happen, Jupiter needed courage from its mayor and town
council, open minds from its residents and committed cooperation from Catholic
Charities and the Guatemalan advocacy group Corn Maya. Besides finding dozens of
immigrants work each day, the center also teaches them English and gives them a
stake in the town's future. The communication between cultures benefits
everyone.

Other communities that have tried to follow the Jupiter model understand how
difficult that is. Efforts in West Palm Beach's Northwood neighborhoods and Lake
Worth's downtown have stalled over suitable sites and preoccupation with other
issues, budget cuts in particular. In Martin County, immigrant advocates and
government leaders have only begun discussing how to get workers off the streets
in Stuart and Indiantown.

The new, rural town of Loxahatchee Groves west of Royal Palm Beach draws many
migrants and day laborers because of its farms and nurseries. Each morning, men
walk or ride bicycles to the intersections along Okeechobee Boulevard to look
for employers. Last week, the town council held a workshop to discuss opening a
center.

"It might be possible to find a site on private property," Vice Mayor Marge
Herzog said. "Everything we've seen about the Jupiter center is positive. But
we'll need help." Ms. Herzog hopes to find grants to supplement the limited
resources of a town of 3,500. Labor Day has become an extension of the
immigration debate for thousands of communities that have to think federally and
act locally.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHERTOFF DEFENDS TREATMENT OF IMMIGRANTS IN DETENTION

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on Wednesday defended the
administration's treatment of legal and illegal immigrants during workplace
raids and at detention facilities.

At a sometimes-contentious House hearing, Chertoff also said that the initial
stage of a "virtual fence" along the Southern border is working, despite
technical problems and other glitches that have delayed the effort.

"We have a system that is operational and has already assisted in identifying
and apprehending more than 2,000 illegal aliens trying to cross the border since
December," he told the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees,
Border Security, and International Law.

The Government Accountability Office said in a recent report that the 28-mile
project is "not an optimal system" and would need a redesign before expansion.
That would delay the first phase of the broader technological fence by three
years to 2011, the GAO report said.

Chertoff faced pointed questions from Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas, and
Linda Sanchez, D-Calif., about the treatment of children at immigrant detention
facilities at the T. Don Hutto residential facility in Taylor, Texas, and a
smaller facility in Pennsylvania.

Children at the facilities had been put in cells alone for hours, awakened in
the middle of the night with flashlights in their faces and threatened with
being permanently separated from their parents, Sanchez said.

Attorneys for several children confined at Hutto contended in lawsuits that
inhumane conditions violated minimum standards for minors in custody. The case
ended in a settlement that included new standards.

Chertoff said he couldn't judge the conditions because he "wasn't there," but
that "eventually, this was resolved to the satisfaction of the plaintiffs."

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Michael Chertoff (mug) Homeland secretary says virtual fence at border works.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FACE BROAD CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration on Friday announced a broad crackdown on illegal
immigration, including increased fines or criminal prosecution for companies
that hire illegal workers.

The rules drew heavy criticism from immigrant advocates, labor unions and
business groups. But they were praised, albeit cautiously, by conservatives who
have long advocated using existing laws to crack down on unlawful immigrants.

Under the new rules, a company that ignores warning letters about employees with
potentially fake Social Security numbers could be fined up to $10,000 per
employee or face criminal prosecution.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said that the fines would increase
by about another 25 percent and that the number of investigators would also go
up.

"The magnet that brings most economic migrants into this country is work. And if
we have work-site enforcement directed at illegal employment, we strike at that
magnet," he said at a news conference.

President Bush said in a statement that the administration was acting after
Congress' failed this year to pass a White-House-backed measure that would have
given illegal immigrants a path to citizenship and created a guest worker
program.

"Although the Congress has not addressed our broken immigration system by
passing comprehensive reform legislation, my administration will continue to
take every possible step to build upon the progress already made," he said.

Businesses, faced with having to fire thousands of workers under the new rules,
are now likely to put more pressure on Congress to pass such reforms.

In a session with Spanish-speaking reporters after the news conference, Commerce
Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said he hoped the enforcement measures would convince
people that broader immigration reform is necessary.

"There is no doubt that there are people suffering only because they want to
work," Gutierrez said in a somber tone. "The only solution is to reform the
law."

Gutierrez also said that in an effort to lesson the impact on businesses, the
administration would streamline and improve temporary visa programs that allow
foreign workers to come to the United States to work in agriculture and other
seasonal jobs.

The new employer regulations - which go into effect in one month - allow a
business 90 days to figure out why an employee's Social Security number does not
match the government database. The reason could be a clerical error or a name
change because of marriage. But if legal status can't be confirmed, the employee
must be fired.

"These guidelines will make it more difficult for illegal aliens to use a
fraudulent Social Security number to get a job and will help employers take
appropriate action to protect themselves," Chertoff said.

Chertoff also announced that the Bush administration would eventually require
government contractors to use an employment system that helps them verify
whether an applicant or employee is in the U.S. legally. He said it soon will
include a feature to let an employer check photos on an employee's documents
against 14 million images in Department of Homeland Security databases.

The system - previously known as Basic Pilot and now renamed "E-Verify" - is now
voluntary. Requiring contractors to use it involves changing federal rules on
contracting, which could take months, Chertoff said.

The administration also announced several border enforcement measures, including
some that have been previously announced, such as a voluntary program to train
hundreds of state and local police officers to enforce immigration law.

By the end of 2008, the administration said it would have 370 miles of fencing
along the southern border, 300 miles of vehicle barriers, 105 camera and radar
towers and 18,300 Border Patrol agents.

The Department of Homeland Security also announced plans to reduce the number of
documents acceptable for employees to confirm a worker's identity and to expand
the list of organized gangs from foreign countries to ensure their members are
not allowed in the U.S.

The Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform, which includes 300 agriculture
business groups from around the country, said the department is offering
"Band-Aid" solutions that will not fix the problem.

"Agricultural employers are desperate for a legal workforce for the current
harvest season. Farmworkers cannot suffer another year living in the shadows of
our society," the group said in a statement.

Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., who chairs the House Immigration Reform Caucus,
said he is cautiously optimistic about the new efforts. "Ultimately, the devil
is in the details, but if the administration follows through with the promises
they are making today, we can demonstrate to the American people that we are
finally getting serious about addressing illegal immigration," he said.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 RICK McKAY/Cox News Service Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff (left)
and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez discuss the rules Friday in Washington.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ILLEGAL WORKERS ALLEGEDLY HEADED TO AREA FIRMS

BYLINE: By ALLYSON BIRD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE


As part of an ongoing investigation involving local businesses, federal agents
allegedly stopped a van filled with illegal immigrants on their way to work at
Club Med Sandpiper.

A criminal complaint released Monday names a Polish woman, Magdalena
Grabowiecka, as their driver. Grabowiecka was working for a man whose consulting
firm hired illegal immigrants as workers at Club Med and Dunkin' Donuts,
according to the complaint.

Grabowiecka came to the United States from Poland in April 2005 on a pleasure
trip and was granted an extension. The government denied her a second extension
in June.

But JAD Consulting Inc. paid her as recently as September, the complaint says,
even though vacationing visitors cannot hold jobs. The complaint states,
"Investigation indicates JAD Consulting Inc. to be a provider of unauthorized
alien labor in the local area."

From there, the details remain unclear.

The complaint says one informant, a Polish citizen, came to this country in May
2005 after seeing an advertisement to work in the United States. During her job
interview, recruiters told the woman to tell U.S. immigration officials that she
was here on vacation. They told her a man named Jan Dziarski would give her a
job, housing and transportation, the complaint states.

The complaint says Grabowiecka helped Dziarski by driving his vans to take
employees to job sites. Immigration agents stopped her Friday as she drove 15
illegal workers to Club Med Sandpiper, the complaint states. All workers were
taken to the Riviera Beach Border Patrol station for processing.

Notes in Grabowiecka's day planner reveal a romantic connection with Dziarski.

Agents searched his house, the complaint says. Officials declined to say whether
he was arrested.

Club Med officials declined to comment Monday.

Dunkin' Donuts released a statement saying: "The employees were recruited
through a third-party employment agency, and we are looking into the situation
to determine the best course of action."

The statement did not say how many of its stores in South Florida hired workers
through the consulting firm.

An Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman said the agency's
investigation is continuing.

~ allyson_bird@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Magdalena Grabowiecka (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLE, EX-GIRLFRIEND GET PRISON IN ILLEGAL WORKERS OPERATION

BYLINE: By SARAH PROHASKA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A Polish native who federal prosecutors say ran a Treasure Coast franchise of a
larger statewide operation that helped illegal immigrants work and live in the
United States was sentenced Monday to three years in prison.

Jan Dziarski, 52, pleaded guilty in January to helping illegal immigrants find
jobs and providing them with housing and transportation. In exchange,
prosecutors said, he took part of their paychecks. His former girlfriend,
Magdalena Grabowiecka, 32, also a native of Poland, was sentenced Monday to one
year and one day in prison for providing the workers with transportation.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Diana Acosta told U.S. District Judge Jose Martinez that
Dziarski "ran the Stuart-Treasure Coast franchise for a much larger company
based in Orlando." Six people were indicted in Orlando in December on federal
immigration and money-laundering charges in connection with allegations that
they recruited illegal immigrants to Florida and put them to work in service
jobs, usually at hotels.

Dziarski's attorney, Robin Rosen-Evans, argued that her client, who also is a
Canadian citizen, has a master's degree in engineering and has never before been
in trouble with the law. She said he never recruited any workers from other
countries, and he never picked out jobs or determined how much they were paid.

"He played a small part in the overall operation," Rosen-Evans said. "Mr.
Dziarski had no decision-making authority in the operation."

If Dziarski helps the prosecution's cases against the Orlando defendants,
officials said they could come back and ask a judge to reduce his sentence.

"I want to apologize to the court of the United States," Dziarski said in a
thick accent. "I am not going to do that again."

Both Dziarski and Grabowiecka also face deportation proceedings. Martinez also
ordered Dziarski to pay a $15,000 fine and serve three years of supervised
release. Grabowiecka was ordered to serve two years of supervised release.

Grabowiecka's attorney said his client became involved because she was recruited
just like the other employees, then at the most, she provided the workers rides
to and from work because of her personal relationship with Dziarski.

"Her task was to drive. That's what she did," attorney Peter Patanzo said.
"She's expressed extreme remorse."

~ sarah_prohaska@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Jan Dziarski (mug) 2. (B&W) Magdalena Grabowiecka (mug) At the most, she
provided the workers with transportation, her attorney says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WOMAN DIES AFTER BUS TOTING MIGRANTS HITS HER

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LaFORGIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


A 94-year-old woman was killed after she drove her car into the path of a bus
loaded with undocumented workers returning from a farm, police said.

Julia Ernst, who had a clean driving record in Florida, was heading west on West
Boynton Beach Boulevard Tuesday evening when she turned left onto Southwest
Eighth Street and was struck by the oncoming bus.

Her car was crushed, and she died at the scene.

The driver of the bus, 27-year-old Olvin Luque, was arrested after the crash on
a charge of driving without a license plate. He was released Wednesday on his
own recognizance.

After realizing the passengers were undocumented laborers Tuesday night, police
called U.S. Border Patrol agents, bused the workers from the scene and detained
them.

Thirty-nine workers -- 16 Mexicans, 22 Guatemalans and one Salvadoran -- were
heading home to the Boynton Beach area from R&A Farms in suburban Boynton Beach
when the wreck happened, said Robert Swathwood, agent-in-charge at the West Palm
Beach Border Patrol Station.

The workers were driven to the Border Patrol Station in Pembroke Pines, where
they'll be processed, Swathwood said.

Eventually, they'll face immigration hearings.

Representatives of the Migrant Farm Worker Justice Project, a nonprofit law firm
based in Lake Worth, were attempting to contact the immigrants Wednesday night.

Greg Schell, managing attorney of the justice project, said he wants to ensure
the workers are paid by R & A Farms before they are deported.

He also questioned the decision to report the workers to immigration
authorities.

"The local police had no reason to hold them. They weren't accused of committing
any crime," Schell said, adding: "It certainly doesn't encourage cooperation
with the police."

If local authorities enforce immigration law, it discourages undocumented
immigrants from going to the police when they're victimized or when they witness
crimes, Schell said.

"We want to encourage cooperation between undocumented immigrants and the police
department. We don't want them to be fearful of the police," said Sgt. Suzanne
Gitto, police spokeswoman. "But there are some incidents like this one when
we're faced with a tough decision and we have to call another agency to assist
our investigation. And this time it just happened to be the Border Patrol."

~ michael_laforgia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer Julia Ernst, 94, turned left onto Southwest
Eighth Street from West Boynton Beach Boulevard into the path of a bus carrying
39 undocumented workers, authorities said. Ernst died at the scene. 2. Julia
Ernst (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ON IMMIGRATION, BUSINESS LIKES SHADOWS

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 645 words


During the fractious, months-long immigration debate, Big Business hid in the
corridors of Congress or ducked behind closed doors, afraid to say publicly what
it whispered in private: We need illegal workers. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and its allies didn't want to be blasted by conservatives seeking harsh measures
against undocumented immigrants.

The dirty little secret is this: Several important sectors of the economy depend
heavily on low-wage workers, many of whom are here illegally. And employers in
those sectors, which include agriculture, hospitality and construction, don't
check carefully to learn whether their workers have proper documents. They know
that if they insist on hiring only legal workers, they won't be able to get
crops harvested or houses built or motel rooms cleaned.

Now, a White House crackdown on illegal immigrants has forced Big Business out
into the open. Joined by the AFL-CIO and the American Civil Liberties Union, a
coalition of business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
small-business associations, went to court to stop the Bush administration from
ferreting out undocumented laborers and punishing employers who use them. Last
week, a federal judge issued an injunction against the crackdown, warning that
it also could harm law-abiding workers and employers.

So we're right back where we started: Employers can continue to hire and exploit
illegal workers. And those workers still have little hope of becoming citizens.

Earlier this year, a congressional compromise on illegal immigration dissolved.
A bipartisan group of senators worked for months on a plan that would increase
spending on border protection, penalize employers who hire illegally and provide
a route to citizenship for illegal immigrants. But after a backlash from the
right-wing fringe, some of those same senators backed away from the deal.

Perhaps the compromise legislation could have been salvaged if Big Business had
been willing to lobby for it. If titans of agriculture had appeared in TV ads
supporting immigration and gone on talk shows to confront the likes of Lou Dobbs
-- who has made a new career of xenophobia -- the bill might have passed. It was
in their interests to do so, since it would have allowed many undocumented
laborers to keep their jobs.

But Big Business, playing the percentages, declined to step up. When you're
making billions off of illegal immigration, what's to reform?

After the immigration bill failed, President Bush promised stronger measures to
patrol the borders and punish employers who hire illegally. In August, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced a new initiative to send letters
warning employers about any worker whose Social Security number didn't match the
agency's records. The employer would have 90 days either to verify the worker's
Social Security number or fire him. Employers flouting the law could face stiff
fines.

But U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer of San Francisco noted that Social
Security's records are full of errors and could unfairly target legal workers.
If the records of the Social Security Administration are that flawed, they need
to be fixed -- in a hurry. Not only has poor record-keeping hampered efforts to
curb illegal workers, but it also will lead, inevitably, to false accounting.
Those records remain the best way to spot undocumented laborers.

And penalizing illegal employers remains the best way to curb illegal
immigration. Mexicans, Guatemalans and Koreans come to this country for jobs. If
they learn that those jobs are no longer available, they'll stop coming.

The worst thing to do is retain the status quo: exploiting illegal workers for
wretched pay while refusing to give them a path to citizenship. That's
un-American.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Her
e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EMPLOYERS WEAK LINK IN IMMIGRATION BATTLE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 388 words


The Bush administration made loud promises about cracking down on employers who
hire illegal immigrants, but new data suggest the promises were empty rhetoric.

Fewer than 100 company owners or supervisors were arrested in fiscal 2007,
according to a report in The Washington Post, and the Department of Homeland
Security continued to focus mainly on arresting illegal workers. As it has for
decades, the government targeted those at the bottom of the underground network
and arrested nearly 4,900 illegal immigrants. The administration defends itself
by saying total workplace arrests are up four-fold over two years ago. Yet just
2 percent of them resulted in charges against employers.

One of the few points of wide consensus in the immigration debate is that
enforcement of employers has to be part of the solution. There are an estimated
6 million companies that employ 7 million illegal workers, yet the government
got around to penalizing just 17 firms this year. While conservative Republican
lawmakers are obsessed with walling off the Mexico border, they neglect the
gaping holes within the U.S. business community.

The government still hasn't figured out how to begin dealing with Social
Security fraud in the workplace. In September, Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said he was tightening enforcement of "no match" letters the
government sends to businesses that have workers with questionable identities.
The letters tell employers that a worker's name doesn't match the Social
Security number. But a federal judge blocked the program because the government
couldn't guarantee records were accurate enough to protect legal workers from
being mistakenly punished.

Secretary Chertoff says he is trying to improve an Internet database that would
allow employers to verify employees' Social Security numbers. But the government
has been promising that for years. The Bush administration is left relying on
high-profile raids and showy news conferences to suggest an atmosphere of
change, rather than dealing with the hard fixes that true reform demands.

Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., a member of the Senate's homeland security
committee, has it right when she says the failure to prosecute employers for
illegal hires is like punishing the under-age drinker but ignoring the tavern
owner who rakes in all the profit.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE STATES TAKE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 693 words


Across the country, legislators, city council members, commissioners and
assorted elected pooh-bahs watched Congress do nothing about immigration last
year, then decided to take matters into their hands.

The result is hundreds of new state and local laws that attempt to take on
responsibilities that were supposed to belong to the federal government. Many of
those laws went into effect when the year began, some are just beginning to be
enforced and others are coming soon.

In Southampton, N.Y., landlords who rent to illegal immigrants now can face
fines of up to $15,000 and six months in jail. The city council in Georgetown,
Texas, is about to pass an ordinance that would require contractors who do work
for the city to prove that all of their employees are documented. In Beaufort
County, S.C., a new ordinance calls for random audits of businesses to make sure
that employers have copies of federal paperwork on file for their immigrant
workers. Last summer, council members in Green Bay, Wis., passed an ordinance
that would revoke the license of any business found to hire illegal immigrants.

The life expectancy of these laws is uncertain. Communities that have tried to
get into the immigrant enforcement game have gotten out of it quickly when
challenges in the courts became too costly. Hazelton, Pa., became the first town
to enact laws against illegal immigrant workers in 2006, but last year, a
federal judge struck them down. Riverside, N.J., passed illegal immigrant
penalties for landlords and employers but then rescinded the ordinances after
the attorneys' bills came in, small-business owners went bust and the tax base
collapsed.

It has become politically fashionable to make noise about casting out all those
terrible illegal immigrants who are destroying our American way of life. But
sometimes it can get real quiet after they're cast out.

The nation's two great laboratories of immigration lawmaking are Arizona and
Oklahoma, where landmark legislation took effect this month.

The Legal Arizona Workers Act inflicts severe sanctions on employers who
knowingly hire illegal workers. A first offense results in a 10-day suspension
of a company's license. After a second offense, the state can shut down the
business.

The Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act, known colloquially as "1804"
-- as in House Bill 1804 -- not only prohibits the hiring of illegal immigrants.
It imposes felony penalties for providing the immigrants transportation or
shelter. The law also prohibits illegals from obtaining driver licenses or
public benefits.

The immediate impact of the two laws was not surprising: Surrounding states --
in particular Nevada, Arkansas, Missouri and Texas -- reported the arrival of
large numbers of immigrants. Employers in Oklahoma and Arizona, meanwhile,
reported widespread labor shortages. Pickers didn't show up for the lettuce
harvest in Yuma, hotel rooms weren't cleaned in Tulsa and construction sites
grew quiet in Phoenix.

The secondary impact of the two laws is uncertain. Some economists predict
devastation. Small businesses will close because their customers have moved, and
the damage will ripple up to big businesses. Labor shortages mean that employers
will have to pay more to hire workers, which means that prices will rise for
goods and services. Inflation hasn't been an issue in Oklahoma and Arizona but
may be soon. New federal numbers show that U.S. consumer prices just took their
largest leap in 17 years.

Proponents of 1804 and the Legal Arizona Workers Act say that inflation pressure
will be offset by tax savings. Governments are supposed to spend less money on
schools and social services because the immigrants have disappeared.

This is the experiment that will be played out in Arizona and Oklahoma. Will the
states' economies prosper without illegal immigrants, or will their leaving
bring recession or inflation or both?

The question will have an answer before too long, and it will have a mighty
influence on the debate over what the nation should do about its most
confounding problem.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILLS TARGET UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL C. BENDER Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Calling illegal immigration a "major problem" in Florida, state Rep. Gayle
Harrell on Tuesday celebrated a series of bills that she and others said would
make it tougher for employers to hire undocumented workers and would push local
law enforcement to help identify illegal immigration.

"We need to deal with the problem we are having in our community with illegals,"
said Harrell, a Stuart Republican running for Congress this year.

"We're now having a significant problem with our budget and we're having to cut
services to legal residents of the state," she said. "And when we're spending
$1.8 billion on services to illegals in the state, we need to really look at
what we can do to address the problem."

It wasn't immediately clear what Harrell used to determine the state's cost to
provide services to undocumented workers. Even Rep. Don Brown, one of the
state's most active lawmakers on immigration, acknowledged that such a figure
would be based on anecdotes and circumstantial evidence.

"The much larger issue involved here is the sovereignty of our nation and the
sovereignty of our state," said Brown, R-DeFuniak Springs. "We cannot lose sight
of the fact that if an army were to invade our borders, we would consider it a
declaration of war."

Harrell and Brown proposed two of the six bills that a group of lawmakers were
trumpeting Tuesday.

Harrell, who acknowledged an uphill battle for her bill in the legislature, said
it was the first illegal immigration bill she has introduced since she was
elected to the state House in 2000.

She did propose a controversial amendment last year that would have prevented
the state from paying for health care services for children of illegal
immigrants.

Her bill (HB 821), the Florida Safe Borders Act of 2008, would, among other
things, prohibit the state from supporting day labor centers, such as El Sol in
Jupiter, that could be helping illegal immigrants find work.

She was joined by several Palm Beach County residents, including Charlie
Elliott, 79, of Jupiter. Elliott said he has protested outside El Sol.

Carol Diane, 60, of Boca Raton also traveled to the Capitol on Tuesday to lobby
for immigration reform. She said it was the first political issue to inspire her
action.

"As a mother, it tugs at your heartstrings to see the plight of people from
around the world who want to come to America," Diane said. "But now our security
is at risk and we're being affected not just economically, but in terms of the
criminal element as well. It's a scary time."

Diane and Elliott said they were loosely associated with groups known as Border
Control Now and Floridians for Immigration Enforcement.

Brown's bill (HB 73) would prohibit cities from restricting any efforts to
enforce immigration laws, preempting municipalities from creating so-called
"sanctuary cities" for illegal immigrants.

The bill also requires Florida driver licenses to be issued only to U.S.
citizens or those with legal status in Florida.

Brown said the state doesn't know how much of its resources go to illegal
immigrants because nobody ever asks. The bill would provide this information, he
said.

The aspect of the bill that could have the greatest effect on Florida business
is a requirement for anyone contracting with the state to participate in the
federal government's volunteer worker verification program. Under the program,
employers run the names of prospective employees through Social Security and
Department of Homeland Security databases.

The program has been criticized by Congress' investigative arm for its high rate
of error, and Florida's largest construction association has opposed the
proposal.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ mike_bender@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GIVE LOCAL JOBS TO CITIZENS, NOT LAWBREAKING ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 204 words


The article headlined "Anti-immigrant protest targets day-labor site" is biased
toward the lawbreaking illegal aliens.

First of all, the vast majority of protesters, including myself, are not
anti-immigrant; we are anti-illegal immigrant. To us there is a vast difference
between legal and illegal immigration. Another example of your bias is the
phrase "undocumented workers." An undocumented worker could be a legal American
citizen working under the table. These illegal foreign nationals are
undocumented because they have violated U.S. law by entering the country and
continue to violate the law by working here. You conveniently seem to overlook
this. Not only is El Sol providing a meeting place for illegals and illegal
employers, it is providing computer classes and job training so that these
illegal immigrants can displace the local legal workforce. This is a travesty
and a clear violation of U.S. law.

Quite frankly, we don't want illegals learning English. We want them to return
to their home countries and continue speaking in their native tongues. As the
U.S. enters a recession, unemployment will increase. Available local jobs must
be provided to legal U.S. citizens, not illegal aliens.

MILTON SMITH

Lantana

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TWO CHARGED WITH MURDER IN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By KEVIN DEUTSCH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 259 words


Two men who made a fatal attempt at smuggling undocumented immigrants from The
Bahamas to Jupiter Island in December have been indicted on charges of murder,
alien smuggling and importing narcotics, according to the U.S. Attorney's
Office.

Boat captain Rickey Thompson and first mate Leon Brice Johnson had been arrested
in December and charged with the murder of Nigel Warren, 58, who was found near
the 35-foot Intrepid after it ran aground off Blowing Rocks Preserve Dec. 28.

According to the indictment, the men arranged to transport 11 undocumented
immigrants from Freeport, Bahamas, aboard Thompson's boat. On the boat was a
large black duffel bag that contained marijuana and cocaine, authorities said.

On Dec. 28, the indictment says, Thompson piloted the boat without lights to
avoid detection and stopped whenever he believed he saw or heard a U.S. Coast
Guard vessel.

When the boat was in deep, rough waters off Jupiter Island about 9 p.m.,
Thompson stopped and ordered the immigrants to jump.

Several did, but others, who could not swim, including Warren, a Jamaican
national, stayed on board. Thompson pulled out a gun and ordered the remaining
people off, authorities said.

All jumped over and swam to shore, except for Warren, who drowned.

Thompson and Johnson later broke into a Jupiter Island home, stole a kayak,
rowed up the Intracoastal Waterway and eventually hid in a wooded area while
eluding capture for more than a day, authorities said.

If convicted, they face a maximum statutory sentence of death or life in prison.

kevin_deutsch@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 11, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 FACE NEW CHARGES OF MURDER, SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By KEVIN DEUTSCH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 253 words


Two men charged with murder for carrying out a smuggling operation that left a
man dead off Jupiter Island in December are now facing additional murder,
illegal immigrant smuggling and drug charges for a similar operation that left
two people dead in August, prosecutors said.

The U.S. Attorney's Office on Tuesday said a superseding indictment has been
filed against boat captain Rickey Thompson and first mate Leon Brice Johnson in
connection with an August smuggling venture from the Bahamas to Jupiter Island.

According to the superseding indictment, the men arranged to transport six
undocumented immigrants from Freeport, Bahamas, to Jupiter Island, aboard
Thompson's 35-foot boat.

The immigrants paid Thompson fees ranging from $1,500 to $4,000 for the trip and
were assured he would drop them off on the beach or in water no higher than
their ankles, the indictment said.

On Aug. 16, Thompson stopped the boat in deep, rough waters and ordered the
undocumented immigrants to get off. Two Haitian nationals - Roselyne Lubin and
Alnert Charles - were killed and were found floating in the water near Jupiter
Island, prosecutors said.

Authorities responding to the area where the immigrants landed recovered several
duffle bags containing approximately 26 1/2 pounds of cocaine.

Thompson and Johnson were previously charged with murder, illegal immigrant
smuggling and narcotics trafficking in connection with the December 2006
incident. They face a maximum sentence of death or life imprisonment.

- kevin_deutsch@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

PROPOSED BILL TARGETS IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By RACHEL SIMMONSEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: JUPITER ISLAND


Local authorities would have the power to arrest suspected smugglers of
undocumented immigrants under a bill sponsored by state Rep. Bill Snyder,
R-Stuart.

On Wednesday, Snyder joined co-sponsors Reps. Gayle Harrell, R-Stuart, and Maria
Sachs, D-Delray Beach, at the Jupiter Island Club to talk about the proposed
legislation. Snyder said it would put an end to human smuggling cases that "fall
through the gap."

Because there's no state law banning human smuggling, only federal officials
have the authority to arrest people suspected of bringing undocumented
immigrants into the country.

Should local officials find a suspected smuggler, they can hold the person for
only a few hours, Martin County Sheriff Robert Crowder said. If federal
authorities take longer than that to arrive, local officials often have no
choice but to release the suspect.

Snyder likened his proposed legislation to the way state laws complement federal
laws on bank robbery. It's a crime that can be tried in either state or federal
courts.

Wednesday's news conference took place near where a 25-foot boat loaded with
more than a dozen undocumented immigrants stalled offshore Friday. Authorities,
who seized the boat and captured all people involved, said it was unusual to
catch the captain.

Too often, underhanded smugglers throw undocumented immigrants overboard rather
than bring the boat ashore and risk being caught, Snyder said. Many immigrants
have drowned.

Under Snyder's proposed measure, human smuggling would become a third-degree
felony in the state. If the smuggling resulted in bodily harm, the smuggler
would face a mandatory minimum of five years in prison. If an undocumented
immigrant died, the smuggler would face a mandatory minimum sentence of 10
years.

A smuggler would face a separate charge for each immigrant involved.

"If this bill saves one person's life or if it prevents one smuggler from
reoffending, I'll consider it a real success," Snyder said.

Sachs said she was proud to cross party lines to support the measure.

"This is not a political issue," Sachs said. "This is a Florida issue."

~rachel_simmonsen@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 MEGHAN McCARTHY/Staff Photographer State Reps. Gayle Harrell (in red), Bill
Snyder and Maria Sachs announce their bipartisan proposal to make immigrant
smuggling a state crime at the Jupiter Island Club on Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILL TARGETS SMUGGLING OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By RACHEL SIMMONSEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: JUPITER ISLAND


Local authorities would have the power to arrest suspected smugglers of
undocumented immigrants under a bill sponsored by state Rep. Bill Snyder,
R-Stuart.

On Wednesday, Snyder joined cosponsors Reps. Gayle Harrell, R-Stuart, and Maria
Sachs, D-Delray Beach, at the Jupiter Island Club to talk about the proposed
legislation. Snyder said it would put an end to human smuggling cases that "fall
through the gap."

Because there's no state law banning human smuggling, only federal officials
have the authority to arrest people suspected of bringing undocumented
immigrants into the country.

Should local officials find a suspected smuggler, they can hold the person for
only a few hours, Martin County Sheriff Robert Crowder said. If federal
authorities take longer than that to arrive, local officials often have to
release the suspect.

Snyder likened his proposed legislation to the way state laws complement federal
laws on bank robbery. It's a crime that can be tried in either state or federal
courts.

Wednesday's news conference took place near where a boat loaded with more than a
dozen undocumented immigrants stalled offshore Friday. Authorities, who seized
the boat and captured all people involved, said it was unusual to catch the
captain.

Too often, underhanded smugglers throw undocumented immigrants overboard rather
than bring the boat ashore and risk being caught, Snyder said. Many immigrants
have drowned.

Under Snyder's proposed measure, human smuggling would become a third-degree
felony in the state. If the smuggling resulted in bodily harm, the smuggler
would face a mandatory minimum of five years in prison. If an undocumented
immigrant died, the smuggler would face a mandatory minimum sentence of 10
years.

A smuggler would face a separate charge for each immigrant involved.

Sachs said she was proud to cross party lines to support the measure. "This is
not a political issue," Sachs said. "This is a Florida issue."

~ rachel_simmonsen@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MAN PLEADS GUILTY TO FEDERAL CHARGES IN SMUGGLING DEATHS

BYLINE: By CARA FITZPATRICK Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 300 words


A smuggler accused of causing the deaths of three illegal immigrants during two
incidents off Martin and Palm Beach counties in 2006 has pleaded guilty to
federal charges, officials announced Monday.

Leon Brice Johnson pleaded guilty in federal court Friday to one count of
conspiracy to smuggle immigrants, three counts of immigrant smuggling resulting
in death and two counts of conspiracy to import controlled substances for his
role in two smuggling operations from the Bahamas to Jupiter Island, according
to a statement.

The announcement was made by officials from the Department of Justice,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Drug Enforcement Administration.
Officials were not available for comment Monday.

Johnson faces a maximum of five life sentences on the charges.

One man, Nigel Warren, died Dec. 28, 2006, during one of the operations when he
tried to swim to shore from a 33-foot boat before it crashed off Blowing Rocks
Preserve.

The other passengers, all Jamaican men, were captured near the shore.

They told investigators that Johnson was co-captain of the boat along with
another man, Rickey Thompson. Both were arrested by Martin County deputies.

The immigrants said they paid between $1,500 and $4,000 each for passage to the
United States from the Bahamas, only to be forced off the boat at gunpoint more
than 100 yards off Jupiter Island, officials said.

Johnson and Thompson also were charged with a similar incident on Aug. 16,
during which prosecutors allege they forced people off a boat in rough waters
off Tequesta. Two Haitian nationals, Roselyne Lubin and Alnert Charles, were
found dead floating in the water off Jupiter Island.

The men also transported narcotics, including cocaine, heroin and marijuana
during the two trips, authorities said.

~cara_fitzpatrick@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAW NEEDS TO ADDRESS THE REAL PROBLEM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 87 words


The solution to the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants hiding in America is
relatively simple. The laws need to provide for a mandatory 12-month jail
sentence for any employer hiring an illegal alien regardless of whether the
employer was aware of this.

Within a month of this law being resolutely enforced, none of the illegals would
have a job, and in a short while, they all would leave voluntarily. This is a
simple cure of the real underlying cause of the problem and the only way to
solve it.

ROBERT FIRTH

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK: Immigration bill not well
thought out

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWERS TAP VISA PROGRAM;
CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGAL WORKERS STIRS FEAR OF LABOR SHORTAGE

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 775 words


Beginning Sept. 14, businesses that continue to employ workers whose Social
Security numbers don't match government records can expect to receive letters
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

If the discrepancies aren't cleared up within 90 days, employers must fire the
workers or face fines of up to $10,000 per offense, according to a rule the Bush
administration announced Aug. 11. The rule is aimed at exposing illegal
immigrants who are using fraudulent documents.

For Florida agriculture, the timing couldn't be much worse.

The vegetable planting season and the citrus harvest season begin in September.
Labor shortages are a possibility, some say, and not just for growers.

"This really exacerbates an already serious situation. This past season was not
as bad as it could have been because the construction industry slowed down,"
said Lisa Lochridge, a spokeswoman for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable
Association, based in Maitland.

"The consequences are going to be felt pretty seriously," she said Friday.
"Construction, hospitality and agriculture -- that is the three-legged stool of
our state economy, and all three depend on this workforce. It is going to be
very tough."

J. Luis Rodriguez, trade adviser for Florida Farmers Inc. in Lake Worth, agreed.

"We are in a hell of a bind with this workforce," Rodriguez said. "Unless they
have some foolproof ID, all we can do is look at the Social Security number."

With uncertainty about this season's labor supply, more growers are turning to
the federal H-2A visa program, which allows companies to bring in foreign
laborers as guest workers. Growers must provide furnished housing, meals or a
place to cook them and, in Florida, pay workers $8.56 an hour, said Roy Hefty,
operations manager at Memphis-based H2A USA, which has an office in Lakeland.

The company has handled guest workers for the construction industry for 20
years.

"Housing is the biggest issue we have," Hefty said. "If the crackdown occurs, it
is going to have huge repercussions for everybody, not just farmers."

Last year, H2A USA brought in nearly 300 H-2A workers for Florida's citrus
industry. This year, the company expects to bring in 600 to 1,000 workers from
Mexico to pick the state's citrus.

"I have had calls from 20 states," Hefty said. "People want something next week.
We tell them this is a four- to six-month project. You start six months before
you need workers."

Charles Lucas, president of Fort Myers-based Consolidated Citrus LP, the
nation's largest citrus grower, said the company relies on independent labor
contractors and selects those who are using the H-2A program.

This year, to better understand H-2A, the company plans to obtain a couple of
H-2A crews on its own.

"Labor is becoming a big concern. There's no question that there's a lot of
uncertainty," Lucas said. "As an industry, we don't know how many workers are
still available. It's not just Florida, it's the entire U.S."

The fruit and vegetable association supplied more than 3,000 H-2A workers for
Florida's fields during the 2006-07 season, said Walter Kates, the group's labor
division director.

He said H-2A "is not an easy program."

"My guess is there will probably be more H-2A workers this year," Kates said.
"It's too early to tell."

Greg Schell, attorney with the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth,
said many of the state's largest growers have indicated to him they plan to use
more H-2A workers this season.

With the availability of workers uncertain, companies such as Southern Gardens
Citrus outside Clewiston are evaluating their options and plan to harvest as
much fruit as possible with mechanical harvesters, spokeswoman Judy Sanchez
said.

"The only certainty you have is that you are going to have a citrus crop and you
have a finite amount of time to harvest that crop," Sanchez said. "You have to
have labor."

Lochridge said the tighter rules on Social Security numbers won't solve the
illegal immigration problem and will lead to "chaos and hardship."

"Good employers will be stuck between a rock and a hard place," she said. "If
they comply, they stand to lose a big chunk of their workforce. If they don't,
they face stiff fines."

~susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

The new rule

Effective Sept. 14:

* Employers whose workers' Social Security numbers don't match government
records have 90 days to clear up any discrepancies.

* If that doesn't happen, employers must fire the workers or face fines of up to
$10,000 for each offense.

* For a Q&A on what employers who receive a 'no-match letter' should do, visit
the Florida Farm Bureau's Website,http://www.floridafarmbureau.org
/uploads/mainsite/files/MismatchQ&A.pd f

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Associated Press file photo by LYNNE SLADKY Celestino Galindo Dominguez of
Mexico picks oranges at an Arcadia citrus farm owned by Sorrells Brothers Inc.
He has an H-2A agricultural work visa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COST, QUALITY OF LIFE NOT WORTH IT IN FLORIDA ANYMORE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 138 words


Insurance, taxes and quality of life are all going in the wrong direction.
Traffic and the complete disregard for traffic laws (Interstate 95 south,
especially), illegal aliens (you guys call them undocumented workers), uninsured
motorists, causing my premiums to skyrocket.

I have a four-bedroom, three-bath vacation home in Colorado on 5.5 acres that
costs less to keep (taxes, insurance and utilities) than it costs me to keep a
$25,000, 20-foot boat at a local marina storage facility.

It's not that we can't afford it; it's that we've reached a point that we don't
feel it's worth it.

We will be out of Florida in the next 18 months and return as part-time visitors
renting a condo that we won't have to worry about insuring, etc. If that doesn't
work out, we'll go somewhere else. Florida is not a paradise.

BILL HADLEY

Tequesta

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EL SOL HELD UP AS EXAMPLE

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


An author of a 2006 survey that found undocumented workers were the victims of
rampant rights abuses said one of the best remedies is day labor centers like El
Sol Neighborhood Resource Center here.

Speaking to day laborers Saturday at El Sol, Nik Theodore, director of the
Center for Urban Economic Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago,
previewed the findings of a new national study of day labor worker centers.

The study, based on interviews with executive directors and top staff of 60 day
labor centers in 15 states, showed that local governments and workers rights
advocates widely view the centers, which connect employers with undocumented
workers, as the quickest and most direct way to correct working conditions and
protect workers rights.

"Day labor is growing all over the country, and the reason it is growing is
because there are employers looking for day laborers," Theodore said. "Day
workers are a part of the community. They usually live in the community where
they're seeking work, and local decisions should not treat them like they're
from outside the community."

In the 2006 survey of 2,660 day laborers in 20 states, nearly half of the
workers reported experiencing being underpaid and not being paid at all by
employers within a two-month period.

The day labor centers, however, help provide a floor or a minimum wage rates for
workers, this year's study found. Plus, the majority of the labor centers assist
undocumented workers in making wage claims against employers.

Theodore also reported that 75percent of all day labor centers receive some form
of government support, unlike El Sol.

El Sol, however, has many of the characteristics of successful day labor
centers, such as its visibility and accessibility to major thoroughfares where
undocumented workers congregate seeking contracting or landscaping employment,
he said.

~ dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. BRUCE R. BENNETT/Staff Photographer A group at the El Sol Neighborhood
Resource Center in Jupiter listens Saturday to a review of 60 day labor centers
across the country. 2. Nik Theodore (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AD TARGETS MARTINEZ

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN and EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An immigrant advocacy coalition is targeting Sen. Mel Martinez with an ad that
challenges the Cuban-born Republican "to remember his roots -- support true
immigration reform."

The Coalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, which includes the SEIU
Florida Healthcare Union, said the ad is the first of many to target key
senators who it says have backed away from compromise legislation that passed
last year in the Senate.

Martinez, who has been attacked by the Republican far right for being willing to
allow illegal immigrants to obtain legal residency status, called the ad
"terribly unfair. But that's politics."

"I've spent hours on this subject," he said, "and to suggest that I'm not
someone who wants to see an immigration bill that is fair and just for the good
of our nation I think is just terribly unfair."

Martinez, who is not up for reelection until 2010, said the ad "doesn't hurt me
politically (but) it has caused tremendous distrust that maybe people are
looking at the political thing here rather than getting a bill done."

Noting that he has received criticism from advocates for and against a
comprehensive immigration bill, he said, "I must be doing something right about
where the sweet spot is in order to have both sides concerned."

The ad began running Tuesday in Florida newspapers and on radio.

It notes that Martinez, who arrived legally from Cuba when he was 15 years old,
was a leader last year of a bipartisan attempt to craft a comprehensive
immigration bill that included a path to citizenship for immigrants who entered
the United States illegally.

But it said anti-immigration forces "are pressuring (him) to back away from his
own legislation -- and deny today's hard-working immigrants the same rights and
opportunities he enjoyed as a young man."

Clarissa Martinez, campaign manager for the coalition and no relation to the
senator, said: "We were optimistic when Sen. Martinez was tapped by President
Bush to lead the Republican Party. ... But instead of backing a bipartisan
approach like last year, he's backing a White House proposal that would make
reform unworkable not only for immigrants, but for the nation."

Several Republican senators are working with Democrats and the White House on a
new bill, but an agreement has proved elusive.

The White House has been working with key GOP senators, including John Cornyn of
Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, on legislation that includes border security
measures, an employment verification system and the legalization provisions.

Last month, some basic principles leaked from the negotiations, including a plan
to grant work visas to illegal immigrants at the cost of $3,500 each. The
illegal immigrants could then apply for permanent residency but would first have
to return home and pay a $10,000 fine.

According to people familiar with the negotiations, the White House has come
down considerably on the fees. Martinez said there was always an understanding
that the fees would be adjusted.

Martinez said he was "absolutely committed to a bipartisan compromise." He
denied that he was acting as the "voice" of the Bush administration in the
immigration bill negotiations, but said "the White House has played a very
constructive role in all of this, and to suggest otherwise would be very
unfair."

~ larryl@coxnews.com

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mel Martinez (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE VOTE PARALYZES IMMIGRATION BILL FOR NOW

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A major effort to overhaul the nation's immigration laws received a potentially
fatal blow Thursday when senators voted against limiting debate on the measure.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., made good on his promise to pull the
bill from the floor after the 50-45 vote in which most Republicans voted no.
Sixty votes were needed to approve the procedural vote. Florida's Mel Martinez
and Bill Nelson both voted for passage.

Reid said he would still try to get the bill passed, but prospects were bleak.

"I hope that we can find a way to do it," he said, adding later, "I want to
finish this bill, but I can't do it alone."

The measure would have allowed millions of illegal immigrants to obtain legal
status and possibly citizenship after clearing several hurdles, including a
waiting period and fines.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Republicans wanted more time
to offer amendments and urged Reid to return to the issue sometime in the near
future.

"We are giving up on this bill too soon," he said. "We could have finished this
bill in a couple more days, in my judgment."

The vote came after Republicans and Democrats failed to come to an agreement on
how many and which amendments would be allowed on the floor.

Reid blamed Republicans for refusing to vote to limit debate on the bill after
two weeks of debate. The measure was backed by the White House, and President
Bush has been lobbying aggressively for its passage.

"This is the president's bill," Reid said. "Where is the president now helping
us with this vote?"

Earlier in the day, Reid's first attempt at a cloture vote to limit debate on
the bill also failed, by a 63-33 vote. After that vote, Reid and other
Democratic leaders called on Bush to pressure Republicans to get on board with
limiting debate on the bill and reaching a conclusion.

Reid said he had spoken to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, urging
him to get involved. Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez helped
negotiate the compromise bill, but the administration and Senate Republicans
were receiving a strong backlash from conservatives who said the legislation
amounts to an amnesty for lawbreakers.

Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said the White House needs to step up to move the
bill forward. "If (Bush) can't deliver a third of his caucus, this bill is going
to fail," Schumer said.

Reid also charged that Republicans wanted to vote on amendments designed to kill
the bill and that they were stalling because they did not want to move on to
other topics, including the war in Iraq, high gasoline prices and whether
embattled Attorney General Alberto Gonzales should remain in office.

At least one Republican admitted he was trying to thwart the overall bill.

"I've been trying to kill it since the beginning," said Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Ky.

But others said they were being denied the opportunity to offer amendments to
improve the legislation.

McConnell said that Democrats would not succeed by "trying to stuff the minority
and prevent the amendment process."

Sen. John Kyl, R-Ariz., one of the key Republicans who favor the bill, said, "It
doesn't matter whether it's another day or two. What matters is whether we can
resolve this vexing problem. And if it takes a little bit longer, then so be
it."

Earlier Thursday, senators voted 49 to 48 to approve an amendment by Sen. Byron
Dorgan, D-N.D., that was considered a potential deal breaker. The amendment
would sunset the temporary worker program in the bill after five years.

The overall legislation would have allowed illegal immigrants to register fairly
quickly for a "Z-visa" that would let them stay and work in the United States.
After at least eight years, the immigrants could apply for permanent legal
residency and eventual citizenship if they pay fines and meet other
requirements. The bill also would have created a temporary worker program for
200,000 foreign laborers a year.

The legalization and guest worker provisions would not have taken effect until
certain security measures were in place, including adding thousands of new
Border Patrol agents and creating an employee verification system so that
businesses can check if their workers are in the United States legally.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 14, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBAMA CALLS DEPORTING WRONG IMMIGRANT TACK

BYLINE: By BOB KEEFE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Barack Obama told a Latino group Sunday that he would make immigration reform a
top priority and create a way for 12 million illegal immigrants in America to
get "out of the shadows" and gain citizenship if he's elected president.

"Yes they broke the law, and we should not excuse that," Obama told more than
2,000 people at the annual meeting of the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's biggest Latino civil rights group. "We should require them to pay a
fine, learn English, and go to the back of the line for citizenship - behind
those who came here legally.

"But we cannot - and should not - deport 12 million people," he said. "That
would turn America into something we're not, something we don't want to be."

Obama also unveiled a plan that would give tax credits to small businesses that
provide health care for employees. And for people who can't get health care
through their work, he proposes a national health care system.

Obama's speech came as he and probable GOP nominee John McCain are stepping up
their courting of Latino voters. McCain is scheduled to speak to La Raza in San
Diego today.

Polls show that Latino voters so far greatly favor Obama over McCain.

According to a July 2 Gallup poll, Obama leads McCain 59 percent to 29 percent
among registered Hispanic voters.

"Make no mistake about it: The Latino community holds this election in (its)
hands," Obama said.

Obama pointed out that, four years ago, 40,000 registered Latinos in New Mexico
didn't vote. John Kerry lost that state by 6,000 votes.

"I know how powerful this community is, and by the way, so does Sen. McCain,"
Obama said.

Martin Castro of Montebello, Calif., said he backs Obama because he thinks
McCain flip-flopped in his support of broader rights for immigrants and because
Obama has a more positive message for the country.

Republicans "have depicted immigrants as people who want to move in and take
over the country, and of course that's not the case," said Castro, CEO of the
Mexican American Opportunity Foundation, a nonprofit group near Los Angeles.

"It's that hate type of dialogue," that persuaded him to support Obama, Castro
said.

Obama also took aim at McCain's stance on immigration, saying the Arizona
senator proposed immigration reform but then said he would vote against it when
he was trying to woo conservatives during the Republican primaries.

"Well, I don't know about you, but I think it's time for a president who won't
walk away from something as important as comprehensive reform when it becomes
politically unpopular," Obama said.

- bkeefe@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 JAE C. HONG/The Associated Press Sen. Barack Obama talks to reporters after a
speech saying deporting 12 million people would 'turn America into something
we're not.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH STILL IMMIGRATION REALIST

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 781 words


History won't remember President Bush as a man with a knack for deconstructing
complicated issues in ways that expose solutions or compromises. If foreign
policy is a three-dimensional sport, it's safe to assume that Mr. Bush is
playing somewhere in the instructional leagues of the first dimension.

Yet when it comes to immigration reform, he is able to see clearly that space
between distorted political extremes where the only hope of compromise exists.
The president went on a tour of Latin America last week. In Guatemala, before
boarding a flight to Mexico, he set the parameters for the immigration debate in
Congress that is about to begin.

"There will not be amnesty, automatic citizenship," he said. "It's just not
going to happen. Nor is it feasible to try to kick everybody out of our country.
That's not possible. And so I'm going to work with members of both parties to
find a rational middle ground."

Granted, Mr. Bush has dissected the problem into parts that should be obvious,
were it not for the political distortion.

There really is no significant support anywhere for a true amnesty that makes
illegal immigrants citizens overnight. People who have broken U.S. law should
not be rewarded and advanced ahead of thousands of immigrants who are following
U.S. law and applying for citizenship through legal channels.

But, as Mr. Bush suggests, it is more irrational to believe that the government
could round up and deport 12 million people, though a startling number of
politicians advocate doing just that. Even if it were possible to fill 250,000
buses with illegal immigrants and send them south, the consequences would be
dire for the U.S. economy.

Without the illegal workforce, the nation cannot produce the goods and services
needed to sustain itself. In ways they seldom bother to notice, Americans
benefit each day from the labor of people who aren't supposed to be here.

So, finding compromise means rejecting automatic citizenship. But it also must
mean creating some mechanism for legal status and permanent residency over time,
with the trade-off that illegal immigrants pay back taxes and penalties for
breaking the law. Compromise also means tightening border security.

And it also means enforcement of rules for employers and workers. Illegal
immigrants, who live anonymous lives without the protection of government, are
the country's most exploited population. With legal status comes the legitimacy
needed to deter exploitation and promote fairness in the workplace.

Mr. Bush consistently has supported these principles. What has changed in recent
months is that American people have come to support them, too.

A Gallup poll released this month found that 59 percent of Americans approve of
allowing illegal immigrants to remain here and become citizens if they meet
certain requirements. Moreover, three-fourths of the respondents said the
federal government hasn't gone far enough. The country isn't buying that a
700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexico border will solve the immigration problem.

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., are working on another
version of their comprehensive reform bill that last year won easy Senate
approval but failed in the House. The demise of Republican leadership in
Congress improves prospects for passage this time.

President Bush's foreign-policy problems in Latin America have grown worse in
his second term. Besides Venezuela, where President Hugo Chávez refers to Mr.
Bush as "political dead meat," left-leaning governments have emerged in Bolivia,
Nicaragua, Uruguay and Brazil. The president's tour of the region probably is
too little, too late, but at least could improve relations with Mexico, whose
cooperation on a range of issues the U.S. needs.

Mexican President Felipe Calderon likens the 700-mile fence to the Berlin Wall
and has implored President Bush to deliver a guest-worker program that will
ensure that $20 billion in remittances keep flowing across the border each year.

President Bush came into office promising to be a uniter, not a divider, but his
post-9/11 policies have been about as divisive as it gets. His posture as a
consensus-builder on immigration does not come easily to the imagination,
whether he's "political dead meat" or not.

"I will work with Congress, with members of both political parties," he promised
President Calderon, "to pass immigration law that will enable us to respect the
rule of law and at the same time respect humanity."

Mr. Bush's opportunities to enhance a dismal legacy are dwindling. Comprehensive
immigration reform remains his best shot.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MOM, TEEN GET NOD TO SEEK ASYLUM

BYLINE: By MEGHAN MEYER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A 15-year-old Boca Raton High School student and her mother got a reprieve from
deportation proceedings in immigration court Wednesday morning.

Judge Denise Lane allowed Sonia Choz de Puac and her daughter, Debora, to apply
for asylum.

The two were detained last year at the Miami airport on charges of violating
their visas. They spent more than a month in federal immigration detention in
rural Pennsylvania.

Debora Puac's supervisors and teammates in the Naval Junior Reserve Officer
Training Corps pushed for her release from the detention center, and they have
hoped she'd be allowed to stay. She heads to Pensacola in a few weeks for the
Naval JROTC's national competition. Last year, she placed fourth in push-ups,
and this year, she has a shot at the title.

"We hope the applications will be successful," attorney Geoffrey Hoffman said.
"They have a lot of equities in their favor."

Debora's father, Francisco Puac, received asylum in 2001. Those granted asylum
cannot return to their home countries. Sonia and Debora Puac continued to use
tourist visas that allowed them to enter and leave the country every six months
to see family in Guatemala. When they were stopped at the airport last year,
they had exceeded the six-month deadline, although they had applied for an
extension.

Before the hearing, Debora and Sonia Puac applied to join Francisco in asylum, a
process that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services handles. Hoffman had
hoped the judge would grant a continuance of their case in order for that
application to proceed. Instead, she asked Debora and Sonia to apply for asylum
on their own.

Judges such as Lane, who work for the Department of Justice, hear these kinds of
asylum applications.

Lane said she did not want the looming one-year deadline after their detainment
at the airport to elapse.

The Puacs had exceeded a two-year deadline for their first application to join
Francisco in asylum. Attorneys hope the government will grant a waiver of that
deadline.

"It does present a little bit of a strange situation," Hoffman said. "They'll
have two applications at the same time."

The family returns to court April 11 to file the asylum application. That's the
same day as JROTC nationals for Debora. Lane waived Debora's presence in court
that day. The teen, who has eight medals on her uniform, said she's glad she can
focus on meeting her push-ups goal instead of worrying about the court date.

"I think we're in good hands," she said.

~ meghan_meyer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer Debora Puac not only got a reprieve Wednesday
but also won't have to appear in court April 11 so she can be in JROTC nationals
then.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

D.C. IS STALLED ON IRAQ, BUT NOT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 494 words


The serious bidding in the negotiations for comprehensive immigration reform may
have started quietly over the congressional Easter recess when the White House
floated a proposal with new figures.

The numbers weren't about immigration quotas but prices for participating in the
guest-worker program President Bush wants to create. The latest offering from
the White House would allow illegal immigrants to apply for three-year work
visas that would cost $3,500 and could be renewed indefinitely for the same fee.
Illegal immigrants would have legal status with the visas, but to gain permanent
residency and a green card, they would have to return to their home countries
and pay a $10,000 fine to reenter the United States legally.

A White House spokesperson downplayed the proposal as "discussion points," but
the discussion clearly has taken a serious turn when carping over dollar amounts
begins. Immigrant rights advocates quickly criticized the proposals as
economically oppressive for the millions of minimum-wage workers in low-end
jobs. A $10,000 fine represents most of a year's work for many of them. What
incentive would there be for them to participate in a government program?

Yet implied in the criticism is the acknowledgment that while these numbers may
be too high, there probably are some in the middle that can work. The best news
for the nation would be that leaders in Congress have moved beyond the debate
over whether comprehensive reform should happen and now are just haggling over
the price.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has emerged as a central player
in the negotiations while the Democrats and White House have been preoccupied
with the Iraq spending bill. He has led meetings with a core group of Republican
senators, including Florida's Mel Martinez, and tried to produce a more
conservative version of a House bill introduced last month by Reps. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz.

Their plan would create a six-year path to legal residency, but it also first
introduced the requirement that illegal immigrants leave the country, then
reenter legally. The so-called "touchback" provision is an attempt to provide
political cover for lawmakers opposed to amnesty and rewarding people who have
broken the law.

Besides the size of the fines, Republicans also want to counterbalance, allowing
legal status to the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants with spending more
money for border control. There also are provisions that would favor skilled
workers over unskilled and prohibit temporary workers from bringing family
members. Both are non-starters for lawmakers such as Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass.,
who believes that Congress has a moral obligation to enable immigrant families
to work their way to residency.

Sen. McConnell's work behind the scenes and the new draft from the White House
are strong signals that while Washington can't agree on much else, political
will to deal with immigration may be forming.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH, IN MIAMI AREA, VOWS PUSH FOR IMMIGRATION PLAN

BYLINE: By BRIAN E.CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


President Bush told graduates of Miami Dade College, a campus where 66 percent
of the student body is Hispanic, that he will continue his fight for immigration
reform.

"Maintaining the promise of America requires that we remain an open and
welcoming society," Bush told more than 1,500 graduates of the community
college.

Speaking Saturday at the Kendall campus, one of eight of the college's campuses,
Bush was joined on stage by his brother, former Gov. Jeb Bush, and U.S. Sen. Mel
Martinez, R-Fla.

Bush is the first president to give a commencement address at the college, which
has more than 165,000 full- and part-time students.

"As this graduating class goes forward from this college, you enter a world of
unbounded opportunity. America's economy is prospering, our trade with the world
is flourishing and new possibilities are opening up every day," Bush said. "And
the key to unlocking those possibilities is a good education."

Bush noted that many of the students who are Hispanic are the children and
grandchildren of immigrants. Bush told them that the nation is "in the midst of
an important discussion about immigration."

Bush has struggled with his party over immigration reform. Many GOP
conservatives are adamant about not giving any kind of legal amnesty to
immigrants who broke the law to enter and stay in the United States.

Last year, the then-GOP controlled Senate passed a bill allowing illegal
immigrants to go through a number of steps over a period of years to earn
citizenship. But the GOP-led House rejected the idea, insisting on tougher
control over U.S. borders.

Now with Democrats leading the House and Senate, the White House believes it has
a better chance of winning passage of its immigration program.

Bush also spoke briefly about Cuba, saying, "In Cuba and across the world, all
who struggle for freedom have a friend in the United States, and we will stand
with them until that struggle is won."

Outside the campus, hundreds of war protesters carried handwritten signs, some
calling for Bush's ouster. Drivers who supported the protesters honked their
horns.

Bush is expected to return to Florida on Tuesday, when he will travel to Tampa
to meet with military leaders at Central Command at MacDill Air Force Base.

Before going to the college campus, Bush attended a $25,000-per-person
fund-raiser for the Republican National Committee in Key Biscayne.

~ brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 LAWRENCE JACKSON/The Associated Press 'In Cuba and across the world, all who
struggle for freedom have a friend in the United States,' President Bush told
Miami Dade College.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION STATUS CHECK FOR ARRESTED KIDS MAY END

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 268 words


An initiative to check the immigration status of every juvenile arrest in
Florida probably will end after only a year.

The Senate approved $137,477 for two Department of Juvenile Justice employees to
continue reporting youth who may be in the state illegally, but the House
refused to pay for the program.

The joint budget released Monday has no money for immigration checks on teens.

Sen. Dave Aronberg, D-Greenacres, started the program with a budget
appropriation last year in response to the case of Milagro Cunningham, who was
charged with sexually abusing an 8-year-old girl from Lake Worth and leaving her
in a recycling bin to die. Cunningham, then 17, was here on an expired visa from
the Bahamas and was not deported despite previous juvenile arrests for burglary.

From June 2006 to the last count on March 28, the Department of Juvenile Justice
had screened 10,752 teens in its detention centers and referred 364 who may be
here illegally to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for possible
deportation.

Critics of the immigration screening said it was ill-advised and ineffective.
ICE said it concentrates on adult felons and threats to national security and
does not have the resources to deport teenage offenders. Public defenders feared
it could separate families or make parents afraid to turn in delinquent teens.

Aronberg said he was disappointed that the House did not support his bill.

"I thought we could all agree that illegal immigrants who commit crimes should
be referred to the immigration authorities," he said. "I can't believe it is so
controversial."

- kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MARCH TO PUSH REFORM

BYLINE: By KEVIN DEUTSCH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer and ANA M. VALDES La Palma
Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Hundreds of marchers hoping to spur immigration reform took to the downtown
streets Tuesday shouting chants such as "long live the United States," while
immigrant groups throughout Florida had similar events to mark International
Workers Day.

The local marchers hailed from countries such as Guatemala, Mexico, Ecuador and
Haiti, and all had their own reasons for marching up Okeechobee Boulevard and
Tamarind Avenue, dressed in white shirts and waving American flags.

Above all, most said they wanted lawmakers to pass immigration reform that
provides a reasonable path to citizenship. The march, which started outside the
Kravis Center about 3 p.m. and ended near the Paul G. Rogers Federal Building on
Clematis Street, was organized by The Immigrant Rights Coalition of Palm Beach
and Martin Counties.

"I have family members that are not here legally, and they need that help," said
Simon Zachrias, 29, adding that he came to the U.S. from Guatemala illegally
more than 12 years ago, but now has legal resident status. "They're looking for
a good life, a good future, just like I was. They should have that opportunity."

Carlos Cruz, 47, a Honduras native, said he has lived and worked in the United
States for 17 years but fears he will lose his job because he is undocumented.

"Not having your residency makes things very difficult," Cruz said. "The fact
that people work, and later do not get paid and do not get a legal status, that
has to end."

Cruz and his wife, Constancia, say they have an even deeper issue with
immigration laws: Their 15-year-old daughter, Lizzet, applied for a scholarship
to go to high school last year, but her parents say she didn't receive it
because of her illegal status.

In Belle Glade, a crowd of 200, mostly young people wearing white shirts and
carrying U.S. flags, walked 5 miles to show support for immigration reform.

The rally began at Pioneer Park and was organized by Sonia Barajas, 19, a
student at Palm Beach Community College. The turnout was not as great as last
year's 5,000 because people were afraid that immigration officials would show up
and detain them, Barajas said.

"I would have liked it that people would not have been afraid and that everyone
would have united to lift our voice against the raids and the separation of
families," Barajas said.

Civil rights and immigrant groups sponsored similar events in other cities,
including Miami, Tampa and Orlando. Some were planned for later in the day so
participants would not have to leave work -- and risk losing their jobs.

The latest immigration bill would put some illegal immigrants on a path to
citizenship, but would require hefty penalties, trips back home and long waits.
Many conservatives call this proposal overly permissive.

Many immigrant advocates expressed a sense of urgency Tuesday, as they see a
limited window for overhauling the immigration laws before the 2008 presidential
campaign heats up.

"It's time for change," said Perla Garcia, 42, who came to the U.S. from Mexico
in 1976 and now lives in West Palm Beach. "Something needs to happen soon."

La Palma staff writer Mirta Luaces and The Associated Press contributed to this
story.

~ kevin_deutsch@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer OUT OF THE SHADOWS AND INTO THE STREETS Rallying
Tuesday in West Palm Beach are (from left) Rigoberto Lopez, Santos Sapon, Maria
Dominguez and Juan Dominguez, all of Indiantown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A FLAWED BREAKTHROUGH ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 490 words


The only way to get an immigration reform bill through Congress is to produce
legislation that has something to annoy everyone. The Bush administration and a
bipartisan group of senators may have come close to pulling that off.

The deal they announced Thursday is 380 pages of trade-offs designed to give
enough lawmakers political cover so that they can support an overhaul of the
nation's immigration policy, at least theoretically. It comes with its own
language: Z visas, touchback rules, triggers and skill points. As much as it is
a breakthrough, the agreement also is an invention of necessity and compromise.
It's been 21 years since the last reform effort, and the country can't ignore
our broken system any longer.

The core of the deal is a plan to legalize the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants without offering what critics credibly could call amnesty. Anyone who
came to the United States before Jan. 1 could apply for probationary legal
status after passing a criminal background check. Applicants then could obtain Z
visas by paying back taxes and up to $5,000 in fines and fees, and learning
English. Immigrants would have to wait eight years to move from a Z visa to
permanent residency. To get the green cards, heads of households would have to
return to their homeland and reenter the U.S. legally - a "touchback"
requirement that would satisfy lawmakers opposed to what they see as rewarding
lawbreakers.

In a departure from long-standing policy, the plan would emphasize job skills,
not family connections, in deciding whom to admit. The government would use a
point system to rate education, English fluency and work history. Immigrants who
score well would get priority for green cards. Before legalization could begin,
however, the government would have to complete security "triggers," such as
deploying 18,000 new Border Patrol agents.

It's easy to spot the flaws. Yes, the nation needs more highly skilled
immigrants and incentives could help to attract them, but most of the immigrants
at issue do unskilled labor, especially as farmworkers and cleaners. The
proposed guest-worker program has an unrealistic requirement that participants
leave the country every two years and stay out for a year. That proposal would
encourage illegal behavior and a continuing subclass of workers, when the
purpose of the bill is to eliminate both. It also is unrealistic to expect that
a laborer earning $8 an hour can come up with $5,000 in fines and fees. There's
no point in creating a guest-worker program that workers can't afford to join.

There's also no point in passing good immigration reform if government -
especially this administration - can't carry out the reform. Still, President
Bush is right to mix respect for immigrants with America's economic need. And
for the first time in decades, the debate on immigration, which is so important
to a state such as Florida, can begin with honesty instead of hypocrisy.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EVEN IF CONGRESS WAITS, IMMIGRATION ISSUE WON'T

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 431 words


Comprehensive immigration reform is one of the most complex and politically
contentious issues Congress has faced in, oh, the 21 years since the last major
immigration bill. But postponing action for perhaps another two years isn't just
unacceptable; it's self-defeating.

The bipartisan Senate bill went on the shelf Friday after supporters got only 45
votes of the 60 they needed to end debate. The likelihood of bringing the bill
back fades as next year's election nears and campaigns of both parties begin to
worry more about voting blocs than doing the unpopular work the nation needs. If
not this year, reform efforts probably will have to wait until 2009, when
there's a new Congress and a new occupant in the White House. That would keep
the 12 million illegal immigrants already here in limbo and leave local and
state governments stuck dealing every day with the mess Washington won't clean
up.

Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., outsmarted himself by forcing a vote to end
debate without having the votes to win. Sen. Reid criticized President Bush for
not working harder on a bill the White House supports. That's buck-passing. Mr.
Bush was at the Group of Eight summit in Germany on Friday, but with his
approval rating sliding to new lows, his potential influence would have been
marginal even if he had been in Washington.

If Sen. Reid can't keep moderates from his own party in line, it's hard to
believe that the president could do better with the other side. This was
supposed to be the president's top domestic priority and a chance to salvage
something to enhance an otherwise dismal legacy. Leadership from the White House
seems essential to brokering a compromise, but Sen. Reid knows that President
Bush has demonstrated little of that in his six-plus years.

A recent poll by the Pew Research Center showed how vulnerable the issue is to
political distortion. When the word amnesty wasn't used, 62 percent of
Republican respondents said they approved of allowing illegal immigrants who are
here a chance at citizenship if they have jobs. But add the word amnesty with
the same conditions, and only 47 percent of Republicans approved. Strong
majorities on both sides of the issue are opposed to amnesty but can't agree on
what it is. Two things polls consistently show are that Americans want tougher
border security and are willing to give illegal immigrants legal status as part
of the deal to get it.

If Congress isn't up to dealing with the toughest issues, who needs Congress?
Sen. Reid should keep bringing the bill back until there's some courage in the
Capitol.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SAVE IMMIGRATION BILL, IF IT'S STILL WORTH SAVING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 380 words


Seeking votes for his nearly doomed immigration reforms, President Bush went up
to Capitol Hill last Tuesday to drop in on the weekly policy luncheon held by
Republican senators. The many Republicans who rail against "amnesty for
illegals" continued to treat his ideas as if they'd just swum across the Rio
Grande.

Which two days later set up the strange spectacle of Majority Leader Harry Reid,
D-Nev., for once looking more like a friend to the president than staunch
Republicans such as Jeff Sessions of Alabama. Sen. Reid and Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., unexpectedly announced that the Senate would take up the
immigration bill, probably before the July 4 recess.

The bill's survival is a good thing, though it's an open question whether any
bill that can survive the upcoming frenzy of amendments still would be a good
enough bill to deserve continued support from the coalition of business
interests and immigrant advocates that pushed reform this far. The Senate
already did considerable damage by amending the bill to terminate a central
provision -- a guest worker program -- after just five years. That timeline
ruins the certainty both businesses and prospective workers need.

The biggest danger is that GOP senators will load up the bill with unworkable
requirements -- such as an amendment that would force workers living illegally
in America to leave the country and return legally. That would perpetuate the
underground system we've got now.

The only way to bring the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants into the light
-- which is crucial for security and for ensuring a fair economic system -- is
to give them a path to legal status. That should include fines, payment of taxes
due and a requirement to learn English. Making them all go home and come back is
as impractical as the call to deport them all. Most polls show that a majority
of Americans support such a policy.

After the luncheon, President Bush promised to add more than $4 billion to
improve enforcement and border security. He didn't provide enough details to
tell whether the idea makes fiscal or practical sense. It obviously makes
political sense for the president trying to give immigration hardliners in his
own party some cover if they decide to jump over to his side of the fence.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STAMPING OUT REFORM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 292 words


The Bush administration makes its case for immigration reform by saying that the
government can manage a guest-worker program for millions and screen foreigners
as they enter the country. That's a hard sell when the government can't even
deliver passports to U.S. citizens in a timely manner.

The head of the passport office told Congress on Tuesday that her agency badly
underestimated the surge in applications after new rules for travel took effect
in January. The changes require U.S. citizens flying to Mexico, Canada, the
Bahamas or the Caribbean to have passports. Maura Harty, assistant secretary of
state for consular affairs, said the department issued 12.1 million passports
last year and expected 16.2 million applications this year. Instead, it expects
17.7 million by year's end and 23 million in 2008.

The demand has overloaded the system with a backlog of 3 million requests. The
wait time has gone from about three weeks to as long as four months. Angry
travelers are calling lawmakers to complain about lost business and missed
weddings. "You have a mess," U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., told Ms. Harty, who
said the government would allow citizens without passports entry until Sept. 30
if they had applied.

The new rules were supposed to help the Department of Homeland Security keep
terrorists from entering the country. The government started warning Americans
that they would need passports four years ago, and has pushed back the deadlines
several times. Extremist critics of immigration reform argue that illegals are
invaders. The stronger argument is that the government can't pull off what
reform would require. If the U.S. government can't get U.S. citizens to comply
with border rules, good luck with guest workers and foreigners.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ,COLLEAGUES REPORT THREATS OVER MEASURE

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., is among several lawmakers who say they have received
threatening letters or telephone calls during the emotionally charged debate
over immigration reform.

Martinez spokesman Ken Lundberg said a threatening letter arrived at the
senator's home last weekend and was turned over to Capitol police.

He did not elaborate on the letter's content.

Martinez, who was born in Cuba and is the Senate's only immigrant, was one of
the architects of the legislation that failed Thursday. The most vitriolic
opposition has come from conservative Republicans, who have labeled it an
amnesty program for immigrants who entered the country illegally.

Meanwhile, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said on the Senate floor
Thursday that he had received a threatening letter from his hometown. Reid said
he turned it over to Capitol police.

Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C., said someone phoned his office and "made a threat
about knowing where I lived."

Burr passed on the information to law enforcement officials.

"There were enough specifics to raise some alarm bells," he said.

~ larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mel Martinez (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION VOID FILLED WITH BAD IDEAS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 692 words


The failure of Congress to pass an immigration reform bill means that state and
local governments will continue to struggle to make an unworkable system work.

Immigration policy is supposed to be the exclusive province of the federal
government. But with Washington ignoring the problem, police departments and
municipal agencies will continue to find themselves performing immigration
enforcement roles they are unqualified for and unhappy to perform.

The defeat of the Senate bill last week hits Western border states especially
hard. On the front lines of the immigration mess, Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano
already feels like she's running a federal agency. Two years ago, she declared a
state of emergency to free up disaster money and help cities and counties with
border control.

The states have no choice but to convert local law enforcement into
"pseudo-immigration agents," she says, and incrementally pass laws and
ordinances to deal with illegal immigrants. It is a legal hodge-podge of
conflicting measures that ensures inconsistent and arbitrary enforcement.

It's what happens when the federal government doesn't do its job.

Gov. Napolitano went to Washington last week in a futile attempt to get Congress
to come to its senses. Lawmakers didn't try telling her that at least she would
be getting a fine new federal fence along her Arizona border. The governor is
already on the record about the futility of that idea: "Show me a 50-foot wall,
and I'll show you a 51-foot ladder."

After the Senate bill died, she was equally articulate and just plain right.

"For years now, I have spoken out on the devastation, the lack of action from
the federal government and the desperate need for reform," Gov. Napolitano said.
"By leaving it unattended, Congress is shirking its responsibility to not only
Arizona but the entire country."

Across the nation, where the federal government has left a void, frustrated
local lawmakers are inclined to fill it with bad ideas. You don't need to go to
the Mexico border to find that out; maybe just show up at a Home Depot parking
lot.

Local governments in a growing number of major metropolitan areas -- among them
Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Washington -- have passed ordinances
requiring Home Depot to provide accommodations for day laborers who come to the
company's stores.

The typical law calls for Home Depot stores to have facilities that include
bathrooms, seating areas and security staff to keep day laborers from soliciting
jobs on nearby sidewalks and streets.

In Palm Beach County last year, sheriff's deputies arrested 15 Hispanic and
Mayan laborers outside a Home Depot in suburban Lake Worth. The men were charged
with trespassing after complaints that customers were being harassed in their
cars. Deputies cited and released the workers, and local lawmakers had the good
sense to do nothing. At least, so far.

One of the amendments that died with the Senate bill last week would have
prohibited city councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for
day-worker services.

Why should local governments single out Home Depot for a dysfunctional U.S.
policy and drag a hardware store into the hospitality business? Guilt by
association isn't reason enough.

It's like requiring Victoria's Secret to put on sex education classes or
McDonald's to install Stairmasters.

The cross hairs of blame should line up on the right targets. Congress could
have approved billions to secure the borders and implement a system for checking
the backgrounds of the 12 million illegal immigrants in the country. Congress
could have approved a guest-worker program that would have put day laborers into
a legal system, gotten them off street corners and satisfied the needs of
business.

Gov. Napolitano will have to figure out ways to get more money to cash-strapped
border towns; local cops will waste more time as psuedo-immigration agents; and
Home Depot will install more toilets and picnic tables because Congress lacked
the political courage to take on the nation's most pressing domestic problem.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ADMINISTRATION'S WOUNDS KILLED IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 426 words


Only 12 of the 49 Senate Republicans sided with President Bush and voted to
advance comprehensive immigration reform on Thursday.

Small wonder the bill died and is all but certain to stay dead until after a new
administration takes over in 2009. Without persuasion from the White House, it
is impossible to get through Congress a compromise with so many moving parts and
that has to satisfy so many different factions, ideologies and political
interests. Virtually any amendment was enough to tear apart the delicate network
of trade-offs, handshakes and settlements that were the basis for reform
legislation. When multiple amendments started coming from all corners, it was
clear the bill was doomed.

President Bush probably lost what was supposed to be the cornerstone of his
domestic agenda on the streets of Baghdad as much as in the halls of Congress.
Immigration reform was collateral damage from the fiasco in Iraq. With an
abysmally low approval rating and an administration even Republicans regard as
incompetent, President Bush could work the phones all he wants and still not
persuade enough members of his own party to fall in line.

Even a strong president would have struggled to get the votes needed to overcome
the campaign of paranoia fomented by extremists and talk radio hosts. A weak
president had no shot. The president who six years ago got whatever he wanted
from his party and most of what he wanted from the opposition now faces the grim
prospect of having nothing to show for his second term except the evolving
calamity in Iraq and the adulation of Albanians.

Americans will suffer from the federal government's inability to enact an
effective strategy for securing borders and dealing with the 12 million illegal
immigrants already in the country. Local and state governments will have no
choice but to continue to take on immigration responsibilities that rightfully
belong to Washington. Business will continue to struggle to find a reliable work
force of foreigners to fill jobs U.S. citizens will not take. Immigrant
advocates will continue to represent victims of smuggling, crime and employer
abuse who could have found protection in a legal system.

"I don't see where the political will is for this issue to be dealt with," said
Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who was one of the architects of the frail compromise
that fell apart. Immigration reform, like Social Security reform before it, has
proven too complex and contentious for a White House weakened by an ill-advised
war and a Congress compromised by political self-interest.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RULES SET WHICH DOCUMENTS NEEDED FOR MEDICAID BENEFITS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration has announced new rules regarding what documents will be
accepted to establish American citizenship in order to receive Medicaid
benefits.

American citizenship or legal immigration status has been a requirement for
Medicaid eligibility since the program began in 1965. But until a law enacted
last year, states could accept an applicant's statement of citizenship as
sufficient. The new law makes people prove their citizenship.

The rule, which takes effect July 13, does not change what documents must be
provided to prove legal immigration status.

"We recognize the diversity of beneficiaries served by Medicaid, and these new
guidelines provide for a range of ways that citizenship status and personal
identity may be documented," said Leslie Norwalk, acting administrator of the
federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. "Our overriding goal is in
ensuring that Medicaid dollars are being spent effectively on those who are
qualified for coverage."

The new rule also clarifies a policy change announced in March that says any
newborn child whose mother was receiving Medicaid at the time of the birth will
be deemed eligible for Medicaid benefits for one year -- regardless of the
mother's immigration status.

Under the new rule, the government establishes four levels of proof, each level
requiring increasingly more documentation:

- First level -- Federal documents such as a U.S. passport, certificate of U.S.
citizenship or certificate of U.S. naturalization.

- Second level -- A U.S. birth certificate or other government documents of
birth, or U.S. government forms certifying the birth of a U.S. citizen abroad.
Additional proof of identity, such as a state driver license, military
identification card, school identification card or state-issued identification
card, is also required.

- Third level -- Documents such as hospital records or insurance records that
are at least five years old listing a U.S. place of birth. Other acceptable
records could include religious documents recorded within three months of birth
or early school records listing place of birth. Additional proof of identity is
required.

- Fourth level -- Federal or state census records showing U.S. citizenship or
U.S. place of birth; institutional records such as nursing home admissions or
medical records that are at least five years old. Additional proof of identity
is also required.

In rare circumstances, the new rule says applicants may swear an affidavit of
their citizenship that must be signed by two people -- at least one of whom may
not be a relative. Swearing false affidavits would be considered perjury.

~ larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VISA DELAY IN THE LAND OF THE FEE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 705 words


Opponents of immigration reform made loud complaints last month about how
proposals in a congressional compromise were patently unfair.

They said thousands of immigrants already were in the system, waiting in line
for legal status. Those applicants were playing by the rules, and it wouldn't be
fair to move ahead of them any of the 12 million immigrants who came here
illegally.

Americans can't stand foreigners who cut in line, so the argument quickly won
the backing of Congress.

But, reasonable as it sounded, this is a principle based largely on a fantasy.
No one should believe that the United States has an orderly or even logical
system for determining who gets to stay in the country.

All it takes to determine that is to have one Cuban refugee and one Haitian
refugee land in the same boat. The Cuban will be drinking beer in Hialeah the
next day, while the Haitian is on his way back to Port-au-Prince and conditions
that are far worse than in Cuba.

The U.S. system is neither orderly nor logical, so forget the mental picture of
immigrants with applications in hand standing in neat, straight lines heading
toward an open door. The government doesn't base its decisions on fairness as
much as political expediency.

And sometimes, like last week, it just does what it wants.

Visas offered, then yanked away

Without notice or reasons why, immigration officials decided to withdraw tens of
thousands of job-based visas that the government had offered last month to
foreign professionals. On June 13, the government announced that beginning July
2 it would begin accepting green card applications for highly skilled
immigrants. On Monday, the State Department and Homeland Security announced they
were changing their minds and would not grant any more visas for 2007.

The backlogs for employment-based visas force applicants to wait years just for
the chance to submit their paperwork. So, the promise of the government's open
window was a precious opportunity. But immigrants who had stood patiently in
line and, at considerable expense, applied for legal status were abruptly
double-crossed.

"People ask why those who come to the United States illegally can't just follow
the rules," said Kathleen Campbell Walker, president of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "But here people followed the rules and did everything
right, yet without warning or explanation, the door was slammed in their faces.
The hoax perpetrated by these two government agencies is unconscionable."

Many medical and high-tech professionals are among the 60,000 immigrants turned
away. They have no recourse but to continue waiting and hope that the government
takes applications in October for next year, or at least is honest about its
plans.

Security, or money, at issue?

Some immigrant advocates wondered whether the reversal might have been prompted
in part by the recent car-bombing plots in Britain. Authorities have implicated
seven immigrant doctors, and the arrests have put a new, upscale face on
terrorism. If Homeland Security had stopped the process in the name of, well,
homeland security, it'd be difficult to complain.

Palm Beach Gardens immigration attorney Jeff Devore believes that the decision
had more to do with money than security. On July 30, the government is raising
its processing fees an average of 66 percent. Work permits that cost $180 now
will increase to $350. Postponing the opening for applications until October
means more revenue for the good ol' Citizenship and Immigration Services
Department.

"A lot of it was filing-fee driven," Mr. Devore said. "This is something that is
unprecedented in U.S. immigration history. They pulled a bait-and-switch on us."

Mr. Devore says he has about 200 very unhappy clients who filed applications.
They got medical examinations and documents attesting to their work skills and
employers' sponsorships. Don't try telling them about standing in line and
waiting their turn.

"It's ridiculous," Mr. Devore said. "These were people with skills that we need.
These were people who were following the law, and now we're screwing with them."

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com Randy Schultz's column will return July 22.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

YOU CAN'T EAT WHAT THEY DON'T PICK

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 676 words


Idaho Republican Larry Craig ranks among the most conservative members of the
U.S. Senate, and California Democrat Barbara Boxer could be the most liberal
lawmaker in the entire Congress.

But last week, Sens. Craig and Boxer stood shoulder-to-shoulder, rallying to
each other's support and defense, during an often contentious fight on the
Senate floor. There was no left or right. There was no ideological divide or
partisan posturing. Sens. Craig and Boxer were inseparable as they talked about
the nation's most divisive issue: immigration reform.

The reason? Both come from states that stand to take heavy losses of fruits and
vegetables because farmers are unable to find workers for harvesting.

Sen. Craig has potatoes that are moldering in the ground. Sen. Boxer has oranges
that are rotting on the trees.

When Congress failed to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill last month,
provisions that would have allowed migrant farmworkers temporary legal status
failed, too. Across the country, tens of thousands of immigrants who fear
deportation or government penalties are staying away from farm fields.

"American agriculture is now in a crisis, in part because we have failed to pass
an immigration bill," Sen. Craig told his colleagues. He said Idaho was short
about 20 percent of the farmworkers it needed; nationally, the underemployment
rate for the harvest season was about 35 percent.

Sen. Boxer predicted that the situation would get worse -- "this is just the
start of this thing" -- and pleaded with senators to set aside immigration
politics and fix the farm crisis by passing AgJobs, a guest-worker plan that has
bounced between Senate committees and assorted floor fights for four years.

In fact, AgJobs has been around so long that one of its principal authors,
Florida's Bob Graham, has long been gone from the Senate. The bill, a five-year
plan that would legalize between 900,000 and 1.2million farmworkers, ran aground
again last month when the compromise over immigration reform fell apart.

Sen. Craig is among a group of farm state senators -- Florida's Mel Martinez and
Bill Nelson are also aboard -- trying to pass AgJobs as stand-alone legislation
and avoid the trappings of the greater immigration debate.

But that isn't easy. It may not even be possible.

Efforts to get AgJobs moving have stalled because of bickering over border
security. Senate Republicans last week pushed measures that would appropriate $3
billion to add fences and patrols to the U.S.-Mexico border. More problematic,
in the GOP amendment was a provision to require mandatory jail time for
immigrants who overstay their visas. It also gave police, hospital workers and
some public employees the authority to question people about their immigration
status.

Democrats protested. Republicans dug in. The debate got testy and gave people in
the C-SPAN cafeteria something to chat about. But nothing got done.

So Sen. Craig's potatoes are a molderin' in their graves, and Sen. Boxer's fruit
is dying on the vine.

Frustrated with the federal government's inability to solve the immigrant labor
problem, some farmers are renting land in Mexico to grow their crops. You know
Congress has failed the nation when American farmers start deporting themselves.

Florida agriculture has labor problems but no crisis -- yet. The winter harvest
will tell the story. Without some sort of guest-worker reform, says Florida
Fruit & Vegetable Association President Mike Stuart, there will be shortages of
manpower. "That means leaving fruit and vegetable crops in the fields," he said.
"Consequently, production will shift offshore, and we will become more dependent
on foreign sources for our food supply."

U.S. consumers, who already were trying to figure out how to protect themselves
against foods from Asia and Latin America that come here with inadequate
inspections and safeguards, can blame Congress for making a trip to the
supermarket more expensive, and perhaps riskier.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 13, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INACTION ON IMMIGRATION TOUCHES OFF FREE-FOR-ALL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 380 words


Congress failed on comprehensive immigration reform, so now the nation faces
piecemeal proposals from all sides of the issue. It's open season on
brainstorming but closed season on good ideas.

The Bush administration has announced a crackdown on illegals in the workplace,
a coalition of Senate Republicans wants more border control money, Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa., wants to hand out 12 million green cards, and dozens of states
and municipalities are writing their own immigration laws. The failure of
Congress to enact reform has touched off a free-for-all of partial remedies, or,
worse, bad ideas.

The White House is putting more pressure on employers who will face criminal
penalties if they use workers without valid Social Security numbers. The
administration will ask states to share driver license information with Homeland
Security to create a system for employment verification. The agency also will
target international gang members for deportation. The workplace crackdown is
sure to drive more immigrants underground and exacerbate labor shortages,
particularly in agriculture and construction.

A coalition of five Senate Republicans -- Jon Kyl and John McCain of Arizona,
Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John Cornyn of
Texas -- is sponsoring a bill that calls for the hiring of another 14,000 Border
Patrol agents and more fencing. Most of the provisions are leftovers from the
congressional debate that weren't caught up in the unresolved dispute over a
guest-worker program. Sen. Specter also is trying to move beyond the debate
impasses by eliminating the proposed Z-visas and giving all illegal immigrants
green cards instead. Though the cards would not come with a path to citizenship,
the idea looks too much like amnesty to gain much traction.

The National Conference of State Legislatures reports that states passed 171
immigration bills during the first six months of 2007, on pace to double last
year's total. Immigration law, which was supposed to be the exclusive province
of the federal government, has become a patchwork of disparate local rules and
uneven enforcement.

Congress will try again to pass reforms when it returns next month. If it fails
again, the states will continue to fill the void, and not fill it very well.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AN IMMIGRATION (NON) FIX

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 378 words


The failure of Congress to deliver comprehensive immigration reform means that
the nation will keep trying to fix piece-by-piece a system that can't be fixed
piece-by-piece because other pieces break.

Last week, a federal judge in San Francisco reminded Americans how problematic
partial fixes can be. U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer struck down the Bush
administration's new rule that would have forced employers to fire workers if
their Social Security numbers could not be verified.

The idea was to crack down on illegal immigrants who use fake identities and the
businesses who hire them. The plan, which the Bush administration and Department
of Homeland Security rolled out with fanfare, was to have the Social Security
Administration notify employers when their employees' numbers could not be
verified. The agency had 141,000 "no-match letters" ready to send out to
employers, with a warning from Homeland Security that they had 90 days to clear
up the ID discrepancies or fire the offending workers.

Judge Breyer said Homeland Security had overstepped and had no business making
such a sweeping policy change without considering the impact on millions of
employees and employers. Along with many labor groups that criticized the new
rule, the judge worried that the federal government is unprepared to assist
workers in sorting out the clerical errors, bad record-keeping and bureaucratic
obstacles at Social Security -- certainly not within 90 days. Many legal workers
were sure to become casualties of the ham-handed purge.

From the outset, enforcement problems made the new rule inherently flawed.
Social Security is not allowed to share information with Homeland Security.
Immigration officials had no way to find out which workers had fake IDs unless
tipsters came forward to blow the whistle. DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff
actually tried arguing that this was sure to happen. How it would happen, he
couldn't say.

Penalizing employers who hire and exploit illegal workers is essential to
reforming immigration policy, but the penalties have to be enforceable and fair.
Mr. Chertoff's brainstorm makes no sense until it can be fitted into the
sweeping overhaul the nation needs to secure borders and deal with the 12
million illegal immigrants already here.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

END LOCAL DEMAGOGUERY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 445 words


The immigration "debate" is never short on hyperbole. Still, the protesters at
Jupiter's El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center last weekend took distortion to a
new level.

About 100 people came from around South Florida to demonstrate against the labor
center. They were angry, vocal, and generally off-base. They accused Jupiter of
creating El Sol to help illegal immigrants. In fact, the center assists day
laborers, many of whom are U.S. citizens or legal immigrants. Protesters blamed
illegal immigrants for lowering wages. How about blaming American consumers for
demanding cheap goods and services? One protester called the center a "Taj
Mahal" where workers enjoy extravagant amenities. Folding chairs, Styrofoam cups
and mass-produced coffee is extravagance?

Leading the protesters was state Rep. Gayle Harrell, R-Stuart. She is running
for the congressional seat of Rep. Tim Mahoney, D-Palm Beach Gardens, and has
chosen immigration as the issue on which to demagogue. Her bill in the
Legislature would prohibit local governments from assisting labor centers such
as El Sol. House Speaker Marco Rubio, R-West Miami, correctly believes that
immigration policy is a federal responsibility. He calls it "political
grandstanding" when House members start pushing immigration bills.

Jupiter had little choice but to support a labor center to prevent the traffic
hazards of workers and employers meeting on street corners. By helping to move
immigrants out of the shadows and into the community, the town promotes
compliance with local ordinances and deters abuses against workers. El Sol is
Jupiter's pragmatic and progressive solution to a problem the federal government
created, then ignored.

Last week, federal prosecutors won a conviction against a West Palm Beach man
who ran a nationwide janitorial service for restaurant chains such as Hard Rock
Café and Dave & Buster's. A judge sentenced Scott Cunningham to four years in
prison and ordered him to make restitution for evading $15.7 million in taxes.
Cunningham's company hired hundreds of illegal immigrants, paid them in cash off
the books and often mistreated them.

Workers had no recourse. At El Sol, workers have recourse, employers must adhere
to standards and the community benefits from a reliable source of labor that
supports the local economy. The protesters at El Sol ended up protesting against
themselves. They complained that too many immigrants don't speak English, yet El
Sol offers workers English classes. Hundreds have taken them since the center
opened 18 months ago.

Grandstanding politicians and aspiring vigilantes should let Jupiter handle its
own problems. The town has shown that it knows how.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM SEEKERS FIND TOUGH CROWD IN MIAMI JUDGES

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1493 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


One sister was murdered.

A second sister was raped.

The third sister, Marlene, says her business was burned down by the same Haitian
political thugs.

According to Marlene's court file, her family was targeted for only one reason:
its support for exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Marlene fled to Florida and applied for political asylum. But her application
was refused recently and she faces deportation back to Haiti.

Marlene (a pseudonym) is not alone in being denied asylum. Miami immigration
judges deny more asylum applicants than any of the 54 immigration courts in the
nation.

But Marlene's case is particularly perplexing. The sister who was raped
recounted the same family saga to a Miami immigration judge not long before and
was awarded political asylum. A different judge heard Marlene's case and turned
her down.

Her attorney says the judge denied her petition, in part, because she lacked a
death certificate for her sister that listed the cause: murder.

"But how can you ask a person who is being persecuted under a certain government
to go to that government for a document that says they are being persecuted?"
says Randolph McGrorty, head of Catholic Charities Legal Services in Miami,
which represents Marlene. "That isn't going to happen."

Many families in South Florida who are here legally -- especially Haitians,
Colombians and, increasingly, Venezuelans -- have relatives such as Marlene who
apply for political asylum in Miami Immigration Court. Decisions there can be
confounding and emotionally grueling for them.

Even some immigration judges have grave doubts about the state of affairs, in
which judges have hundreds of cases and are forced to make decisions with
worrisome speed. They say the U.S. promise to shelter, at least temporarily,
those whose lives are endangered because of political persecution is being
abandoned in some cases.

"Our country has a legacy of providing due process to everyone," says Judge Dana
Marks of San Francisco, president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges. "These are death penalty cases at times. If they are denied, some of
these people are facing death. We are not providing that due process. It's a
very serious situation."

Crackdowns by immigration officials and a spike in deportations since Sept. 11,
2001, have stoked political asylum applications. Of the nation's 54 Immigration
Courts, New York, Miami, Los Angeles and San Francisco are the busiest. Miami
judges alone decided 19,402 cases in fiscal years 2001 to 2006.

Of those courts Miami has the smallest percentage of asylum applications
approved: 23 percent compared with a 40 percent average nationwide, according to
a study three university investigators published last year.

The other court in Florida is in Orlando, and it hears much fewer cases. A study
by two professors at Georgetown University and another at Temple found Orlando
judges approved 49 percent of asylum petitions, more than twice the rate in
Miami.

For certain nationalities, the odds are worse. Fifteen percent of Haitians
applying for asylum in the Miami court win their cases. Colombians win 27
percent of the time in Miami, while they win much more often in other venues.

"Certain nationalities just have a harder row to hoe here," McGrorty says.

Immigration attorneys and other refugee advocates acknowledge that many asylum
applications do not deserve to be approved because the people are fleeing
financial hardship and not political persecution. However, they say other
applicants need asylum.

One set of figures that troubles those observers is the discrepancy among
judges. Some judges approve fewer than 10 percent of asylum applicants, while
some approve more than 70 percent, according to the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse at Syracuse University, which studied 140,000 decisions nationwide
between 2001 and 2006.

The clearinghouse listed 242 immigration judges who had decided 100 or more
cases. Miami had four of the top 10 toughest judges. Judge Mahlon Hanson, who
denied 97.6 percent of applicants, was leader. Nine of the top 20 toughest
judges in the country were in Miami.

Since cases are doled out to judges at random, the most crucial moment in a case
can be when a judge is assigned.

"You know if you're before a particular judge, the cards are stacked against
you," says Romy Lerner, staff attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center
in Miami.

One clear example involves Colombians, whose country has been ravaged by
guerrilla war for decades. One Miami judge granted asylum to 88 percent of the
334 Colombians he saw during five years. Another judge granted asylum to 5
percent of 426 Colombians.

As Miami immigration attorney Julie Ferguson puts it: "It's a crapshoot."

The authors of the 2007 study and South Florida observers say certain factors
influence how a judge tends to rule. Women judges nationwide grant asylum more
often than men: 54 percent to 37.

Experience matters. Many immigration judges are former attorneys for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, now part of the Department of Homeland
Security, and they represented the government in asylum cases. They tend to deny
asylum more often.

Judges who worked for organizations that defend the rights of immigrants or the
poor, a smaller group, tend to approve more petitions.

The judges themselves say the biggest reform needed is more judges and more
staff to deal with the flood of cases.

"I'll give you one example," Marks says. "In the year 2000, each immigration
judge in Denver had a caseload of 400 cases. Now the caseload for each judge is
1,700 cases."

Federal judges across the country have at least one and sometimes two judicial
law clerks who do initial reading of cases and legal research.

"In Miami, we have three clerks for about 20 judges," says Judge Denise Slavin
of Miami, vice president of the national immigration judges organization.

Judges are pushed to get cases done quickly, and that isn't always easy, Slavin
says.

"We're talking about people who are trying to get documents out of foreign
countries," she says. "That can be time-consuming."

In fact, just getting paperwork can be a nightmare.

Slavin recalls a series of cases involving Colombians. Paperwork in asylum cases
has to be signed by a specific Colombian official.

"But a plane that man was on was hijacked and he was kidnapped, so there was no
way to get the documents certified," she says.

Marks says the job is enormously demanding.

"You need to be a political scientist," she says. "You need to read through
thousands of pages of country conditions, and you're being told to do that under
the gun."

Marks says that since criticism emerged in congressional hearings the past two
years, the Executive Office of Immigration Review has increased training for
judges. Also, new judges must pass an examination, something not necessary
before.

Lory Rosenberg, a former judge with the Board of Immigration Appeals, which
reviews asylum decisions, says reform is badly needed.

"I hope they can make it better, more fair," she says, "especially when we are
talking about life and death."

Staff researchers Melanie Mena and Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

How Miami immigration judges rank

Based on data for fiscal years 2001 to 2006, Miami had four of the 10 toughest
judges in the country and nine of the top 20.
                            Applications     % U.S.
                       considered denied       rank
Mahlon F. Hanson                   1,388 97.6%    1
John Opaciuch                        902 93.6%    6
Adam Opaciuch                        306 91.2%    9
Mark H. Metcalf*                     141 90.8%   10
Rex J. Ford                        1,544 90.7%   11
Earle B. Wilson**                    386 89.6%   13
Denise A. Marks Lane               1,684 88.0%   16
Keith C. Williams*                   558 87.8%   19
Kevin G. Bradley                   1,074 87.8%   19
J. Daniel Dowell                   1,372 87.5%   21
Teofilo Chapa                      1,413 87.0%   24
Charles J. Sanders                 1,421 86.3%   28
Ronald G. Sonom*                   1,175 82.1%   35
Bruce W. Solow                     1,544 81.5%   37
Scott G. Alexander                 1,342 79.7%   47
Harold Lloyd King Jr.*               184 79.3%   50
Nancy R. McCormack                 1,360 79.1%   52
Pedro A. Miranda                   1,386 78.0%   58
Lilliana Torreh-Bayout             1,630 76.0%   71
Elisa M. Sukkar                    1,217 73.0%   79
Seymour R. Kleinfeld*                971 70.4%   90
Michael C. Horn                      875 70.1%   93
Stephen E. Mander                  1,470 69.0%   98
Anthony J. Randall*                1,364 62.9%  118
Denise N. Slavin                   1,541 38.9%  204
Sandra S. Coleman*                 1,158 21.8%  235
Mahlon F. Hanson                   1,388 97.6%    1
John Opaciuch                        902 93.6%    6
Adam Opaciuch                        306 91.2%    9
Mark H. Metcalf*                     141 90.8%   10
Rex J. Ford                        1,544 90.7%   11
Earle B. Wilson**                    386 89.6%   13
Denise A. Marks Lane               1,684 88.0%   16
Keith C. Williams*                   558 87.8%   19
Kevin G. Bradley                   1,074 87.8%   19
J. Daniel Dowell                   1,372 87.5%   21
Teofilo Chapa                      1,413 87.0%   24
Charles J. Sanders                 1,421 86.3%   28
Ronald G. Sonom*                   1,175 82.1%   35
Bruce W. Solow                     1,544 81.5%   37
Scott G. Alexander                 1,342 79.7%   47
Harold Lloyd King Jr.*               184 79.3%   50
Nancy R. McCormack                 1,360 79.1%   52
Pedro A. Miranda                   1,386 78.0%   58
Lilliana Torreh-Bayout             1,630 76.0%   71
Elisa M. Sukkar                    1,217 73.0%   79
Seymour R. Kleinfeld*                971 70.4%   90
Michael C. Horn                      875 70.1%   93
Stephen E. Mander                  1,470 69.0%   98
Anthony J. Randall*                1,364 62.9%  118
Denise N. Slavin                   1,541 38.9%  204
Sandra S. Coleman*                 1,158 21.8%  235

*Left the bench ** Transferred to Orlando court

Source: The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W)
   TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist How Miami immigration judges rank

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STOP THE ASSEMBLY LINE ON REQUESTS FOR ASYLUM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 497 words


South Florida immigration lawyers who go to court seeking asylum for their
clients have a good idea in advance what the outcome will be. Forget about the
evidence or how it is argued. When it comes to immigration hearings, winning or
losing usually comes down to drawing the right judge.

Last Sunday, after looking at statistics on immigration judges in Miami, Post
reporter John Lantigua revealed that the court has four of the nation's 10
toughest judges and nine of the top 20. Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse at Syracuse University studied roughly 40,000 decisions between
2001 and 2006 and found the 26 Miami judges at both ends of a wide spectrum:
Five rejected asylum applications more than 90 percent of the time; two other
judges usually granted asylums, one 78 percent of the time and another 61
percent. All the cases were assigned randomly.

Common sense dictates that one judge isn't getting nearly all cases that deserve
asylum while another is getting nearly all those that don't. Too many cases are
decided more on the political or philosophical leanings of the judge. Attorneys
complain that judges lack adequate training in immigration law, or knowledge of
life in immigrants' countries of origin. Large caseloads promote assembly-line
rulings.

There is also "compassion fatigue." After hearing the same stories of violence
and despair hundreds of times -- from Haitians and Colombians, in particular --
some judges tend to get desensitized and stop listening. Asylum-seekers don't
have the resources to document their cases, so judges rely almost entirely on
the State Department's report on conditions in the country -- generalizations
that may not apply to the case at hand. Once a judge rules, there is almost no
way to appeal.

Miami, which handles all cases from the Treasure Coast and South Florida, is one
of 54 U.S. immigration courts. It follows a nationwide pattern: Female judges
are more likely to grant asylum, and judges who had worked for the government
are more likely to deny asylum. Overall, Miami had the nation's lowest approval
rate -- 23 percent, compared with the national average of 40 percent. If an
immigrant is fortunate enough to get a hearing at the much smaller court in
Orlando, the chances of getting asylum are double that in Miami.

Justice shouldn't depend on shopping for judges, but with asylum hearings, it
does. "I have an attorney friend who, as soon as a potential client walks into
the office, calls the 800 number in Miami to find out what judge has the case,"
says Marisol Zequeira, an immigration lawyer from Stuart. "If it's the wrong
judge, my friend will tell the client to find another lawyer."

To fix the system, the Miami court needs more judges with more training and less
ideological bias. They need fewer cases to work and more clerks to help evaluate
petitioners' individual circumstances. Until that happens, unfairness will
compromise the intrinsically American principle of asylum for refugees in peril.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ TOUTS MCCAIN'S STANCE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 441 words


Florida Sen. Mel Martinez, seeking to bolster Republican John McCain's efforts
to win Hispanic voters, says McCain has "stood tall" on immigration reform
against his own political interests while Democrat Barack Obama "caved" to
anti-reform forces when the matter was in the U.S. Senate.

Martinez spoke to reporters on a conference call Friday to discuss a new McCain
television spot aimed at Latino voters. The ad is running in three states with
significant numbers of Hispanics: Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico.

The ad isn't running in Florida, but a McCain spokesman said "we'll make
decisions going forward" on whether to air it in the Sunshine State, where about
11 percent of voters are Hispanic.

The 60-second spot features a clip of McCain at a Republican debate in New
Hampshire in June 2007 saying that "you'll find a whole lot of Hispanic names"
among the dead on the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington and "a whole lot of
people who are of Hispanic background" serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"So let's from time to time remember that these are God's children. They must
come into our country legally, but they have enriched our culture and our nation
as every generation of immigrants before them," McCain says in the debate
footage used in the ad.

McCain angered many Republicans by supporting a failed immigration bill that
included a temporary worker program and a path to citizenship for people who are
in the country illegally.

More recently, McCain has emphasized beefing up border security -- drawing
accusations from the Obama campaign that McCain has abandoned his earlier
commitment.

"McCain walked away from comprehensive immigration reform during the GOP primary
campaign and adopted an 'enforcement first' approach favored by the conservative
wing of the Republican Party," an Obama campaign statement repeated Friday.

Martinez said border security was always part of immigration changes, but the
emphasis on it now reflects the fact that "not enough Americans believed that
there was a seriousness of purpose" about security in the original bill.

Martinez said Obama had supported two amendments to limit the temporary worker
program in the original reform measure and these would have been a "poison pill"
to reform.

"When it counted, Senator Obama was not there but was playing to the special
interests," Martinez said. He later said Obama "caved" to unions that opposed
the temporary worker program.

Obama's campaign pointed to a June 2007 letter Martinez wrote to Obama in which
he praised the Illinois Democrat for "standing firm in the face of extreme
pressure" and supporting the immigration bill.

~george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOCAL JUDGE NAMED IN CRONYISM PROBE

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 558 words


A Palm Beach judge has been named by Department of Justice investigators as
having participated in a political cronyism scheme that violated federal laws
dictating the hiring of Immigration Court judges, one of the issues that led to
the resignation of former U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in 2007.

Immigration Court Judge Rex J. Ford, currently hearing cases in Broward County,
is named in the 146-page Justice Department Inspector General report. It says he
and two other judges vetted and recommended candidates for appointment to the
Immigration Court, a process that resulted in only GOP faithful being appointed.

Their recommendations were sent to former Justice Department liaison Monica
Goodling. The report indicates that Goodling and her superior, Justice
Department chief of staff Kyle Sampson, dictated the naming of judges to the
court, bypassing normal administrative review procedures.

As part of the same policy, several U.S. attorneys around the country were fired
by the department for political reasons. That practice led to congressional
hearings and censure by the House Judiciary Committee. As a result of that
scandal, Sampson resigned in March 2007, Goodling two months later and Gonzales
in September.

Ford and the other judges who participated in the vetting escaped misconduct
charges. Reforms of the hiring practices have subsequently been adopted.

The process used in naming Immigration Court judges was not as high profile as
the firings of U.S. attorneys, but it was also part of the illegal politicizing
of the Justice Department, according to congressional critics.

Immigration Court judges, who hear petitions to remain in the U.S. from
immigrants in more than 50 specialized courts around the country, are considered
career Justice Department employees and not political appointees.

"Both (Justice) Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in
hiring for career department positions on the basis of political affiliations,"
investigators said.

The investigators said that in 2006, Ford joined with two other immigration
court judges -- Garry Malphrus and Mark Metcalf -- in recommending to Goodling
six candidates for the court.

Before being named as immigration judges during the Bush administration,
Malphrus had been associate director of the White House Domestic Policy Council,
and Metcalf was a failed GOP congressional candidate from Kentucky.

Both were named immigration judges without being interviewed by the Executive
Office of Immigration Review, which was the traditional procedure.

Ford has been an immigration judge since 1993.

According to the investigators' report, at one point in 2006, Malphrus, in an
e-mail, recommended to Goodling that Ford be considered for the post of chief
immigration judge in Washington. He listed Ford's qualifications as "experience,
leadership skills and loyalty."

"When we interviewed Malphrus he told us 'loyalty' meant loyalty to the Bush
administration," the investigators wrote.

At the same time, all three men denied to investigators that they had made
recommendations for judgeships based on political affiliation.

Ford, reached at a family home in Palm Beach, said he had not seen the report,
which was issued July 28.

He declined comment, explaining that Immigration Court regulations prohibit him
from speaking to the press.

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Rex J. Ford (mug) Immigration Court judge escapes misconduct charges.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

W. PALM FIRM ACCUSED OF FRAUD

BYLINE: By BOB DART Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Three top officials of a nationwide janitorial service based in West Palm Beach
were charged Thursday with tax fraud and employing a workforce of illegal
immigrants in a federal investigation that rounded up more than 200 undocumented
workers.

The federal indictment accuses Rosenbaum-Cunningham International Inc., or RCI,
with knowingly hiring undocumented immigrants and avoiding payment of more than
$18.6 million in federal taxes.

The cleaning business, whose clients include the House of Blues, Hard Rock Cafe,
ESPN Zone, China Grill, Dave & Buster's and other national chains, took in more
than $54.3 million between 2001 and 2005, federal officials said.

RCI's co-owners -- Edward Scott Cunningham, 43, of West Palm Beach and Richard
M. Rosenbaum, 60, of Longwood -- and controller Christina A. Flocken, 59, of
Longwood were charged in a 23-count indictment with conspiracy to defraud the
United States, evading payment of federal employment taxes and harboring illegal
aliens for profit.

Convictions on all charges could lead to 15-year prison sentences for the trio.

In addition, more than 200 undocumented immigrants were apprehended Wednesday
night at 63 RCI job sites around the country, according to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. They have been detained pending deportation procedures.

The deliberate hiring of an undocumented workforce ''was essential to the
success of their scheme,'' the indictment charges. ''Illegal aliens were willing
to be paid in cash, without the creation of payroll records; they could be hired
on the spot, without the creation of any employment records, and could be fired
at will without likely legal recourse; and they were highly unlikely to report
the irregular nature of their employment to any authority.''

The indictment says the defendants deliberately did not collect or pay federal
income withholding taxes, Social Security and Medicare taxes and unemployment
taxes on the wages as required by federal law.

They also were charged with directing a supervisor to obtain 20 fraudulent
Permanent Resident Cards -- so-called green cards -- for their undocumented
workers when a client, a resort in Michigan, inquired about their status.

The supervisor even put in an expense form for the $3,460.43 that the fraudulent
cards cost and received a $1,000 bonus as a reward for obtaining them, the
indictment shows.

The defendants evaded payment of more than $18.6 million in federal employment
taxes and set up shell companies called Ricurt Inc., Sunchaser Service Corp. and
Monker LLC to hide these illegal funds, the indictment said.

''They used the funds to buy luxury boats and vehicles, to purchase lavish homes
in Florida and California, to acquire racehorses and pay for their maintenance
... and generally to support extravagant spending and lifestyle costs,'' the
indictment said.

The case reflects an effort to go after employers who deliberately hire
undocumented workers, said Julie Myers, assistant secretary of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

''Employers who brazenly violate our immigration laws will be held accountable
for their illicit actions,'' she said.

The immigrants came from Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala and Haiti, federal
officials said. RCI would use on-site managers, ''most of whom were illegal
aliens,'' who spoke Spanish and English to ensure that the services were
provided to the clients, the indictment said. ''They also paid the RCI crews in
cash and on a weekly basis.''

Upon conviction, the defendants would be liable for the $54 million obtained as
a result of their illegal activities. They also could be forced to forfeit their
personal property, including a home titled to Cunningham and his wife at Ibis
Golf and Country Club, a gated community off Northlake Boulevard in West Palm
Beach.

bdart@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RULES RAISE FEARS FOR FLA. BUSINESS

BYLINE: By MARILYN GEEWAX Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration's new crackdown on illegal immigration could have a
devastating impact on key industries in Florida, business and legal experts said
Friday.

Forcing companies to fire employees whose Social Security numbers and names
don't match government records may seriously disrupt the state's agricultural,
construction and hospitality industries, they predicted.

"Growers are definitely concerned that they are going to lose their labor
force," said Kevin Morgan, director of agricultural policy for the Florida Farm
Bureau.Forcing companies to fire employees whose Social Security numbers and
names don't match government records may seriously disrupt the state's
agricultural, construction and hospitality industries, Florida experts
predicted.

"Growers are definitely concerned that they are going to lose their labor
force," said Kevin Morgan, director of agricultural policy for the Florida Farm
Bureau.

"In Florida, our primary crops are very labor-intensive crops -- citrus, fruits
and vegetables and nursery products," he said.

He said that means employers often hire large numbers of immigrants, many of
whom may be in the country illegally.

Foreign-born workers make up 23 percent of Florida's civilian workforce, census
figures show, and more than half of those are noncitizens, including many
illegal immigrants.

The top occupations for the foreign-born workers in Florida are educational,
health and social services; construction; and retail trade.

Michael Lucas, who heads the labor and employment practice of the Birmingham,
Ala., office of Burr & Forman LLP, said much of the Southern economy could be
hit hard by the new rules.

While the impact will be felt in the Northeast in places such as restaurants and
golf courses, he said, the South has entire industries that depend heavily on
immigrant labor, such as chicken processing, vegetable growing and hospitality.

"I think you'll see the major impact on small- to medium-sized businesses,"
Lucas said. "There are many businesses that couldn't operate without illegal
immigrants."

Morgan said Congress' failure to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill
has left employers struggling to comply with the law.

"We support using legal workers, but we've got to fix the system," he said. "We
need a workable guest worker program."

Under the rules announced Friday by the Department of Homeland Security,
companies that need employees to pick peppers or process chickens will risk
criminal prosecutions and financial penalties if they employ illegal immigrants.

Employers who receive "no-match" letters that identify discrepancies in a
worker's tax records will need to take action within 90 days.

Such irregularities often suggest the employees may be using a phony Social
Security number to qualify for work.

Currently, companies often ignore no-match letters because of unclear guidelines
about what to do. Indeed, employers who did act on such letters faced the
possibility of discrimination lawsuits from workers.

J. Luis Rodriguez, trade adviser for Lake Worth-based Florida Farmers Inc., said
Florida farmers and growers check prospective employees' Social Security cards
and submit the numbers to the government for verification. Often, by the time a
no-match letter is received, the employee will have moved on, he said.

"The bottom line is, we are not the police," Rodriguez said. "They need to
create a foolproof ID system that you can scan immediately."

Some business owners said even some U.S. citizens could become unemployable
because of mix-ups in their Social Security records.

"We're not looking to punish people for honest mistakes, clerical errors, you
know, or imperfections in process," Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
said.

Staff writer Susan Salisbury contributed to this story.

~ mgeewax@coxnews.com

Florida's foreign-born workers

Share of civilian employees who are foreign-born: 23 percent (ranks fourth
nationally)

Growth of foreign-born workers since 2000: 36.5 percent (ranks 22nd nationally)

Percent of foreign-born workers who are noncitizens: 55.9

Top occupations of foreign-born workers (percent): Educational services, health
care and social assistance 16.4; construction 13.2; retail trade 11.4.

Where foreign-born workers are from (percent): Latin America 76.9, Asia 9.6,
Europe 9.2, North America 2.6, Africa 1.6, Oceania 0.1.

Source: Migration Policy Institute, from the Census Bureau's 2005 American
Community Survey

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNDERDOG TANCREDO BARKS FIERCELY ABOUT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1345 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Tom Tancredo likes a good fight.

The Colorado Republican, who is seeking the Republican nomination for president,
has managed to upset a variety of powerful people, including former Florida Gov.
Jeb Bush, New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, GOP strategist Karl Rove and just
about every Hispanic advocacy group in Washington.

The source of the conflicts: Tancredo's unyielding battle against illegal
immigration and what he calls the "cult of multiculturalism."

A hero of the working man to some and a dangerous xenophobe to others, Tancredo
has taken his tough talk on the political road in an underdog campaign that has
pushed GOP White House contenders to talk more about illegal immigration.

He pulls no punches when it comes to his signature issue.

"You have a massive legal and illegal immigration of a great many people who
don't want to be Americans," he said in an interview this year. "It's dangerous.
We could end up with a cultural, linguistic and even political Tower of Babel."

Republican from young age

Tancredo, 61, grew up in a Denver suburb without any memorable exposure to
illegal immigration. A Republican from a young age, he recalls being one of two
students in his Roman Catholic high school who voted in a mock election against
then-Sen. John F. Kennedy, who would become the first Catholic U.S. president.

Tancredo worked throughout high school and college at an amusement park in
Denver, where he started sweeping floors and eventually became the park's
general manager.

He graduated from the University of Northern Colorado and became a junior high
school civics teacher.

Tancredo said his concern about illegal immigration and "the cult of
multiculturalism" began when Colorado implemented bilingual education, which
puts Spanish-speaking students into separate classes.

Students with Hispanic surnames who didn't even speak Spanish were put into the
classes, which was ridiculous and harmful, Tancredo said.

He later ran for a state House seat and won, but he lost in his efforts to
abolish the bilingual education program. He was elected to the U.S. Congress in
1998.

He has been married to his wife, Jackie, for 30 years. They met as teachers at
Drake Junior High in Arvada, Colo., where Jackie taught French. They have two
sons and five grandchildren. Large poster-size portraits of the grandkids adorn
Tancredo's congressional office.

As the immigration issue began to heat up in the past few years, so did
Tancredo's celebrity. He has become a frequent guest on conservative talk radio
shows and appears often on television.

Bill Salier, who is running Tancredo's Iowa operation, said he was drawn to the
lawmaker because Tancredo is a true conservative with a strong stance against
abortion and in favor of abolishing the U.S. tax code, greater border security
and assimilating immigrants.

"To change our culture to match others who want to come here is clearly not
what's going to maintain the greatness of America," said Salier, who once ran
for the U.S. Senate.

'Uglier side of the party'

Supporters also point to Tancredo's softer side. He organized the gathering of
food and medical supplies to help after a school hostage crisis in Beslan,
Russia. Tancredo delivered them in person, along with letters of encouragement
and sympathy from students at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., where
two students had slain several a few years earlier.

Tancredo also has worked with legislators from both sides of the aisle to raise
awareness and pass legislation to end genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan.

But his stance on immigration has upset many, who call him a dangerous force in
Congress and part of an extremist, nativist wing of the Republican Party that is
hostile to Hispanics and other minorities.

"His presence in the race will continue to signal to Latinos that Republicans
are really very divided on whether we are good for this country," said Cecilia
Munoz, policy vice president at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights organization. "He really reflects an uglier side of the party."

Together with other like-minded talk-show hosts, politicians and pundits,
Tancredo is "part of a dialogue which is giving aid and comfort to hate groups
in this country," Munoz said.

Tancredo, a grandson of Italian immigrants, denies charges of racism and
xenophobia. He said he feels compassion for illegal immigrants but greater
compassion for displaced American workers who are suffering because of the
government's failure to stop illegal intruders.

He announced last month that he is retiring from Congress after five terms,
saying his task of making illegal immigration a national issue was complete. He
has not ruled out a Senate run against incumbent Ken Salazar, a Democrat who
supported an immigration overhaul that would have given many illegal immigrants
a path to citizenship.

Steffen Schmidt, a political science professor at Iowa State University, said
Tancredo's focus on illegal immigration has helped elevate the issue in the
presidential campaign but has not propelled the congressman forward in the
standings.

"You can't be a single-issue candidate on an issue that isn't the number one
concern," Schmidt said.

He allowed that Tancredo could do well in western Iowa, where GOP Rep. Steve
King, an ardent critic of illegal immigration, was reelected last year with 59
percent of the vote. However, the area has a relatively low population.

Will Adams, Tancredo's former press secretary, told the Rocky Mountain News last
year that the congressman's strategy in politics is "whatever he decides at that
moment."

"He shoots from the hip. ... The key to the strategy is to get a big fish to
respond," Adams said.

Tancredo's fight with Jeb Bush began when Tancredo likened Miami to a Third
World country. It prompted an angry exchange in letters and statements with the
former Florida governor, who eventually called Tancredo "a nut."

Previously, Tancredo rankled Richardson after he accused the New Mexico governor
of using federal emergency money to keep tabs on the Minutemen citizen border
patrol group. In a response letter, Richardson said people were growing tired of
Tancredo's "blustering." Richardson, a Democrat, also is running for president.

'What have I got to lose?'

Tancredo also said Rove called him to complain after Tancredo said in a
newspaper story that the Bush administration would have blood on its hands if a
terrorist crossed the nation's porous southern border and attacked the United
States.

The high-profile arguments are a positive thing, Tancredo said.

"It's a great way for us to really get this issue in front of people," the
Coloradan said.

He also has made headlines on other issues. In 1995, he said on a Florida talk
show that the United States could threaten to "take out" Islamic holy sites,
including Mecca, if Muslim fundamentalists wage a nuclear attack on America.

His comment was skewered in editorials across the country and in some foreign
nations and was denounced by the U.S. State Department as "insulting and
offensive."

Tancredo later released a clarification that said he did not advocate bombing
Mecca and that "much more thought would need to be given to the potential
ramifications of such a horrific response."

He also upset minority members of Congress this year by advocating an end to the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Black Caucus, which he said
are "race-based" organizations that amount to segregation.

Tancredo makes no apologies for his statements and says he does not worry about
upsetting powerful people.

"What have I got to lose? Will they take away my fabulous committee
chairmanships?" he asked with a laugh.

Tancredo lacks any high-profile congressional posts. However, he did chair an
unofficial caucus pushing for more immigration enforcement.

Rep. Brian Bilbray, a California Republican who succeeded Tancredo in that post,
said Tancredo was instrumental in making illegal immigration a top issue in
Congress.

"He shocked Washington into paying attention. He rattled their cages, and that's
what it takes," Bilbray said.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. ELECTION 2008 Editor's note This is one in a series of
presidential candidate profiles that will run in Sunday editions of The Palm
Beach Post leading to the Jan. 29 Florida primary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Tom Tancredo (mug) 2. JIM COLE/Associated Press file photo U.S. Rep. Tom
Tancredo, R-Colo., (right) talks tough about illegal immigration in his bid for
the presidency. He once likened Miami to a Third World country, prompting an
angry series of exchanges with former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, who eventually
called Tancredo 'a nut.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEPORT ALL THE ILLEGALS? LOOK AT CASE OF JUST ONE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 508 words


The best estimate is that about 3 million children in the United States are
U.S.-born citizens whose parents are illegal immigrants.

Birthright citizenship is a right defined in the 14th Amendment and derived from
English common law, which linked people to the soil upon which they entered the
world. In the 19th century, the U.S. used the principle to help populate
frontier expansion. Today, with the population of illegals estimated at 12
million and growing, birthright citizenship complicates the government's already
dysfunctional approach to determining who should be in the country.

The case of Marie Michou Daniel, a Haitian mother from West Palm Beach whose
story appeared Sunday in The Post, has been replicated thousands of times across
the nation. Ms. Daniel entered nine years ago with a fraudulent passport.
Immigration agents arrested her at Miami International Airport but released her
while the government prepared an asylum hearing. Ms. Daniel said she feared for
her life if she returned to Haiti. She obtained a work permit and got a job as a
certified nursing assistant. The government denied her asylum request in 1999
and then her appeal, but she decided to remain here.

In January, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement caught up with Ms. Daniel,
arrested her again and deported her to Haiti. But during her nine years here,
she had given birth to three children - each of them U.S. citizens, with full
legal status, whom the government cannot deport. The children are living with
their grandmother, who tells them that their mother is in the hospital. Ms.
Daniel cannot request legal entry for 10 years, and her prospects are dubious.
Birthright children of illegal immigrants often are called "anchor babies"
because their status can help bring foreign relatives here. That power, however,
is limited. Children have to be 21 before they can assist family members.

Separated families are a recurring outcome of this year's politically motivated
crackdown against illegal immigrants. After failing to gain support from
Republican lawmakers for comprehensive reform, the Bush administration has
pushed enforcement to appear tough on illegals and create at least the illusion
of a coherent plan. But the unintended consequences of separating families are
costly in many ways. Who will feed Ms. Daniel's three kids? Who will provide
their health care, get them through school and keep them out of trouble? With
the mother gone, the U.S. taxpayer will take on much of the burden.

Enforcement hard-liners who seek the mass deportation of 12 million people
should consider the difficulties in deporting one woman. They also should
consider the absurd paradoxes in U.S. policy. If Ms. Daniel had come from Cuba,
the government would have welcomed her. Instead, she came from a country that is
more violent, dangerous and economically depressed, but she cannot get asylum.

Comprehensive immigration reform would protect the borders, satisfy the nation's
labor needs and treat all people fairly. A little common sense wouldn't hurt,
either.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TREAT THESE NEWBORNS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 379 words


Denying children health care will not solve America's problem with illegal
immigration or Medicaid fraud. But tucked into the Deficit Reduction Act that
the president signed in February are new Medicaid documentation rules that aim
at illegal immigrants and snare American newborns.

The new federal policy, which took effect in July and is gaining notice and
enforcement, requires a Medicaid application to be filed for a child and for
parents to prove the child's citizenship before Medicaid will pay for any
services. Medicaid officials have said the rules were tightened because of fear
that illegal immigrants were faking U.S. citizenship to gain Medicaid benefits.
In the past, under a 1984 law, a child born to a woman who received emergency
care under Medicaid for childbirth automatically was eligible for coverage,
which continued for the first year of life.

The new policy will create especially perilous conditions for newborns, who
require medical care immediately and repeatedly until their first birthday.
Birth certificates can take weeks to obtain, and Medicaid documentation can take
days or months to process. The risk is that children born to illegal immigrants
will go without immunizations and other preventive efforts, because their
parents are too afraid their contact with a government agency will result in
deportation.

Some of the estimated 46.6 million uninsured Americans might feel little
sympathy, having had to forgo needed care themselves. But not only does the
policy burden children who, despite their parents' status, are born U.S.
citizens, it ultimately will cost the public more.

As emergency-room staffs can attest, patients who cannot afford treatment often
delay medical care until an emergency forces them to the hospital. Or, uninsured
patients rely on emergency rooms for non-life-threatening care given cheaper and
quicker at a doctor's office or clinic. That means higher costs for the insured
and for taxpayers.

Medicaid pays for more than a third of about 4 million babies born in the U.S.
each year. How many are illegal immigrants? No one can be certain. But everyone
knows, without a doubt, that every newborn needs medical care. The federal
government should not make health care harder for its own -- newest -- citizens
to receive.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLUB MED TAKES ILLEGALS FOR A RIDE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 660 words


Club Med has an advertising budget roughly equal to NASA's maintenance bill, so
you're probably familiar with the company's promotional imagery.

White, sandy beaches. Beautiful people walking in the surf. Massages and mud
packs in the spa. Perhaps a little tennis before some wine and a candlelight
dinner.

Nice, huh? How about this one:

Van loads of illegal immigrants, all uniformed Club Med employees, rolling into
the resort each day to wash the dishes, tidy up the grounds, wipe the margaritas
off the pool deck and deliver turn-down service whenever it's requested.

Two weeks ago, federal agents stopped a van filled with 15 of Club Med
Sandpiper's employees who were on their way to work at the Port St. Lucie
resort. All were illegal immigrants, and most of them were from Mexico or
Central America. Agents arrested the men and scheduled them for deportation
hearings.

Now, here's the really beautiful thing if you're Club Med. You don't have to
take any responsibility at all for hiring illegal immigrants or, for that
matter, making handsome returns on their hard work for low wages. You don't even
have to pay what you owe them, now that they've been arrested.

Club Med Sandpiper had the good sense to hire a subcontractor to recruit the
workers and deliver them each day, so the managers of the resort can profess
astonishment over their employees' illegal status and wash their hands of
liability.

It's the same scam Florida farmers have used for decades: Let middle men bring
in the illegal labor. Then, when something goes wrong, it's a problem for the
middle men, not you.

Dozens of migrant workers have died in rollover van wrecks while traveling to
and from farm fields, and the growers who benefited from their labor didn't even
get stuck with a bill for the caskets. Forget about workers compensation
coverage or even seat belts in the vans.

Only in recent years has the Florida Legislature passed laws to monitor
subcontractors and their vehicles, and the agriculture industry as a whole taken
some steps to improve transportation safety.

The drivers who bring farm workers to the fields are called raiteros, a
bastardization of the word ride. What to call the Club Med's subcontractors?
Clubmediteros? Resorteros?

The government has released a criminal complaint against a Polish woman,
Magdalena Grabowiecka, 32, who is charged with driving the 15 men to Club Med.
According to the complaint, she is employed by JAD Consulting Inc., the
subcontractor that has hired workers for the resort. Federal immigration
officials say JAD also has hired workers for Dunkin' Donut shops on the Treasure
Coast.

The workers paid the subcontractor a fee for getting them jobs, then paid them
again for the ride to work. Club Med presumably paid JAD for maintaining a
steady stream of cheap labor, but the terms of the arrangement remain nebulous.
The company refuses to comment on the arrests, its contract or its hiring
policies in general.

This is out of character for Club Med, which runs employee recruitment tours
around the country and promotes its career opportunities throughout the world
with photos of beautiful young receptionists, masseuses, chefs and sailing
instructors.

Where are the promotional photos of all the beautiful young dishwashers,
janitors and hedge-cutters from Latin America? Where are the advertisements
offering employment opportunities for resorteros?

Don't ask about severance packages. Several of the immigrants awaiting
deportation say Club Med owes them money and won't cut them paychecks. The
company isn't talking about that, either.

Hypocrisy permeates the nation's immigration problems, and some of the worst
examples of it are found in businesses that profit from illegal labor yet
insulate themselves from culpability and portray themselves as unwitting
participants. Club Med shouldn't resort to such disingenuous behavior.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFF TRACK ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 469 words


Border control has become so politicized in Washington that Americans could be
forgiven for believing that only the United States has waves of illegal
immigrants coming from the south. In fact, so does Mexico.

Last year, Mexican authorities deported 232,157 illegal migrants, and most of
them were Central Americans who had crossed the country's loosely guarded
borders with Guatemala and Belize. Nearly all of them intended to make it to the
United States, and many eventually do. According to U.S. immigration officials,
the number of illegal Central American migrants in this country has increased 56
percent to 1.4 million over the past six years.

These are some of the poorest people in the hemisphere, and their desperation is
reflected in the extraordinary risks they are willing to take to get here. Palm
Beach Post reporter Christine Evans and photographer Gary Coronado documented
some of those risks in last week's special section on the growing numbers of
Central American migrants who jump aboard freight trains and ride them hundreds
of miles north toward the U.S. border.

Train jumpers are growing in desperation as well as numbers because of
deteriorating economic and security conditions in their homelands. Even
advocates of free trade acknowledged that there would be winners and losers as
global markets opened; the idea was to identify the losers and provide them
safety nets.

That isn't happening enough in Central America, where competition from the
outside is creating economic refugees who see leaving as their only option. U.S.
Homeland Security is seeing an alarming increase in gang activity in El
Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. More refugees are fleeing the violence of
drug-running international gangs such as Mara Salvatrucha (MS-18) and the
Mexican mafia, some of whose members have turned up in Palm Beach County and the
Treasure Coast. Asylum requests because of gang violence have doubled over the
past three years.

The terrible toll of train jumping is evident in the hundreds of mutilations and
deaths to migrants who fell beneath the wheels. Olga Sanchez, the "Angel of the
Tracks," runs a shelter in southern Mexico and estimates that she has helped at
least 2,000 amputees. Bandits also claim hundreds of victims along the railways
each year. Consumed by Iraq, the Bush administration maintains a Castro-centric
foreign policy in the hemisphere and appears not to have noticed the widening
economic depression that has given rise to leftist regimes in Bolivia and
Nicaragua, not just Venezuela.

Congress wants to spend billions to run a fence across the U.S.-Mexico border,
but spending to keep illegal immigrants home would be more effective. Economic
development can relieve the desperation that makes people leave their families,
jump trains and, literally, risk life and limb.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POPULATION EXPLOSION DRIVES ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 177 words


One cannot help but to have compassion for the Guatemalans and other Central
Americans who risk all to come to the United States illegally to sustain
themselves and their families ("Riding for their lives," Nov. 12). But the
United States no longer needs large pools of unskilled labor. The labor that
illegal immigrants provide is not cheap. Taxpayers are hit for their social,
educational and medical costs.

The underlying reason for this immigration wave is the failure of their home
countries to provide ample employment. The long-term remedy cannot be the
continued flood to the U.S. of illegal immigrants or the increased purchase of
coffee beans ("The coffee connection," Dec. 10).

Countries south of the border must take responsibility for their unsustainable
population growth. Localities such as Jupiter must not encourage more to break
our immigration laws. Our government must secure our borders and encourage the
education and empowerment of women in these countries. Women's empowerment leads
to sustainable populations.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK PROVOKED BY... THE POST

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HAVE RIGHT TO WORK; USE IRELAND'S MODEL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 157 words


Columnist Ruben Navarrette ("Romney wobbly on illegal immigration," Jan. 8)
ponders whether former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney "gets it" about
immigration. But Mr. Navarrette himself fails to get the big picture.

There is a moral as well as a legal dimension to immigration. When on Spaceship
Earth, a lack of jobs for earning one`s daily bread exists in one section, and
there is a need for workers in another, those needing work have a moral right of
transfer to the place of employment, a right which transcends other
considerations. Our problem is that the system we have in place is woefully
inadequate for its task.

Ireland has had a similar but proportionally five times greater problem and has
successfully processed all immigrant workers properly. It can be done. Present
an adequate system and there would be no need for the spectacle of a border
fence and such extensive and expensive border patrolling.

CONNELL J. MAGUIRE

Riviera Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLISH DUO ADMIT GUILT IN AIDING ILLEGALS

BYLINE: By ALLYSON BIRD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 271 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Two Polish citizens politely pleaded guilty in federal court Tuesday morning to
helping illegal immigrants work in Martin and St. Lucie counties.

Jan Dziarski, dressed in a dark-blue jail jumpsuit, answered each of the judge's
questions with a heavy accent, saying, "I understand fully, your honor." The
52-year-old man got the immigrants hired at Treasure Coast businesses including
Club Med Sandpiper and Dunkin' Donuts.

Magdalena Grabowiecka, dressed in a tan jail jumpsuit, told the judge through a
translator, "I agree to guilt and I am very sorry about that." The 32-year-old
woman, believed to be Dziarski's lover, drove the immigrants to their jobs.

Prosecutor Diana Acosta said Dziarski, who is a Canadian citizen, helped illegal
immigrants get hired and provided them with housing and transportation. In
exchange, he took part of their paychecks, Acosta said.

She said Dziarski typically left his home in Stuart and took Martin County
immigrants to Club Med Sandpiper in Port St. Lucie. Then he picked up more
workers in Fort Pierce and took them to Club Med.

He'd drive them all home at the end of the day, Acosta said.

Grabowiecka, described as a driver for Dziarski, had a van full of illegal
workers when she was arrested. Had the case gone to trial, Acosta said, one
worker would have testified that Grabowiecka spoke Spanish when recruiting her
and a friend outside an employment agency.

Dziarski and Grabowiecka each face up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
They will be sentenced in April.

The two also could be deported because, like the other immigrants, they were
working illegally.

- allyson_bird@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer Jan Dziarski, leaving the U.S. Courthouse in
Fort Pierce Tuesday, admitted getting illegal immigrants hired at Treasure Coast
businesses. Magdalena Grabowiecka (behind him) was arrested with a van full of
illegals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ROMNEY GIVES NOD TO MORE TROOPS IN IRAQ, ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SOURCES

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: LADY LAKE


Mitt Romney charmed more than 800 residents of The Villages retirement community
Friday night, receiving a standing ovation as a rebuke to a lone heckler.

The former Massachusetts governor made his first campaign trip to Florida as a
Republican presidential candidate, touring the Disney-like community of more
than 50,000 retirees.

In a packed recreation center, Romney and his wife, Ann, spoke to an
enthusiastic crowd about the Iraq war, illegal immigration, dependence on
foreign oil and other issues.

Saying "mistakes were made" in preparing for the turmoil in Iraq, Romney said
the U.S. "is partially responsible for the circumstances we find ourselves in."

Nonetheless, Romney said he supports President Bush's plan to send more troops
to Iraq.

"We are going to know in a matter of months whether it is working or not," he
said. "At this stage, I support the president. He is the commander in chief, and
I think he is on the right course."

Romney, 59, also called for a "tamper-proof, biometric" identification card as a
requirement for legal immigrants to work in this country. He said employers
would be forbidden from hiring anyone without such a card.

The ID card, combined with tougher border security, would help stem the flow of
undocumented immigrants, Romney said.

Calling for less dependence on foreign oil, Romney said he wants increased use
of domestic coal, more alternative energy sources and additional drilling off
the Continental Shelf.

He said that if Cuba plans offshore drilling, the United States also should get
oil from those waters. But Romney said he would not support drilling that would
harm tourism.

A man who described himself as a retired Illinois police officer stood up and
gave a long, rambling statement about his love for America, then shouted at
Romney: "You, sir, are a pretender. You do not know the Lord. You are a Mormon."

Romney's religious beliefs are an issue for some Christian conservatives, but
the crowd shouted down the man, then rose to its feet in applause. He thanked
the audience and said that Americans want people of faith as their leaders.

Romney will meet privately with religious leaders attending the National
Religious Broadcasters convention in Orlando today in an effort to win their
support. Arizona Sen. John McCain also is expected to meet with them. The third
leading GOP candidate for president, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, is not
attending the event.

~ brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 GEORGE HORSFORD/The Associated Press Mitt Romney, speaking Friday to retirees
in The Villages, was heckled for his Mormon beliefs. He will meet today with
religious leaders.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN'S BUSINESS WOULD'VE KEPT IMMIGRANTS HOME

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 126 words


I also feel for Pedro Zapeta, the dishwasher who had $49,000 taken by our court
system due to his lack of understanding of our laws ("Dishwasher gets cleaned,"
Jan. 31). There is another issue here that needs exploring: Mr. Zapeta was
leaving the United States to return to his country. He intended to start a
business there that probably would have employed others and kept them from
attempting to come to the U.S. illegally.

Many are upset over illegal immigration and wish that there were an answer.
Creating jobs in other countries is the answer. A fence at our borders won't
stop immigrants as much as money-making jobs in one's home country. Remember,
the "illegals" would prefer to stay in their home country if they had work
there.

JAMES HAMLIN

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 26, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'VOTER FRAUD' A PHONY GOP SCARE TACTIC

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 746 words


There they go again. Seeking a seat in Congress, a Georgia GOP legislator is
raising the specter of phony voters: illegal immigrants sneaking into the voting
booth to cast a ballot.

In a letter to potential contributors, state Sen. Jim Whitehead wrote, "An
illegal immigrant should no more be voting in our elections in Georgia than you
or I should be voting in Mexico. That's just wrong!" according to Atlanta
Journal-Constitution reporters Jim Galloway and Tom Baxter.

Mr. Whitehead didn't give any examples of voting by illegal immigrants because
he can't cite any. Said Thomas Patterson, an expert on elections at Harvard's
Shorenstein Center: "If you are an illegal immigrant, the last thing you want to
do is show up at a polling place. ... The idea that people are going to stick
their necks out and get (a) penalty stretches the imagination."

But an epidemic of fraudulent voters has become a favorite fairy tale of the
Republican Party, a made-up monster they've planted under voters' beds to scare
us into endorsing voter ID laws. They invent stories about people stealing
driver licenses or passports so they can illegally sneak into the ballot booth.
GOP leaders have intimidated voters of color, unfairly purged voter rolls and
set up unconstitutional barriers to the ballot box -- all in the name of
cleaning up "voter fraud."

This unfortunate campaign has further eroded the GOP's credibility among voters
of color, who see this for what it is: an effort to block black and brown
voters, who tend to support Democrats, from the ballot box. And it may prove
more costly still to the Republican Party. The obsession with so-called voter
fraud helped fuel the dismissal of federal prosecutors -- an ugly purge that has
set up the possibility of a constitutional crisis.

There is not yet a detailed picture of the decision-making or motives that led
to the dismissals of several federal prosecutors. But this much is clear:
Republican operatives were unhappy over the failure of some U.S. attorneys to
bring indictments over alleged voter fraud by Democrats. GOP regulars simply
wouldn't believe that prosecutors didn't pursue indictments because there was no
evidence to support the allegations.

David Iglesias was the highly regarded U.S. attorney based in Albuquerque,
recommended for the job by Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M. But Mr. Iglesias, a
Republican, soon drew the wrath of Sen. Domenici, among others.

High-ranking Republicans in New Mexico were unhappy because Mr. Iglesias was not
advancing a corruption case involving a Democrat on the GOP's timetable --
before the 2004 elections. Equally suspicious, in their view, Mr. Iglesias
declined to bring indictments in a separate case involving faulty voter
registrations by a Democratic-leaning group.

Complaints that Mr. Iglesias was not aggressive in pursuing voter fraud were
relayed to President Bush, who forwarded those complaints to Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales. Soon, Mr. Iglesias, who had excellent job evaluations, was
asked to resign.

Mr. Iglesias noted in a March 21 newspaper column that, as one of two U.S.
attorneys who set up task forces on voter fraud in 2004, he was considered an
expert. But, he wrote: "What the critics, who don't have any experience as
prosecutors, have asserted is reprehensible -- namely that I should have
proceeded without having proof beyond a reasonable doubt. The public has a right
to believe that prosecution decisions are made on legal, not political,
grounds."

This ugly episode is unlikely to dim the GOP's enthusiasm for pursuing imaginary
fake voters (or for turning away real ones). The crusade doesn't ferret out
phony citizens trying to cast a ballot; they're virtually nonexistent. But it
does work to suppress turnout among voters of color.

According to a recent study prepared for the federal Election Assistance
Commission, states with restrictive voter ID requirements saw turnout at the
polls fall by about 3 percent in the 2004 presidential election -- and by two to
three times as much for minorities.

It's no coincidence that poorer minority voters also tend to cast their ballots
for Democrats. In close races, 3 percent makes a difference.

It's ugly and un-American, but that's the GOP playbook. And their operatives got
pretty mad at David Iglesias when he placed integrity and constitutional
principles above politicized prosecutions.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 13, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RADIO HOST TURNS BORDER COP OVERNIGHT

BYLINE: Jose Lambiet's

SECTION: A SECTION; PAGE TWO; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1102 words


Rarely in her 15 years on SoFla radio has something Joyce Kaufman said on the
air struck this type of a raw nerve.

And it wasn't even a Don Imus-style joke.

Last month, the WFTL-AM 850 afternoon talker said she canceled her Comcast
service when she called for assistance and was told: "For English, press 1."

Within minutes, the six-day-a-week call-in show shifted to talk on immigration
control -- a topic she hasn't dropped since.

Kaufman advocates "making it so miserable for illegals to be here that they'd
leave on their own" -- and her show's profile shot up overnight in radio
territory that stretches from Vero Beach to the Keys.

When she mentioned she'd be traveling to Washington on April 22 for a protest
demanding immigration control, she told callers who wished they could go to the
"Hold Their Feet to the Fire" rally that she'd take with her the signed soles of
their old shoes.

She says she has collected nearly 1,500 pairs so far, some bearing messages like
"Why Press 1 For English?" and "Please Don't Make Me Speak Spanish." A smelly
pile now fills the station's conference room in Fort Lauderdale.

"People are angry," Kaufman says. "Illegal immigration affects everyone, from
overcrowded schools to job loss.

"I don't want this place to look like a banana republic with chickens and
roosters running loose on the streets. It's not Calle Ocho. It's Eighth Street."

Kaufman isn't any run-of-the-mill anti-immigration nut. She's Puerto Rican. She
speaks Spanish, eats Latin foods and is partial to salsa. And she describes
herself as a liberal with traditional values, a "tree hugger" who sees
immigration from an environmental angle. More residents here mean more
pollution, she says.

Kaufman hasn't been alone in using immigration to get attention. CNN's Lou Dobbs
and nationally syndicated radio-talker Michael Savage have been on that kick for
months. Kaufman, however, is doing it on the local level, in a Latin-heavy
region.

"I didn't create the firestorm," she said. "I just tapped into it."

Not good, says Angelina Castro at the Fort Pierce office of the Florida
Immigration Advocacy Center.

"No doubt people are suffering," Castro said, "because of the economy and the
war. When that happens, they lay blame on society's weakest, immigrants. Ms.
Kaufman doesn't understand the complexities of immigration."

Full disclosure: As Page Two columnist, I'm featured every Wednesday on WFTL's
morning show with Kelly Mitchell and Russ Morley, but I've never appeared on
Kaufman's show.

STARS IN OUR EYES

The area's celebrity meter is spiking.

The 12th annual Palm Beach International Film Festival kicks off April 19. And
after hitting a rough patch with demanding celebrities -- including a run-in
with Chinatown's Faye Dunaway, who ditched a premiere last year when her
reported demand for $50,000 was refused -- festival officials say they're
bringing in several showbiz staples who save their drama for the big screen.

"It's been quiet so far," festival spokeswoman Terri Neil said. "Everybody's
been a real pro."

The iconic star of 1970s classics A Clockwork Orange and Caligula recently seen
in HBO's Entourage and NBC's Heroes, Malcolm McDowell is traveling to Boca to
push his new thriller, The List, along with costar Hilarie Burton, from the CW's
young-adult fare One Tree Hill. McDowell even committed to staying through the
weekend.

Dylan McDermott (TV's The Practice), actor-director Peter Bogdanovich (Paper
Moon, The Last Picture Show) and A Bronx Tale's Chazz Palminteri will be spotted
on diverse red carpets as well.

More than 120 films are scheduled to be shown at Sunrise Cinema in Boca's Mizner
Park, the Muvico Parisian at CityPlace and two new venues: the Maltz in Jupiter
and The Theatre, a WPB church turned into a small art house by former Carefree
owner Jon Stoll.

Wellington, meanwhile, will get its influx of famous faces at the April 21
Laureus Celebrity Polo Challenge, where retired Olympian Edwin Moses and tennis
champ Monica Seles will swing mallets at International Polo Palm Beach. I'm told
the organization just talked singer-actress Hilary Duff (A Cinderella Story,
Lizzie McGuire) into making an appearance.

Finally, Disney Channel stars Dylan and Cole Sprouse, of the The Suite Life of
Zack and Cody, have signed to return later this year to the film studios at the
charter school G-Star in WPB to film their second Mark Twain-inspired flick.
This one's about Tom Sawyer.

THE LOWDOWN ...

... No wonder New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick has been spending time
in the Jupiter area. The Boston media are abuzz with news that the freshly
divorced Belichick is dating Tequesta cosmetics-business owner Linda Holliday,
43, who has two children. ... TV sports commentator Bryant Gumbel ventured a
ways from his Jupiter home for dinner at BOVA in Boca last week, with Live with
Regis and Kelly producer Michael Gelman. I'm told Gumbel liked the pollo
scarpiello so much that he later e-mailed a request for chef Peter Masiello's
recipe. ... Fighting in court after a DUI arrest: Palm Beach Policeman's Ball
coordinator Afif Makboul. The 61-year-old was nabbed by West Palm PD last year
even after he flashed a Fraternal Order of Police card, according to records.
Makboul's lawyer claims it was an illegal stop and they're awaiting a jury trial
...

REPUBLICAN RHUBARB

It's open season on high-profile GOP operative Jack Furnari.

Furnari -- who usually works behind the scenes of contested elections and was
once considered a future top Republican leader -- is the subject of a Delray
police report after Republican campaign worker Jacqueline D'Heere complained she
felt threatened by Furnari during an April 1 phone conversation.

The news comes in the wake of a report that Furnari owes the state of New York
more than half a million in back taxes.

"I guess this goes with the territory," Furnari said.

Page Two is told Furnari's wife received a picture of a young woman with a rude,
anonymous note alleging that the woman and Furnari are involved. Furnari is
widely known to be faithful to his wife.

But he got ticked off.

In a phone call with D'Heere, he accused her of sending the photo and allegedly
told her he'd "get her."

Although it doesn't accuse Furnari of vandalism, the report mentions that
D'Heere wanted the call documented because tires have been slashed and windows
broken on the cars of several political consultants.

"He's been aggressive toward me before, but never like this," D'Heere said of
the call.

Want the scoop on local newsmakers?

Watch this space every Sunday, Wednesday and Friday.

Got a news tip? Call Jose at (561) 820-4725 or e-mail jose_lambiet@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (6 B&W)
 1. Joyce Kaufman (mug) 2. Hilarie Burton (mug) 3. Bill Bilichick (mug) 4.
Bryant Gumbel (mug) 5. Malcolm McDowell (mug) 6. Hilary Duff (Mug)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 20, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD NABS BOAT SUSPECTED OF CARRYING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROCHELLE E.B. GILKEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 257 words


The U.S. Coast Guard intercepted a boat reported to be carrying more than two
dozen immigrants off the coast of Lake Worth on Wednesday morning.

However, Coast Guard officials would not reveal how many people were taken into
custody, where they are from, or what happened to them.

"We had an interdiction at sea. Government policy says we can't discuss
details," said U.S. Coast Guard Lt. Chris O'Neil, a public information officer
in Miami.

O'Neil said the operation is part of a law enforcement investigation and the
State Department forbids revealing any details -- including where it happened or
what time.

The boat was in American waters about 10 miles off Lake Worth, according to the
U.S. Border Patrol.

O'Neil said the Coast Guard discloses details if a boat carrying immigrants
lands on shore, but not if it is caught at sea. The agency will reveal what
happened only after the case is closed.

In general, the process usually lasts a few days. The Coast Guard puts the
passengers aboard another boat or cutter and gives them food and water. They
remain on the boat and are brought to land only if they require urgent medical
care, O'Neil said.

The immigrants are processed and some get asylum hearings, but most stay on the
boat until they are brought back to the country they came from.

According to U.S. Coast Guard's statistics, 7,886 immigrants were picked up
before making it to shore in 2006.

As of Monday, 2,288 immigrants were interdicted this year. The majority are from
the Dominican Republic, Cuba and Haiti.

~ rochelle_gilken@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER PLAN NEEDS ID CLAUSE, GIULIANI SAYS

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO


Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani said Friday he will not support
any legislation making it easier for illegal immigrants to stay in the United
States without a requirement that all immigrants carry "tamper-proof"
identification cards.

"We need to know everybody who is in the United States," the former New York
mayor said in a speech to about 200 business professionals in downtown Orlando.

Compromise legislation in the U.S. Senate, which provides ways for illegal
immigrants to become documented workers and eventually citizens, should not be
considered unless there is a requirement for a secure ID card, Giuliani said.

Senate Republicans and Democrats unveiled a proposal Thursday that calls for
secure borders to prevent illegal immigration. For the 12 million undocumented
workers already in this country, it would allow them to pay a $5,000 fine as
part of a requirement to obtain legal residency.

The plan also requires a head of household to return to his or her home country
before applying for legal status.

Giuliani, New York's mayor during the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said the
legislation also should include a national database to track immigrants.

"The focus has to be on the security of the United States," he said.

Giuliani's tough stand on immigration plays to what he considers one of his
major strengths as a presidential candidate: fighting terrorism. He told the
audience he also favors keeping the Patriot Act, increasing electronic
surveillance and allowing tough interrogation techniques to ferret out
terrorists.

Giuliani's speech followed a fund-raiser in Jacksonville. He expects to spend a
lot of time in Florida, especially now that the legislature has passed a bill
moving up the state's presidential primary to Jan. 29.

Gov. Charlie Crist is expected to sign the bill Monday in West Palm Beach.

"I know how important your state is," Giuliani said. "You're going to have lots
of candidates here. ... We're going to do wonders for your economy because we
are going to spend millions on television."

Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., will be in Miami on Monday to raise money
for her presidential campaign.

- brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Rudy Giuliani (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ROMNEY SKIRTS SOLUTION TO IMMIGRATION ISSUE

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: LAKELAND


Mitt Romney offered a mixed message on illegal immigrants Thursday, saying he
supports allowing them to apply to become permanent residents but opposes
current legislation that would allow them to do just that.

The Republican presidential candidate said he opposes the U.S. Senate
immigration bill because he believes it is unfair to legal immigrants who have
"waited in line" for the chance to stay in this country.

The bill, which has supporters and opponents in both political parties, allows
illegal immigrants to get legal status by paying fines and passing background
checks. President Bush favors it, but it faces a tough battle in the Senate.

While Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, said he would "not deny"
illegal immigrants the "opportunity to apply for permanent residency or
citizenship," he would not say how he would change the proposed legislation to
make such application acceptable.

Asked at a news conference in Lakeland how he would specifically change the
language, Romney said, "I'm not, here, going to describe language of a piece of
legislation. I'm not a legislator, at least not currently, so I'm not going to
give you legislative language."

Romney was in Lakeland to speak at the Polk County Republican Party Lincoln Day
dinner. Earlier in the day, he held a town hall meeting in Jacksonville and met
privately with supporters in Lakeland.

He said during the news conference that he wants secure borders and tougher
employment verification, which he believes will reduce the problem of illegal
immigrants coming to the United States and staying here.

~ brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mitt Romney (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS PRESENT AN ENFORCEMENT PROBLEM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 143 words


There is only one way to figure out the growing immigration problem in America.
Believe what you want, but this does not require a 20-foot-high fence or
thousands of soldiers on border patrol.

Our local governments need to empower themselves to punish the businesses that
hire those who are here illegally. What we as Americans need to understand is
that these people come to America every day for one thing: to work and make
significantly more money than they would back home.

These people sacrifice time with their families to make in a day what they
normally would make in a month back home. If there is nobody willing to hire
them, or there are no available jobs, there will be no immigration issue. No
piece of legislation will fix this issue; it takes the integrity of business
owners and the discipline of Americans to figure this out.

STEVE BENSON

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK: Immigration bill not well
thought out

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INACTION EQUALS AMNESTY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 189 words


When it comes to immigration, the 10 Republican presidential candidates fall
neatly into two camps.

In Camp 1 is John McCain, who supports the Senate's reform bill. In Camp 2 are
the other nine, who have no feasible plan for fixing the immigration mess but
oppose Sen. McCain because he does.

Rudy Giuliani complains nebulously about a missing "unifying purpose" in the
bipartisan bill. Mitt Romney says giving illegal immigrants a chance at legal
status "just isn't fair." What would be fair, he doesn't say. Tom Tancredo,
whose only issue is immigration, wants to deport the 12 million illegals on
behalf of Americans who want to be tomato pickers and hotel maids.

All 10 oppose amnesty but their definitions of it vary. "For us to do nothing is
silent and de facto amnesty," Sen. McCain said. Maintaining the status quo
ensures that illegal immigrants won't be fined, assessed back taxes or be forced
to register. Senate Republicans are threatening to filibuster today if Majority
Leader Harry Reid tries to call for a vote. A filibuster would preserve the
status quo, and with it the silent and de facto amnesty the country must end.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POTENTIAL DEPORTEES: JUST PACK UP AND LEAVE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 129 words


I read with interest the article "Potential deportees lying low" (Monday), about
the poor illegal immigrants who are worried about being evicted from our country
because the amnesty bill was not passed by Congress.

They do not have my sympathy, since they really are criminals who have invaded
our country to acquire jobs. Many Americans are unemployed because of these
illegals taking their jobs. The taxpayers are paying for their health care and
children's education at a great expense.

To these illegal immigrants: Go back to your countries and try to change
conditions there instead of trying to take over the United States of America. We
don't need you. You have felt secure, and worry about being evicted. This is not
your country -- go home.

PATRICIA KIEFFER

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PROVOKED BY ... NATIONAL NEWS Sunday BACK TALK

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 13, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DISTANT DREAM

BYLINE: By ALEJANDRA CANCINO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


On most days, Maritza carries a big smile. On this day, her eyes well up as she
talks about illegal immigration.

"I'm just very sensitive," the 16-year-old says in perfect English.

She tries to hold the tears and hide her secret, but the more she talks about
it, the more she opens up. After a few minutes, they all come out: the tears and
her story.

Her mom brought her to the United States when she was 7.

She cries because not having legal status means she won't be able to go to
college, mainly because of economic reasons.

"If I can go to college and get a good job, I can help my family" said the
student at Forest Hill High School, who didn't want to give her last name for
fear of being deported to Mexico.

About 5,000 undocumented students graduate from Florida high schools every year,
said Maria Rodriguez, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Coalition. The
coalition is one of many groups working to pass the federal Dream Act, a bill
that would allow undocumented students to go to college and qualify for in-state
tuition. A Florida resident pays an average of about $3,300 a year in tuition.
An out-of-state student pays $16,200.

Like Maritza, thousands of Florida students who graduate every year won't go to
college because they are undocumented. Although all 11 state universities and 19
of 28 community colleges accept undocumented students, those students don't
qualify for in-state tuition, state and federal grants, financial aid, or
numerous scholarships.

Maritza's mother sometimes works 14-hour days. She could never afford Maritza's
education.

Maritza said she would work to pay for her school, but without legal documents,
she would earn less than minimum wage.

The Dream Act has been introduced in Congress every year since 2001. This year,
although a broad immigration bill failed in the Senate, many believe the act has
a good chance of succeeding, mainly because it has had increasing support. Sen.
Richard Durbin, D-Ill., attached the bill as an amendment to the military
authorization legislation that the Senate put off until September.

In the House, Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Miami; Rep. Howard Bernan, D-Calif.;
and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Calif., introduced the bill in March.

Those who oppose the bill call it a reward for breaking the law. But the Dream
Act is Ivan's only ticket to college. The 14-year-old gifted student learned to
read, add and subtract when he was 3.

His mother, Maria, came to the United States looking for an opportunity for
Ivan. In her native Mexico, she said, Ivan wouldn't have had the education he
has here.

This school year, Ivan is enrolled in two Advanced Placement classes and four
International Baccalaureate classes. All his classes could give him college
credits. He has a 3.8 grade point average and received multiple awards last year
for math and science.

"It's frustrating to think that he is not going to pursue his education," said
Maria, who also didn't want to use her last name for fear of being deported.
Maria earns $800 a week cleaning houses in Palm Beach. But that steady income is
not enough to pay out-of-state tuition.

Lt. Col. Larry Marksberry, a JROTC senior army instructor at Forest Hill High,
said he has seen undocumented students excel in the JROTC program. Marksberry
said he had a student last year, Juan, who volunteered 3,000 hours to the
community and was selected for every honor he could think of. He now works in
the back of a supermarket.

"They are phenomenal young citizens, and it breaks my heart," Marksberry said.

The New York Times contributed to this story.

~alejandra_cancino@pbpost.com

Rules for relief

Requirements to qualify for immigration relief under the Dream Act:

- A student must have been in the United States for at least five years.

- The student must have been brought to the U.S. when he or she was 15 or
younger.

- The student must be able to demonstrate a good moral character.

The Dream Act

- Once a student graduates from high school, hewould be permitted to apply for
conditional status, which would authorize up to six years of legal residency.

- During the six-year period, the student must graduate from a two-year college,
complete at least two years toward a four-year degree or serve in the military
for at least two years.

- Permanent residency would be granted at the end of the six years if the
student has met all the requirements and has continued to maintain good moral
character.

Source: The National ImmigrationLaw Center

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info boxes at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer College education is beyond the grasp of
Maritza, 16, because she is an undocumented student.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 24, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWERS NEED TO GET THEIR LABORERS LEGALLY, PERIOD

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 211 words


I read with interest The Post's article "Immigration issue gnaws at growers"
(Wednesday). While one can appreciate American growers wanting low-cost labor to
harvest their fruits and vegetables, there is a more fundamental issue involved.
That issue, of course, is illegal immigration, per se. If illegal immigration
comes with an amnesty price tag attached, every American (except perhaps the
growers) should be adamantly against it. Growers have options. They can do what
every American business must do, i.e. use available, legal labor and price their
products accordingly.

Illegal immigration with amnesty would break the financial backbone of our
nation at a time when we can least afford it. To even consider providing
Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, education and other government benefits to
millions of illegal aliens is ludicrous at best.

If the administration is able to devise a plan to allow illegal immigrants to
harvest the growers' fruits and vegetables and guarantee the American people
that under no circumstances will they receive amnesty, all well and good. If
not, the growers should be forced to do what all American businesses must do --
compete in the free enterprise system. It seems to have worked pretty well so
far.

CLARENCE R. RYDBERG

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GIVE THESE ILLEGALS CREDIT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 251 words


Amid the housing loan debacle, one segment of the mortgage market is solid:
illegal immigrants.

As it turns out, home loans that don't require legal status are among the safest
risks that banks can take. According to The Wall Street Journal, ITIN mortgages
- which immigrants can get with only a taxpayer ID number - have a delinquency
rate of about 0.5 percent, roughly half that of prime mortgages and far below
the 9.3 percent rate of subprime loans.

One reason for the high reliability of "individual taxpayer identification
number" mortgages is that banks actually screen applicants thoroughly. Illegal
immigrants, who don't have valid Social Security numbers, typically must submit
more documents than U.S. citizens, including payroll and tax records. Had banks
checked subprime applicants this closely, a lot of today's pain could have been
avoided.

Another reason, according to the Journal, is the work ethic of immigrant
families, most of them Latino. Immigrant households make it a priority to pay
the mortgage before anything else. Illegals who worry about deportation don't
want the added risk of angering their bank.

ITIN loans make up only a small fraction of the mortgage market but have grown
rapidly in numbers since banks started offering them in 2000. The Bush
administration's crackdown on illegal immigrants - with workplace sweeps and
deportations - could change that. Some of the most responsible borrowers in the
United States may end up defaulting because the government sent them packing.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  QUICK TAKES

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AMERICANS ARE SICK OF ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 111 words


Pedro Zapeta is an illegal immigrant. What part of that does Dan Moffett not
get? ("Unfair: This story won't wash," Oct. 7). Perhaps Mr. Zapeta's treatment
has been un-American because many Americans are downright sick of people
breaking the law to get into our country.

Why are readers not informed about who the many employers of Mr. Zapeta are?
These employers are breaking the law and continuing to enable criminal conduct.
And why should he not pay taxes when American citizens do? I will not shop or
dine where I know illegal immigrants are hired.

More of us should stand up, speak out and get rid of illegals. Our country is at
stake.

CAROLYN STAFFORD

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK Attitudes on immigration all over
map

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 AMANDA VOISARD/2006 Stafffile photo Pedro Zapeta, a Guatemalan immigrant, sits
in the conference room at The Injury Law Offices of John T. Kennedy in Stuart in
October 2006. Mr. Zapeta hired immigration lawyer Marisol Zequeira to aid him in
retrieving his $59,000 in savings that was taken from him because the money was
not declared while he was passing through customs at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood
International Airport on his way home to Guatemala.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DON'T DESERVE 'FREE RIDE'

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 213 words


Regarding the Oct. 7 Opinion article about Pedro Zapeta, the Guatemalan
dishwasher whose hard-earned money was confiscated by the government ("Unfair:
This story won't wash"):

Boo-hoo.

While this would seem a travesty under normal circumstances, let us not forget
that Mr. Zapeta is an illegal immigrant living in this country. Many proponents
of easing the restrictions will argue that the illegal immigrant brings money
into our economy. Well, not necessarily, as we found out in this story. His
entire $59,000 was intended for his family in Guatemala to perhaps start a
business.

And let us not forget the famous rationale, "The illegal immigrant takes jobs
that Americans don't want." Again, this is not necessarily true. Though many
Americans hope to make more than minimum wage in a job, the low wages that
illegal immigrants make very often are paid in cash, "under the table." This
simply is a way for unscrupulous business owners to perpetuate the low wages
they pay, which no one could live on.

To those immigrants who have painstakingly paid their dues by seeking sponsors,
obtaining visas and going for citizenship the legal way, I say "Bravo!" I can't
imagine they would be feeling much sympathy for illegal immigrants being offered
a "free ride."

CAROL TEITELBAUM

Wellington

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IS ILLEGAL IS ILLEGAL;
SORRY, BUT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION IS A BIG DEAL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 175 words


Lawrence Downes ("The 'I' word lets bigots swing away," Opinion, Nov. 2) argues
that the seriousness of the connotation "illegal" when referring to the status
of the 12 million undocumented workers in the United States is greatly
exaggerated and not that big a deal. It is a big deal, and it's also wrong, when
someone can sneak across our border and end up as a citizen without our say or
scrutiny.

Mr. Downes falsely equates his illegal double-parking to a person's unlawful
entry into our country. His illegal parking doesn't obligate us to allocate our
tax dollars to nutritional assistance, educating his children or emergency room
care.

We need to set limits and rules under which people enter our nation. If we allow
individuals who remain here after their visas expire or evade the Border Patrol
to end up as citizens, these individuals would be operating outside our set of
rules, and we would not have control over the immigration process.

Therefore, immigration that is illegal is not trivial. That's reality, not
bigotry.

DAVID SIMMS

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK LETTERS TO THE EDITOR HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer Javier Ortolaza, featured in Christine Evans'
profile of South Grade Elementary School in Lake Worth, works with his 'little
ambassadors,' the newer students who are trying to learn English.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IS ILLEGAL IS ILLEGAL;
NO SYMPATHY FOR ILLEGALS OVER LEGALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 209 words


Again, The Post has devoted the front page, a five-day series, to illegal
immigrants, ("America's New Main Street"). This time, I would guess to evoke
some sympathy, it's all about children and the difficulties they face in our
schools -- the schools, by the way, paid by our taxes. And this time, rather
than compare these illegal immigrants with Jews fleeing the Nazis, they are
compared with Puerto Ricans who are afraid to go out without identification, and
Cubans.

For the life of me, I can't understand the thinking in this piece. Puerto Ricans
are part of America, from an American territory.Why would they have to fear
being stopped? They are as legal as any American. And Cubans have become some of
the most successful immigrants to this country, active in politics, doctors,
lawyers, brought to this country after Castro overthrew Fulgencio Batista.

I really think it is an injustice to compare all of these illegal immigrants
with those who are here legally and have earned successful lives. Our schools
are overburdened at this time because teachers are ill-equipped to teach
children who speak Creole or Kanjobal. Illegal means just that. Illegal. And it
is wrong to constantly compare these people with those who are not.

ANN PROBST

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK LETTERS TO THE EDITOR HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer Javier Ortolaza, featured in Christine Evans'
profile of South Grade Elementary School in Lake Worth, works with his 'little
ambassadors,' the newer students who are trying to learn English.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW IMMIGRATION POLICY FOR 'NEW MAIN STREET'

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 652 words


Immigration is a big, national political topic. But Post reporter Christine
Evans brought it down to a manageable size, explaining how illegal immigration
affects "little Lake Worth." Fittingly, her five-day series "America's new Main
Street" began -- and ended -- in school.

School represents a major cost of immigration, illegal or not. Every non-English
speaker who goes through South Grade Elementary costs the public an extra
$1,600. You don't have to be a Lou Dobbs or Tom Tancredo fan to worry about the
cost of providing education and other services to people who are in the United
States illegally.

But more even than the search for jobs and escape from war that draw so many
illegals, education represents the American dream. That's evident from the story
Ms. Evans relates of the Guatemalan woman who came illegally to America with her
7-month-old daughter strapped to her chest because "I wanted her to have a
chance."

The big immigration debate is about how to keep illegal immigrants out and,
sometimes, how to send home the ones already here. That isn't going to be
settled by the people living and working in Lake Worth. It may not be settled on
a national level any time soon.

So as long as the children of illegal immigrants are here, educating them is the
only thing that makes sense. Do that right, and many of the other fears and
objections about illegal immigrants -- from gangs to health problems to foreign
customs and not speaking English -- will correct themselves.

And immigrant advocates have to understand the negative impacts from our chaotic
immigration policy. Gangs are a prime concern and are a growing problem in
Florida, where many gangs have roots in Haiti and Latin American nations that
send so many illegal immigrants. But an anecdote in Ms. Evans' series shows how
a much less malevolent presence can be unacceptably disruptive.

It was about "the elderly couple on K Street, who have lived here forever in
their old family home. They were afraid to come out of the house this summer. A
few Mexican fellows got in the habit of jumping their fence to help themselves
to the mango tree. 'I think they hit the tree with a bat to get the fruit,' says
Carole Douglass. 'My mother's 82, and she wanted her mangoes. I was worried
about a confrontation.'" Solving that also is a matter of education, and the
main burden isn't on the elderly couple.

The stories about Lake Worth were filled with hope and striving, but also unease
and doubt. The overriding, national goal should be to control the border, meet
the nation's legitimate labor needs and direct immigrants to that American
dream. Proposals in Congress would provide needed labor, protect workers from
exploitation and allow America to better understand who is living within our
borders.

One of the most telling anecdotes in the Post series was the shock Lake Worth
officials suffered after Hurricane Wilma, when they understood just how many
people were living in their city and needed help. Having to live in the shadows
had forced many immigrants underground, and that does not improve homeland
security.

Just send them back? It's a powerful campaign slogan, but it can't be done. Let
them come, but in a way that makes sense? That can be done. It just hasn't been.
Lake Worth is living with the consequences. In some ways, that's bad. But then
there are the teachers at South Grade Elementary teaching immigrants to write,
over and over, in English, producing essays that begin:

The roosters were singing in Mexico and the sun was rising up. The morning came
on. -- by Marcos.

Adam was my favorite friend in the entire world. He was always there to cheer me
up when I was sad of heart. -- by Wilmer.

It's been five years since I have seen my family. My mama said we will go to
Guatemala soon. -- by Kimberly.

And that development is nothing but good.

To read the full series, visit the Special Reports section of
www.palmbeachpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STEER CLEAR OF DENYING DRIVER LICENSES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 240 words


The policy of denying driver licenses to illegal immigrants, already here,
should not be confused with the larger, political issue of the country's right
and responsibility to secure the nation's borders and control the flow of
international migrants into this country from places like Europe, Asia and Latin
America.

To deny driver licenses to illegal immigrants, already here, is a different
matter.

It is different because it puts at risk the children of illegal immigrants who
are U.S. citizens. The rights of these citizens to receive medical treatment, to
worship at church or even to be driven to a grocery store are severely hampered
by this policy of denial. Since the implementation of this policy, the horror
stories affecting the families of immigrants are just too numerous to mention.

Perhaps the worst consequence of this policy is that it tends to criminalize and
profile immigrants from Latin America as potential enemies of the state or even
terrorists. Nothing could be further from the truth. The majority of these
illegal immigrants are productive and otherwise law-abiding people who have
benefited this country for decades. To punish them and their children now by the
denial of driver licenses is, I feel, unnecessarily harsh. This is not what we
should expect of a country renowned throughout the world for its compassion and
sensitivity to the human rights of even the least among us.

THE REV. HUGH DUFFY, Ph.D.

Okeechobee

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK< HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK Bottom line: policy needs reform

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer Family and friends watch as the first van load
of illegal immigrants who had recently washed ashore arrives Nov. 15 at the
Miami-Dade County Health Department Refugee Center in Miami.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REPUBLICANS NOT AFRAID TO TAKE SHOTS ATEACH OTHER

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT and DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1145 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


There was no talking snowman, but questions from the occasional animated
character and a host of real-life Americans led to some sharp exchanges between
Republican presidential hopefuls in a debate Wednesday night.

Sponsored by CNN and the online video site YouTube, the two-hour debate featured
more than 30 questions chosen from about 5,000 videos submitted by the general
public, including one from Lake Worth resident Hank Campbell about the cost of
fixing roads, power grids and water plants.

The GOP debate followed a similar Democratic exercise this summer that is
perhaps best remembered for its question about global warming posed by a
snowman.

Wednesday's first series of questions, about illegal immigration, produced the
biggest fireworks.

Brooklyn resident Ernie Nardi, who called New York a "sanctuary city" for
illegal immigrants when Rudy Giuliani was mayor, ignited a feisty exchange with
several interruptions between Giuliani and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney.

Giuliani denied the "sanctuary city" charge, saying New York had a policy of
reporting illegal immigrants who broke the law, but made exceptions, such as for
people getting emergency hospital care.

Giuliani then moved from defense to offense. Accusing Romney of having a
"holier-than-thou attitude" on the issue, he said Romney lived in a "sanctuary
mansion" when he was governor because some people working on the residence
turned out to be illegal immigrants.

Romney said he wasn't responsible for the employees of a company he hired, and
he said it wouldn't be right to question laborers employed by someone else.

"If you hear someone with a funny accent, you, as a homeowner, are supposed to
go out there and say 'I want to see your papers'? Is that what you're
suggesting?" Romney asked.

Questions about illegal immigration consumed the first half-hour of the debate.

U.S. Sen. John McCain of Arizona, who supported immigration legislation
unpopular with many conservatives, said he has "learned the American people want
the borders enforced."

But, he added, "We need to sit down as Americans and recognize that these are
God's children as well ... and they need some protection under the law. And they
need our love and compassion."

Candidates also presented their own 30-second videos. McCain, Giuliani and U.S.
Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado all took shots at Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Former U.S. Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee took a different tack in his video,
using it to criticize Romney for favoring abortion rights as governor of
Massachusetts and Mike Huckabee for supporting tax hikes when he was governor of
Arkansas.

"Sen. Thompson, what's up with that?" CNN moderator Anderson Cooper asked.

"I wanted to give my buddies here a little extra air time. What do you mean
'What's up' with it? These are their words," Thompson said.

Cooper also stepped into the debate to ask Giuliani about a Wednesday report in
the online publication politico.com that Giuliani, as mayor, had billed obscure
city agencies for tens of thousands of dollars in security expenses while he was
involved in an extramarital affair with Judith Nathan, whom he later married.

"I had 24-hour security for the eight years I was mayor," Giuliani replied.
"They followed me every place I went. ... They put in their records. They
handled them the way they handled them. I had nothing to do with the handling of
their records. They were handled, as far as I know, perfectly appropriately."

In an Orlando debate, the Republicans spent more time criticizing Clinton than
drawing distinctions between one another. That wasn't the case Wednesday.

McCain lashed U.S. Rep. Ron Paul, the only antiwar candidate in the GOP field.

"We allowed Hitler to come to power with that kind of attitude of isolationism
and appeasement," McCain said, drawing applause and boos.

Paul replied that McCain "doesn't even understand the difference between
non-intervention and isolationism" and said that he has received more
contributions from active military members than any other candidate.

McCain, a prisoner of war in Vietnam, chastised Romney for failing to pledge he
would ban a type of simulated drowning called waterboarding.

"I'm astonished that anyone could believe that's not torture," McCain said.

Many of the evening's questions created discomfort for the candidates.

"The answer to this question will tell us everything we need to know about you,"
asked Joseph Dearing of Dallas, thrusting a Bible into the camera. "Do you
believe every word of this book?"

Giuliani said he believes in the Bible, but "I don't believe every single thing
in the literal sense of Jonah being in the belly of the whale."

Romney, a Mormon, said he believes "the Bible is the word of God absolutely" but
stammered when asked if he believed every word in it.

"The Bible is the word of God. I mean, I might interpret the word differently
than you interpret the word, but I read the Bible and I believe the Bible is the
word of God," he said.

Huckabee, a Baptist minister with a degree in theology, said, "I believe the
Bible is exactly what it is. It's the word of revelation to us from God
himself."

But, Huckabee added, "there are parts of it I don't fully comprehend and
understand, because the Bible is a revelation of an infinite god, and no finite
person is ever going to fully understand it. If they do, their god is too
small."

Huckabee, a supporter of capital punishment, was also asked "What would Jesus
do?" about the death penalty.

"Jesus was too smart to ever run for public office," Huckabee said.

Republican candidates were questioned by animated likenesses of Uncle Sam and
Vice President Dick Cheney and by a corn-munching opponent of agricultural
subsidies who declared that "nothing says delicious more than cheap corn
subsidized by the American taxpayer."

Most questions, though, were posed by ordinary people. Campbell asked what
sacrifices the candidates would make to pay for fixing America's infrastructure.

Giuliani said repairs would be a decades-long project that no single president
could achieve. McCain said he would pay for projects by vetoing "pork-barrel"
items.

- george_bennett@pbpost.com

- dara_kam@pbpost.com

Video questions

'I want you to tell me, do you support the elimination of the federal income tax
in favor of the national retail sales tax, also known as the fair tax?'

Ronald Lanham

Mobile, Ala.

'It has been estimated that to fix the bridges, the tunnels, the power grids,
the water delivery systems in this country will be in excess of $2 trillion ...
Who among the candidates here is willing to step forward and begin to articulate
the very difficult sacrifices which we need to make in order to start repairing
America?'

Hank Campbell

Lake Worth

'Will you grant your vice president as much power and influence as I've had? And
remember before you answer, I'm watching you.'

Nick Anderson

Editorial cartoonist, Houston Chronicle

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4 B&W)
 1. CHRIS O'MEARA/The Associated Press Gov. Charlie Crist (fourth from left)
joins candidates before the CNN/YouTube debate in St. Petersburg. From left:
Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado; former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee; former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney; former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani; former Sen.
Fred Thompson of Tennessee; Sen. John McCain of Arizona; Rep. Ron Paul of Texas;
and Rep. Duncan Hunter of California. 2. Uncle Sam. 3. Hank Campbell's video
question. 4. Nick Anderson's video question.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROSECUTORS WON'T SEEK EXECUTION IN IMMIGRANT DEATHS

BYLINE: By DAPHNE DURET Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: STUART


Federal prosecutors have decided not to seek the death penalty against two
suspected smugglers accused of causing the deaths of three illegal immigrants
during two incidents last year.

Martin County deputies arrested suspected boat captain Rickey Thompson and Leon
Brice Johnson in December 2006 in connection with the smuggling of a boat full
of immigrants from the Bahamas to Jupiter Island.

One man, Nigel Warren, died Dec. 28 when he tried to swim to shore from a
36-foot Intrepid boat before it crashed off Blowing Rocks Preserve.

The other passengers, all Jamaican men, were captured near the shore.

They told investigators that Thompson, whom they knew as "Daddy," piloted the
boat, and Johnson was the co-captain.

The men said they paid between $2,000 and $4,000 each for passage to the United
States from the Bahamas, only to be forced off the boat at gunpoint more than
100 yards off Jupiter Island.

Johnson and Brice were charged with a similar incident from Aug. 16, during
which prosecutors allege they forced people off a boat in rough waters off
Tequesta. Two Haitian nationals, Roselyne Lubin and Alnert Charles, were found
dead floating in the water along Jupiter Island.

According to court records, prosecutors do not intend to seek death sentences
against the pair for the three counts of immigrant smuggling resulting in death.
Court papers did not explain the reasoning.

In addition to the smuggling charges, Thompson and Brice also face charges of
second-degree murder from the two cases and gun and narcotics trafficking
charges in connection with the December 2006 incident.

They face a maximum life sentence if convicted.

- daphne_duret@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Rickey Thompson (left) and Leon Brice Johnson face charges on three deaths
in two cases. (mug) 2. Leon Brice Johnson (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION TAKES CENTER STAGE AT REPUBLICAN DEBATE

BYLINE: By DARA KAM and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1291 words

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES


Good fences make a safer country, Republican presidential candidates believe,
and they hope Hispanic voters think so, too.

That was the message that dominated Sunday night's debate featuring seven of the
eight Republican candidates and broadcast on Univision's Spanish-speaking
television and radio stations from the University of Miami.

A third of the hour-and-a-half debate was devoted to immigration, an issue
considered crucial to Hispanic voters in the 2008 election.

GOP front-runners Rudy Giuliani, Mitt Romney and Mike Huckabee said that the
borders should be secured but in general did not say what they would do with the
12 million illegal immigrants already in the country. They did little to
elaborate on their previous stances on the issue but avoided the sniping that
took place during the previous GOP debate.

Underdog Duncan Hunter seemed to encapsulate the overall message: that even
Hispanics, the majority of whom are Democrats, want illegal immigration stopped
before any other moves are made to deal with undocumented residents. The
California congressman said he had supported building the fence on the border
south of San Diego that cut down the flow of undocumented people there and also
reduced crime.

"I'm known as the guy who built the double border fence," Hunter said. "I got
more votes from the Hispanics known as the guy who built the double border
fence. The Hispanic community does not want illegal immigration."

Colorado Congressman Tom Tancredo, long-shot candidate who has made a tough
immigration stance the centerpiece of his campaign, refused to participate in
the Univision debate, in which questions were asked in Spanish and translated
into English for the candidates, who responded in English. Their answers, in
turn, were translated into Spanish.

The debate was scheduled in September but was postponed when only McCain agreed
to appear. Since then, however, it has become increasingly clear that
Republicans are having trouble courting Hispanics. A poll last week by the
nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center found that Hispanic registered voters favor
Democrats over Republicans by a margin of 57 percent to 23 percent, a wider gap
than in July 2006.

Most of the questions Sunday touched on immigration-related topics, including
electronic border fences, identification cards and racial profiling. About 85
percent of the questions submitted to Univision's Web sites concerned the issue,
announcers said.

But the debate Sunday night lacked the fireworks of the previous GOP forum,
which YouTube and CNN sponsored in St. Petersburg. During that encounter, the
candidates blasted each other, including a nasty back-and-forth in which Romney
blamed Giuliani for hosting a "sanctuary city" for illegal immigrants when
Giuliani was mayor of New York City. Giuliani responded by accusing former
Massachusetts governor Romney of hosting a "sanctuary mansion" when illegal
workers worked at his home.

The two never mentioned the word "sanctuary" Sunday night, but Romney was asked
whether he reported the undocumented workers to U.S. immigration authorities.

Romney said he fired his landscaper last week after learning that the contractor
had employed undocumented workers for the second time. But he did not say
whether he told officials about the potentially illegal workers.

"I think everybody in the country knows who those folks are. It's been in the
newspapers quite a bit," Romney said.

U.S. Sen. McCain, of Arizona, softened the immigration message, saying that
Americans want the borders secured but "we have to address this issue with
compassion and love because these are human beings."

And former Arkansas Gov. Huckabee assailed the slow-moving immigration system.

"If you can get an American Express card in two weeks, it shouldn't take seven
years to get a work permit to come to this country in order to work on a farm,"
he said.

None of the candidates directly answered a question about whether illegal
immigrants being deported should be separated from their children who are born
in the United States and thus are legal residents.

But former U.S. Sen. Fred Thompson and Romney said they support an end to "chain
migration" where the extended families of immigrants are allowed to become
residents.

The panel agreed that illegal immigrants should not be approved for legal
residence before those who go through proper procedures.

U.S. Rep. Ron Paul of Texas elicited boos from the audience when asked how he
would handle Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, whom many Cuban exiles despise
because of his support for Fidel Castro's communist regime.

"Well, he's not the easiest person to deal with, but we should deal with
everybody around the world the same way: with friendship and opportunity to talk
and try to trade with people," Paul said.

McCain and Giuliani both said they would echo the words of King Juan Carlos of
Spain, who recently got into a spat with Chavez.

"Por que no te callas?" McCain said, quoting the king. "Why don't you shut up?"

Paul received an even more negative response when he suggested that the U.S.
should open talks with Fidel Castro.

But Thompson received applause when asked how he would deal with the former
Cuban president, whose regime has outlasted nine U.S. presidencies.

"I would make sure he didn't survive 10 U.S. presidents," Thompson said.

Asked why Hispanics should vote Republican and not Democrat, Hunter aimed his
answer at Cuban Americans. He recalled the Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961 and how
Democratic Party President John Kennedy did not send the military help the
anti-Castro fighters expected.

"A Democrat administration let their aircraft sit there while those freedom
fighters were machine-gunned," Hunter said.

He added that, in the 1980s, GOP President Ronald Reagan helped save El Salvador
from communism by supplying U.S. support.

Huckabee rebuked Tancredo without naming him.

Huckabee said that not appearing at the debate amounts to acting "like that
somehow we've become so arrogant that there's any segment of our population that
we're either afraid to speak to, hear their questions, or somehow that we don't
think that they're as important as another group."

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

On immigration

'If you can get an American Express card in two weeks, it shouldn't take seven
years to get a work permit to come to this country and work on a farm.'

Mike Huckabee

Former governor, Arkansas

'I'm known as the guy who built the double border fence. I got more votes from
the Hispanics known as the guy who built the double border fence. The Hispanic
community does not want illegal immigration.'

Duncan Hunter

U.S. representative, California

'Americans want the borders secured first, but we have to address this issue
with compassion and love because these are human beings.'

John McCain

U.S. senator, Arizona

'Those who have come illegally, in my view, should be given the opportunity to
get in line with everybody else, but there should be no special pathway for
those that have come here illegally to jump ahead of the line or to become
permanent residents or citizens.'

Mitt Romney

Former governor, Massachusetts

On how to deal with Cuba

'We should treat Raul (Castro) with the same contempt we treat (Fidel) Castro,
including keeping the embargo on Cuba.'

Fred Thompson

Former U.S. senator, Tennessee

'We're at a time when we need to talk to Cuba and travel and trade with Cuba.'

Ron Paul

U.S. representative, Texas

On how to deal with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez

'I absolutely agree with the way King Juan Carlos spoke to Chavez.'

Rudy Giuliani

Former mayor, New York

Referring to Spanish King Juan Carlos' retort to Chavez during a summit last
month in Chile of Latin American nations with Spain and Portugal: 'Porque no te
callas?' (Why don't you shut up?)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) JOE RAEDLE/Getty Images Fred Thompson, (left) Mitt Romney and Rudy
Giuliani prepare to debate at the University of Miami Sunday. 2. LYNNE
SLADKY/The Associated Press GOP presidential hopefuls (from left) Mike Huckabee,
Fred Thompson, Mitt Romney, Rudy Giuliani, Ron Paul, John McCain and Duncan
Hunter took part in the debate. Tom Tancredo refused to participate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP'S SPLIT PERSONALITY ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 456 words


Americans who have tried following the Republican presidential debates are
starting the week with a bad case of ideological whiplash.

The candidates who showed up Sunday at the University of Miami didn't seem much
like those who tangled over immigration in the CNN/YouTube debate two weeks ago.
Wait a minute; that's it. Immigration explains everything.

When CNN ran the debate, the Lou Dobbs network made sure that the first
half-hour was devoted to illegal immigration. Rudy Giuliani had to defend
charges that he made New York a sanctuary city. Mitt Romney had to explain why
undocumented workers did his lawn. Mike Huckabee had to defend giving
scholarships to illegal immigrant children. And, of course, Tom Tancredo stuck
to his brainchild that the United States should round up and deport 12 million
people.

The change of venue changed the tenor of the discourse enough to make voters
wonder if these were really the same guys. Could it be that translating the
debate into Spanish and televising it on the Spanish-language network Univision
had something to do with it? Sí, señor, mucho. Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney kept
the cheap shots to themselves, Mr. Huckabee didn't have to justify his
scholarships idea, and Mr. Tancredo didn't show up. He objected to having the
debate in Spanish. John McCain actually made a plea for "compassion and love" in
dealing with illegal immigrants.

This time, the Republicans played to the audience by condemning Cuba's Fidel
Castro and Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, and calling for increased border
security. In Miami, that's always the choicest red meat for the masses.

Taken together, the two debates show the complexities of the Republicans'
problems with the immigration issue. On the right side of the spectrum, they
need hard-line talk to appease a constituency that considers an immigration
crackdown a national priority. At the other end are new Hispanic voters who may
be willing to defect from Democratic allegiances and could make the difference
in key states.

But the Republicans' most difficult problem is right down the middle. Poll after
poll - including the Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg News Service survey released
last week - has shown that people rate immigration as the fourth- or fifth-most
important issue, behind Iraq, the economy, terrorism, and health care.
Typically, only 10 percent to 15 percent put immigration first, Rep. Tancredo
and Mr. Dobbs not withstanding. And 60 percent favor citizenship for illegals
who pay fines and learn English.

Voters wouldn't know where Americans rank immigration to watch the CNN/YouTube
debate, or for that matter, the one in Coral Gables. The Republican candidates
will have to start straightening that out, no matter where they go.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN TOUTS VIEWS ON SECURITY

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 429 words


Republican presidential hopeful John McCain, who will be in Palm Beach County
for a fund-raiser this morning, acknowledges his stance on immigration has hurt
him in the polls but says he believes GOP primary voters will choose him for his
national security credentials.

In a brief phone interview Saturday from the campaign trail in South Carolina,
longtime steroids critic McCain also applauded former Senate colleague George
Mitchell's report on performance-enhancing drugs in Major League Baseball and
said the sport's owners and players union must agree on tougher anti-drug
measures.

McCain, a four-term senator from Arizona, is scheduled to attend a fund-raising
brunch at Lost Tree Village in northern Palm Beach County this morning, then
raise money at an afternoon event in the Fort Myers area.

McCain's support in national polls of Republican voters has slid during 2007
after he and President Bush supported immigration reform that includes a path to
citizenship for undocumented workers. McCain's position has drawn fire from many
in the GOP who favor a tougher stance against illegal immigration.

"I think that it is very clear that the Republican base and most Americans want
the borders secured first," he said.

McCain said he always has favored that tack, but said that it "clearly it did
not come through and clearly people didn't believe we would."

As he has in recent debates, McCain called for a "compassionate and humane"
discussion of immigration that keeps in mind that "these are God's children."

McCain, 71, is a decorated Navy pilot and Vietnam prisoner of war who was
elected to the U.S. House in 1982 and the U.S. Senate in 1986. He said he
believes Republican primary voters "are concerned about our nation's security,
very much so," and will turn to him because of his "experience and judgment" on
those issues.

He said the other GOP candidates "either took a hike or criticized me" when he
criticized former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's handling of the war in
Iraq. McCain was an early advocate of a troop buildup similar to the increase
that the U.S. put in place this year.

McCain, who as chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee pressed baseball in
2004 to adopt a drug-testing policy, praised Mitchell's work on the drug report,
which was released Thursday.

McCain said baseball players union head Donald Fehr should "stop all this
malarkey about players' right to privacy" and help implement a more stringent
anti-drug policy. He also said the federal government should continue financing
the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency.

~george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 24, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRANT DRUMMER BOYS

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 623 words


The politics of the Grand Old Party's ultraconservative religionists produce the
oddest cognitive dissonance. This campaign season has illuminated the jarring
contrast between the public piety of conservative Christians, a significant
faction in the Republican Party, and their intense anger toward illegal
immigrants.

That hostility is all the more jarring at Christmastime, when Christians around
the world commemorate the birth of Christ. You'd think that the season would
bring forth an outpouring of compassion, mercy and generosity. After all, the
Bible, which conservative Christians hold out as the inerrant word of God,
includes several admonitions to practice kindness toward "strangers."

But kindness doesn't seem to be much in the minds of Bible-thumping
conservatives.

Immigration is a much more important issue among Republican voters than among
Democrats, according to polls. That's especially true in early voting states
such as Iowa and South Carolina, where sizable pockets of illegal immigrants
have settled only during the past decade or so.

The intensity of the resentment has come as a surprise to Mike Huckabee, an
ordained Baptist minister. As an abortion-detesting, evolution-denying
homophobe, Mr. Huckabee is fast winning the devotion of his party's
Christianists, who seem to confuse the office of president with that of preacher
or priest. But Mr. Huckabee has one glaring flaw in an otherwise perfect
doctrinal suite: He has shown compassion toward illegal immigrants.

As governor of Arkansas, Mr. Huckabee supported legislation that would have made
undocumented college students eligible for college scholarships and in-state
tuition prices. Besides the imminent practicality of the proposition --
Arkansas, like its Southern neighbors, needs more college graduates -- Huckabee
says he wouldn't "hold children responsible for something their parents did,"
crossing the border illegally.

For that modest bit of pragmatism, Mr. Huckabee is being hammered by Mitt
Romney, who wants his Iowa lead back. Though he was relatively moderate on
immigration as governor of Massachusetts, he now presents himself in an ad as
the leader who bravely "stood up and vetoed in-state tuition for illegal aliens,
opposed driver's licenses for illegals."

Polls notwithstanding, Mr. Huckabee's position seems more biblically correct.
"We welcome the stranger because the savior himself was not welcomed in
mainstream society," said Robert Parham, executive director of the Baptist
Center for Ethics. "The whole teaching of 'no room at the inn' was about someone
poor and marginalized and pushed off to a stable."

For Republicans less comfortable with mixing the Bible and ballots, there are
worldly reasons to be wary of the deep-seated resentment of illegal immigrants
among a significant GOP constituency. As President Bush has warned, Republicans
risk permanent minority status if they alienate Latinos, the fastest-growing and
largest ethnic group, accounting for about 15 percent of the population.

Indeed, a recent poll by the Pew Hispanic Center shows the past several months
of shrill nativism have proved costly. About 57 percent of registered Hispanic
voters now lean toward the Democratic Party, while just 23 percent lean toward
the GOP -- a gap of 34 percentage points, the poll showed. Just a year ago, the
gap was 21 percentage points.

Still, the steady drumbeat of anti-immigrant demagoguery continues on the
Republican campaign trail, even as the candidates try to hype their biblical
bona fides. It's a strange spectacle in a season ostensibly dedicated to peace
on Earth and goodwill toward all humankind.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 6, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LOGIC ALIEN TO GOP

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 702 words


Republican presidential candidates are so desperate to score points on
immigration that they are willing to play Hail Mary politics and throw out any
idea or theory in the hope of making a connection.

Some of the desperation has turned downright embarrassing.

After Benazir Bhutto's assassination, reporters asked Mike Huckabee to comment
on the volatile situation in Pakistan. Somehow, the former Arkansas governor saw
a border security issue.

"We ought to have an immediate, very clear monitoring of our borders and
particularly to make sure if there's any unusual activity of Pakistanis coming
into our country," Mr. Huckabee said. Asked to clarify his remark the next day,
he said: "I am making the observation that we have more Pakistani illegals
coming across our border than all other nationalities except those south of the
border. And in light of what is happening in Pakistan, it ought to give us pause
as to why so many illegals are coming across these borders."

So, according to Mr. Huckabee, Americans should view the turmoil in Pakistan as
a threat that could send legions of illegal immigrant jihadists streaming north
out of Mexico. The government had better build its fence faster and higher
before the gangs of Karachi take over downtown Phoenix.

It would be too easy to interpret Mr. Huckabee's warning as the kind of
corrosive lunacy that afflicts people who don't get out of Arkansas much. So,
let's give him the benefit of the doubt and assume that he was just making a
shameful attempt to exploit anti-immigrant paranoia and overreached a bit.

There are plenty of things to complain about when it comes to U.S. border
security. But incursions by Pakistanis isn't one of them.

When the Census Bureau estimated the number of illegal immigrants by country of
origin seven years ago, Pakistanis didn't rank in the top 15; alien Peruvians
and Canadians were a bigger problem. The Department of Homeland Security says
that, after Latin America countries, far more illegal immigrants come from the
Philippines, Korea and China than from Pakistan.

Mr. Huckabee apparently was surprised to learn that accounts of Pakistanis
sneaking across U.S. borders are extremely rare. Try finding one. According to
Homeland Security statistics, the government apprehended 721 illegal immigrants
from Pakistan in 2006, and the most common violation was overstaying visas.

Mr. Huckabee also has forgotten that the 9/11 hijackers didn't enter the country
by wading across the Rio Grande; they got visas from the government. If he would
have called for greater scrutiny on Pakistani visa applications, he at least
would have made some sense.

But connecting the Bhutto assassination with border fencing is like trying to
make a link between bowling and world hunger. It's hard to say whether Mr.
Huckabee understands less about foreign policy or immigration issues, but it has
to be a close call.

The Republican candidates believe that they have to score points on immigration
angst to satisfy the party base, but figuring out how to do so isn't easy. Rep.
Tom Tancredo of Colorado tried running his whole campaign on it and didn't even
make it to Iowa. Petty sniping and personal attacks against rivals have filled
the space meant for ideas.

Mitt Romney has had to defend the immigration status of his gardeners. Rudy
Giuliani has refuted charges that he made New York a sanctuary city. Before he
started hallucinating about Pakistanis, Mr. Huckabee was fighting off attacks
for believing that children of illegal immigrants shouldn't be penalized with
higher college tuition rates.

If you've ever watched 8-year-olds play soccer, you have the mental picture of
what it's like to watch the GOP candidates approach immigration.

In the frenzy to score, every player tries to kick the ball at once. And
wherever the ball goes, the scrum of churning elbows and legs follows, without
any sense of direction or strategic bearing. All that matters is getting your
foot on the ball before somebody else.

If you want to find out how U.S. immigration policy got into the mess it is
today, just watch the Republicans' theater of the absurd.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFF-CAMERA, RUDY'S CALM ON ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 762 words


Rudy Giuliani came by The Post on Thursday. Not surprisingly, he talked about
illegal immigration. Surprisingly, when he talked about immigration, he wasn't
that Rudy Giuliani.

That Rudy Giuliani spent the second half of last year snarling at Mitt Romney
over illegal immigration. Mr. Romney, who wanted to isolate himself and Mr.
Giuliani as Republican front-runners, snarled first and kept snarling right
back. Their snarling began in August and devolved to a late-November debate
exchange. Mr. Giuliani went after Mr. Romney as if the former Massachusetts
governor were one of those Mafia wiseguys whom Mr. Giuliani prosecuted in New
York during the 1980s.

Um, except back then, Mr. Giuliani wanted confessions about murders and
racketeering. This time, he wanted Mr. Romney to confess that illegal immigrants
once mowed his lawn.

Mr. Giuliani won that night, sort of. He might have pleased the supposed
25percent to 30 percent of GOP voters who will settle for nothing short of
deporting anyone who's in the country illegally, even if the number is
12million. The snarlfest, though, probably terrified Republicans, Democrats and
Independents who are looking for a more ... sensible and realistic immigration
policy.

Last week at The Post, there was no national TV audience. Mitt Romney wasn't
even in Florida. Rudy Giuliani talked about immigration at length, and offered a
sensible and realistic policy. As they say in New York, go figure.

Adjusting to 'political calculus'

Last year, President Bush tried to get his party behind bipartisan legislation
that would have strengthened security along the Mexican border and granted legal
status to illegal immigrants. Had the president tried that after his reelection
instead of trying to eliminate Social Security, he might have succeeded.

By 2007, though, Mr. Bush's approval rating had tanked. When he visited the
Capitol last summer, Republican senators listened politely, then blew him off.
Immigration "reform" at this point is a bigger border barrier, even though the
government reports that about 40percent of those in the United States illegally
came here legally and then overstayed their visas.

Still, the white-hot politics of the immigration issue comes down to one
sentence: "To continue in English, press 1." Given the emotion, Mr. Giuliani
believes that the "political calculus" now demands that any president proceed in
two phases -- border control, then illegals who are here --- rather than attempt
to deal with both at once.

So, Mr. Giuliani first would try to stop more people from coming illegally. He
would create a "tamper-proof" ID for immigrants who want temporary work, such as
picking crops. "Employers," he says, "then would have no excuse." There would be
no question about background checks. No card, no job.

Nation can't deport them all

You can find that information on Mr. Giuliani's campaign Web site. You won't
find the other realistic part of his policy, which applies to illegals who are
here.

Deport them all? Fuggedaboutit. "Can you imagine," he asks, "how many
immigration judges we would need? How many lawyers? The bureaucracy?" Maybe the
number of illegals nationwide, Mr. Giuliani says, is 12 million. Maybe it's 8
million. Maybe it's 20 million. "In New York, we always thought it was about
400,000. But it might have been 300,000, or it might have been 600,000."

Whatever the number, the idea that the government could round up and deport
every illegal immigrant -- most for committing the misdemeanor of entering
illegally -- is nuts. And the idea, floated last year as a compromise, of making
all illegals go home, then come back legally? Mr. Giuliani rightly dismisses it
the way he used to cut off pesky callers to his mayoral radio show.

Control the border. Show the country that you can stop the flow. In "two or
three years," Mr. Giuliani says, require illegals, if they want to stay, to pay
fines, learn English and "go to the back of the line" for citizenship behind
those who came legally. Except for the timetable, it's close to what Congress
might have done last summer, and close to what most Americans claim to want.

Mr. Giuliani's plan may not matter. If he doesn't win the Florida primary in 16
days, his campaign could be over. But it's interesting. As mayor, Mr. Giuliani
took pride in making enemies. Yet when it comes to the nation's law-abiding
illegal immigrants, Mr. Giuliani passes on the chance to consider them enemies.
That Rudy Giuliani makes sense.

Randy Schultz is the editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His
e-mail address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CALLING OUT DEMONIZERS ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 463 words


Immigration always has been a potential source of conflict. New arrivals to the
United States can force economic competition and cause collisions of culture and
race.

Regularly, out of irrational fear or self-interest, demagogues have fed on these
inherent conflicts and advanced agendas that range from intolerance to hate.
Traditionally, news organizations tried to determine the line that separates
legitimate, vigorous discourse on volatile immigration issues from the
xenophobic comments of extremists. Today, civil rights groups worry that not
only is the line getting harder to determine, news organizations are crossing
it, not trying to monitor it.

Last week, the National Council of La Raza, a four-decades-old Hispanic civil
rights group, accused cable news channels of injecting hate into the illegal
immigration debate to boost ratings. Janet Murguia, the La Raza president,
blames Fox News, MSNBC and CNN's Lou Dobbs in particular for "demonizing the
Hispanic community."

"Hate groups and extremists have taken over the immigration debate," Ms. Murguia
says. "They no longer occupy the fringe. They have become part of the
mainstream." La Raza is joined by the Anti-Defamation League and Southern
Poverty Law Center in believing that cable networks should be held accountable
for programs that breed intolerance against immigrants. "This isn't about free
speech," Ms. Murguia says. "It's about hate speech."

Mr. Dobbs has become the standard-bearer for a regiment of broadcasters who base
their existence almost exclusively on the anger over illegal immigration. Regard
for the facts can be secondary to sensationalism. Mr. Dobbs' most famous example
of inflammatory fiction was his claim in May that illegal immigrants had caused
7,000 new cases of leprosy in the United States over three weeks. It took Mr.
Dobbs many weeks to half-heartedly acknowledge his mistake.

Personalities on Fox and MSNBC have been just about as bad. Talk radio can be
even worse, as South Florida listeners know. Broadcasters have discovered that
they can use narrow-minded discourse to attract narrow but loyal audiences,
providing enough eyes, ears and venom to stay on the air. As Ms. Murguia puts
it: "A new strain of hate has formed a new home."

The new trend in cable television is "answer journalism," programming that
reinforces whatever the viewer brings to the broadcast. If you believe that
illegal immigrants are undermining the country and stealing jobs, you can check
with Mr. Dobbs for one hour each night and come away believing that you are
right, and not alone. The same approach applies to many talk-radio shows from
left and right. There's nothing wrong with journalistic advocacy. But the
"answer" to an issue such as immigration is not to substitute blame for honest
debate.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 11, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SCAPEGOAT FLOPS

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 629 words


So much for Tancredoism.

Tom Tancredo is the Colorado congressman who ran for the Republican presidential
nomination on a simple platform of nativism and undisguised contempt for illegal
immigrants. Since his ill-tempered and simplistic views reflected the sentiments
of the hard-core Republican base, several other members of the GOP field adopted
a similar mean-spirited rhetoric.

As Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney -- Republican hopefuls with moderate records on
illegal immigration -- tacked toward Know-Nothingism, Arizona Sen. John McCain
resisted the impulse to blame illegal immigrants for everything from terrorism
to high taxes. As his signature legislation to legalize undocumented workers was
routinely excoriated as "amnesty" by conservative talk-show hosts and right-wing
bloggers, Sen. McCain barely budged.

In November, during a Republican debate in St. Petersburg, his GOP rivals worked
to prove their anti-immigration bona fides, citing support for such dubious
measures as high fences and hot pursuit of Mexican landscapers. An
unenthusiastic Sen. McCain pledged to tighten the borders but declined to
ratchet up his rhetoric.

"We must recognize these are God's children as well," he said. "They need our
love and compassion, and I want to ensure that I will enforce the borders first.
But we won't demagogue it."

Now, Sen. McCain is the likely Republican nominee. Among the losers in last
Tuesday's mega-primary was the Tancredo Credo, which placed illegal immigrants
at the center of every peril and every problem facing the American voter. With
both remaining Democrats -- Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama -- having voted for
comprehensive immigration reform, there is little chance the Oval Office will be
occupied by an anti-immigration mossback.

Even Republican voters have moved immigration down to their second
most-important issue, after the economy, according to Super Tuesday exit polls.
They ranked the war in Iraq third. Democrats don't list immigration in their top
three concerns. Instead, they emphasize the economy, the war in Iraq and health
care.

Illegal immigration remains a complex and nettlesome issue, requiring a
thoughtful and measured response. That, by the way, was represented by the
McCain-Kennedy comprehensive reform bill, which failed when Republicans, despite
support from President Bush, refused to vote for it.

While illegal immigrants burden the social infrastructure -- schools, hospitals
and housing -- they also revitalize many neighborhoods as they open new
businesses and buy additional goods and services.

Many immigrant children will start school with poor English skills. That forces
teachers to work harder and burdens crowded schools. But those Mexican and
Guatemalan schoolchildren will learn to speak English quickly; language skills
are more easily acquired in youth. (The relative youth of illegal immigrants
also helps solve a demographic problem: As the U.S. birth rate falls, we are
aging as a nation. We need younger workers.)

At the very bottom of the wage scale, illegal immigrants probably take a few
jobs away from uneducated and marginalized American laborers. But the effect is
minimal, according to researchers. The most comprehensive analysis has found
that illegal immigration depresses wages no more than 60 cents an hour.

Those subtleties were drowned out by the Know-Nothing demagoguery that dominated
the Republican campaign. But with the GOP race largely settled -- and with Sens.
Obama and Clinton courting Latino voters -- the rhetoric will likely moderate.

That's because voters didn't fall for the scapegoating premise of Tancredoism.
It was a bad product, and few voters bought it.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRANT PROTEST TARGETS DAY-LABOR SITE

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


John and Wendy Donahue say they lost their jobs, they lost their home and now
they've lost their patience with what they see as the main culprit: illegal
immigration.

"It's impossible to find a job," said Wendy, mother of four, ages 14 to 21.
"These illegals are undercutting wages."

Formerly local home painters, the Donahues were two of about 100 protesters
Saturday outside of the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center in Jupiter. The
day-labor center connects undocumented immigrants with local employers.

"It's the Taj Mahal in there," said Wendy, 36. "They get served coffee,
doughnuts -- a waiting lounge."

El Sol clients and representatives had a counterdemonstration, a prayer vigil
that was, at times, drowned out by the honking car horns or jeers from sign- and
flag-waving opponents at Indiantown Road and Military Trail.

The federal illegal immigration debate is playing itself out on Palm Beach
County streets. And this work center has become the focus of a town council
campaign and now a congressional primary election.

"To us, it's not an immigration problem," El Sol president Mike Richmond said.
"It's a local problem for the Town of Jupiter."

That problem was the hordes of undocumented workers who formerly clogged busy
intersections and residential neighborhoods, grappling for a spot in the back of
a pickup truck and a hard days work.

Now, State Rep. Gayle Harrell, R-Stuart, wants to shut down El Sol.

"This should be a federal issue," Harrell said of illegal immigration. "And the
federal government needs to step up to the plate. ... But given they're not, the
state government needs to do what it can."

Harrell's Florida Safe Borders Act (HB 821) would bar any county or municipality
from creating, operating, funding or even assisting with any day-labor center
aiding undocumented immigrants.

Jupiter helped establish El Sol, partly by buying it a building for $2 million,
which its operator, Catholic Charities of Palm Beach Inc., now leases for $1 a
year.

"We should not use those scarce resources, these taxpayer dollars, to help
illegals get jobs," Harrell said.

Harrell joined the weekly protests at El Sol Saturday to bolster support for her
bill and her candidacy to succeed U.S. Rep. Tim Mahoney, D-Palm Beach Gardens.

It's not clear what penalty local governments would face for aiding such
day-laborer centers, based on the bill's language. But protesters said the
centers encourage further illegal immigration.

El Sol representatives disputed the idea that it is a magnet for undocumented
workers.

"Immigrants have been coming here for 20 years," Richmond said. "Workers came
before there was a center like this.

"We think this is one of the best investments a town can make."

Protesters on both sides acknowledged that El Sol has been effective to some
degree in reducing congregations of workers at places like Center Street.

Inside El Sol, undocumented workers play chess, eat meals and await job
assignments through a lottery system. While there, they also have job training
courses, computer classes and civic training.

Ironically, as some protesters outside Saturday called for undocumented
immigrants to learn English, that's exactly what the undocumented workers were
doing inside El Sol.

A 27-year-old from Mexico was one of them, doing so after living in America
illegally for seven years. He no longer seeks work on Jupiter's streets.

"Before this center, when we were in the streets, it was very difficult," he
said. "The one who was stronger would get the job. ... This has order, and we
have opportunities for everybody."

~dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2008



CORRECTION: Because of a reporting error, The Palm Beach Post on Sunday
incorrectly reported that Catholic Charities of Palm Beach Inc. operates El Sol
Neighborhood Resource Center and leases the center's building from Jupiter.
Catholic Charities' affiliation with the center ended Dec. 31. The error
appeared on Page 3C of the Local section.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 LUCAS CANNISTRACI/Staff Photographer A protester at the El Sol Neighborhood
Resource Center, a day-labor center in Jupiter, shouts at immigrant workers
crossing a street Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FENCE IS VIRTUAL, WASTE IS REALITY

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 729 words


It's been close to a year and a half since Congress passed the Secure Fence Act,
the brainchild of House Republicans that was supposed to stop the flow of
illegal immigrants across the U.S.-Mexico border.

The plan called for the Department of Homeland Security to build about 670 miles
of fencing, but details were pretty much left to the Bush administration's
imagination.

Left undefined were what kind of fence would be built, exactly where it would
go, how much it would cost and the timetable for completion.

Supporters of The Fence talked about the idea as if it would take little more
than a trip to Home Depot and a long weekend to pull off. But backyard projects
always are notorious for their underestimated demands of time, money and effort.
The order of magnitude of the miscalculations for this one is off the chain
link, however.

Last week, DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff gave Congress an update on the
government's fence project, which he has promised to complete by the end of the
year.

"We are on pace to meet that commitment," he told the House Judiciary Committee.
"We have built 302.4 miles of fence, including 167.7 miles of pedestrian fence
and 134.7 miles of vehicle fence."

This report did not sit well with Republicans. The vehicle fencing stands only a
few feet high, which means it does nothing to stop pedestrian traffic.
Proponents of the Secure Fence Act thought they'd be getting a barrier 16 feet
tall that not only kept out migrants but also made a political statement --
maybe something like in Gaza, or Belfast, or years ago in Berlin. Sen. Jim
DeMint, R-S.C., was so outraged over Mr. Chertoff's idea of fencing that last
week he proposed the Complete the Fence Act. The bill would require Homeland
Security to construct 700 miles of reinforced, climb-resistant pedestrian
fencing and have it done by the end of 2010.

Sen. DeMint also joined Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., the former presidential
candidate, in calling for an end to Homeland Security's experiments with virtual
fencing. They want literal fencing because the computerized stuff seems to be
going haywire.

Two weeks ago, an official with the Government Accountability Office told
Congress that the first efforts to monitor the border with a system of high-tech
sensors are riddled with high-tech glitches.

The virtual fence experiment covers 28 miles along the border and is called
Project 28 for the obvious reason. The government gave Boeing about $21 million
to design the network of cameras, radar, sensors and aerial surveillance.

The GAO's Richard Stana studied the system and reported some rather stunning
deficiencies to Congress. He said the radar and sensors can register false
positives because of raindrops, or windblown leaves and litter. A flying plastic
grocery bag can set off the detectors about as easily as a coyote and his
migrants.

Mr. Stana also said the cameras have a range of about 10 miles when they were
supposed to cover 20 miles. He said the images they capture are often too grainy
to be useful. He said Boeing set up the system in the field without adequate
testing beforehand.

Perhaps Boeing's biggest failure, however, was that it didn't consult with
Border Patrol agents to find out what they expected the virtual fence to do. The
company built something based on the company's intuition, not the customer's
specific needs. When does that ever work?

Some of the problems with Project 28 might have solutions and some of them might
not. What's virtually certain is that Homeland Security was under political
pressure to put up fencing and pressured Boeing to put up a system that wasn't
ready to be deployed. The GAO recommends putting off further deployment of the
Boeing barrier until the design can be modified. That could be several years.

The price tag for the Secure Fence Act was supposed to be around $8 billion, but
no one's taking any figure literally anymore. Congress and the president
underestimated the magnitude of the undertaking from the outset. But the worst
of all the flaws was a defect in logic.

What sense does it make to try to close off a 2,000-mile border with 670 miles
of fencing?

That would be as ridiculous as trying to win a war, put down an insurgency and
occupy a hostile country with half the troops you needed, wouldn't it?

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A LICENSE? TALK ABOUT IT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 454 words


The verdict was bizarre. The larger issue is easier to understand.

Two years ago Saturday, Margaret Campbell was killed in northwestern Palm Beach
County when a truck driven by an illegal immigrant named Cesar Mejia ran a red
light and crushed Ms. Campbell's Subaru. Nine days ago, a jury acquitted Mr.
Mejia not only on the vehicular homicide charge but on the lesser charge of not
having a valid driver license and causing death. Conviction could have meant a
five-year sentence.

According to prosecutors, Mr. Mejia ferried other illegals from Mexico to the
Southeast. His passengers paid for gas, and employers paid him when the laborers
got jobs. Assistant Palm Beach County State Attorney Ellen Roberts, who runs the
traffic division, prosecuted the Mejia case. Traffic crimes involving illegal
immigrants make up a "significant percentage" of all cases. "They don't drive
well," Ms. Roberts said, "and they don't drink well," though Mr. Mejia wasn't
speeding and wasn't drunk.

Social vultures circle over this kind of story line: If the illegal Mejia hadn't
been in the United States, a beloved educator would be alive. As Ms. Roberts
notes, however, illegals who drive without a license don't create a pool of bad
drivers; they widen a large pool. Roughly one-third of U.S. citizens who drive,
Ms. Roberts estimates, don't have a valid license. There have been high-profile
cases in this area of Americans who drove with a suspended license and killed
people.

Still, the Mejia case forces the issue. Those who don't want to stigmatize
illegal immigrants have to acknowledge that bad driving threatens public safety.
Those who blame illegals for all sorts of problems have to acknowledge that
making the illegals stay in the shadows doesn't help public safety.

Ms. Roberts doubts that Congress can pass immigration reform granting legal
status to all illegals. If it happened, though, and if illegals had to get
licenses and insurance -- "everybody pays when they get in an accident and don't
have insurance" -- things might improve. "It would be helpful," Ms. Roberts
said, "if they had a license."

It also would be helpful if Congress gave local governments some help. Mass
deportation won't work, although illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes
are deported. Many law enforcement officers support legal status, because
illegal immigrants who fear deportation don't report crimes.

But if there can be a subprime mortgage market for illegal immigrants, perhaps
there can be legal status that encourages or requires them to be good drivers.
In today's climate, it would be normal to blame the accident that killed
Margaret Campbell on weak immigration enforcement. A better response would be to
prevent more such accidents.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNDER THE SAME MOON

SECTION: TGIF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 252 words


(PG-13) 1 hour, 49 minutes (subtitled).

In the Mexican film Under the Same Moon (La Misma Luna), director Patricia
Riggen puts a face on the debate over illegal immigration, humanizing the bitter
struggle of families separated by the yearning for a better life.

Rosario (Kate del Castillo) is a fiercely maternal, tireless maid who leaves her
rural village for better pay cleaning the homes of indifferent rich people in
Los Angeles.

She is intent on saving enough money to send for her son Carlitos (Adrian
Alonso), now 9, whom she left in the care of his grandmother four long years
ago. Each Sunday, they have a ritual phone call in which she describes to him
the sights of her humble barrio, but it is no substitute for them being
together.

When the grandmother suddenly passes away, resourceful Carlitos begins a
harrowing journey, smuggled across the border under the back seat of a minivan.

Then he has to make his way from El Paso to L.A., with the begrudging help of a
grumpy undocumented migrant worker (Eugenio Derbez), who risks deportation for
the persistent kid. Finally, with no address for his mother, the boy has to find
the pay phone that she calls from.

Alonso (The Legend of Zorro) is enormously appealing and his empathetic
performance helps us get beyond some of Under the Same Moon's more far-fetched
plot points.

Although del Castillo's (Trade) romantic entanglements are very telenovela, it
is hard not to root for her reunion with Carlitos.

The grade: B+

Now showing at area theaters.

-- Hap Erstein

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MOVIE REVIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 PARTNERS: Adrian Alonso and Eugenio Derbez hit the road in Under the Same Moon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 7, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THIS IMMIGRATION BILL MAKES SENSE FOR STATE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 388 words


At least a half-dozen bills on immigration are being circulated in Legislature.
All except one are examples of political grandstanding that would force the
state to take on responsibilities that rightly belong to the federal government.

The one good bill is a proposal that could save taxpayers millions by allowing
the deportation of illegal immigrants in Florida's prisons. Cosponsored by Sens.
Jeff Atwater, R-North Palm Beach, and Mike Bennett, R-Bradenton, Senate Bill
1086 would require state prison officials to work with Homeland Security and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to deport illegal immigrants who had served
at least half of their sentences. The offenders would have to agree to be
deported, and their home countries would have to agree to take them.

Former Gov. Lawton Chiles did something similar in 1994 when he worked with
federal authorities to send hundreds of illegal immigrants -- most of them
convicted on drug charges and nonviolent offenses -- from prisons in Florida to
their homelands. Cubans were exempted because the United States has no formal
diplomatic relations with the Castro government.

About 5,000 illegal immigrants are believed to be in Florida prisons,
representing about 6 percent of the inmate population. About 61 percent of the
illegals were convicted of violent crimes. Cuban nationals still make up the
largest percentage of those incarcerated, followed by Mexicans and Jamaicans.

According to the Florida Department of Corrections, it costs the state about
$20,000 annually to incarcerate an inmate, so the potential savings in a tight
budget year could be substantial. New York saved about $150 million last year
with a similar measure, and Arizona also has freed up prison cells through
deportation.

The Senate Criminal Justice Committee unanimously approved the legislation last
week. The bill could come up for discussion in the House this week. Unlike the
other immigration bills in the Legislature, the prisoner deportation measure
does not encroach into federal enforcement responsibilities and put more burdens
on the state. Even most immigrant advocates and defense lawyers have no
objections because inmates would have to accept deportation voluntarily. Many of
them are more than ready to leave the country, and it makes no sense for the
state to pay to keep them here.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2008

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HARRELL IMMIGRATION BILL FINDS LITTLE HOUSE TRACTION

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Two hours and forty-five minutes of testimony and debate brought the legislator
no closer to passage of her bill aimed at curtailing illegal immigration.

Yet following the marathon session before the House State Affairs Committee,
Rep. Gayle Harrell, who in February considered it an "uphill battle" to get her
immigration bill through both houses, was more convinced than ever of its
passage.

"I'm positive; I think there will be a bill this session," said Harrell, R-Port
St. Lucie. "I was saying 50-50 before. Now I'm saying 75."

Her bill would require local agencies to report suspected undocumented workers
to federal authorities, and it would ban public subsidies or assistance to
day-labor centers such as El Sol in Jupiter for those workers.

This assessment came despite the fact that no legislative committee had held a
vote on it with less than a month remaining in the session.

Democrats criticized Harrell for using illegal immigration as a campaign ploy to
gin up support in her bid this year to unseat U.S. Rep. Tim Mahoney, D-Palm
Beach Gardens. They cited a flier her legislative office sent to her
constituents touting the bill.

"Since Harrell knows better than anybody that her fellow Republicans won't let
that bill go anywhere; she's obviously just wasting thousands of taxpayer
dollars to build a fund-raising list for her congressional campaign," Florida
Democratic Party spokesman Mark Burbriski said.

For about $1 a pop, 9,000 fliers went to constituents in District 81, which
covers parts of Martin and St. Lucie counties, Harrell said.

"This is not a campaign ad," Harrell said. "It's a communication. We have an
allocation every year to communicate, and it is approved by the Florida House."

~dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2008 Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PANEL CONSIDERS EARLY RELEASE FOR JAILED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


As many as 5,000 illegal immigrants locked up in Florida prisons could get out
early and be deported under a measure a Senate committee approved Monday.

If the proposal became law, the state could save about $15 million, said Sen.
Mike Bennett, sponsor of the bill (SB 1066).

The plan would allow non-violent prisoners to serve a minimum of 50 percent of
their sentences and then be deported to their country of origin. All prisoners
in Florida now must serve a minimum of 85 percent of their sentences.

Federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials found that, under similar
agreements, New York officials saved nearly $140 million between 2005 and 2007,
and Arizona officials saved $13 million in prison costs.

The proposal would save money not only for prison bed costs but also for guards
and probation officers in an era when Florida is anticipating a need to build
8,000 additional prison beds at a cost of about $450 million, Bennett said.

"Every one of these people is getting deported anyway" after their sentences are
completed, he said.

Corrections officials contend the savings for the state would be far less than
Bennett's estimate because about one-third of the illegal immigrants behind bars
here are Cubans and cannot be deported to their homeland.

And, they say, nearly 60 percent of illegal immigrant inmates are serving
sentences for violent crimes, making them ineligible for the program. Also, in
order to be deported, the prisoners' countries of origin as well as the inmates
themselves would have to agree to the deportations.

Department of Corrections officials estimate that fewer than 1,000 inmates would
be eligible for the program. The Parole Commission would have to recommend
inmates for early release, but there is no way to predict how many would be
approved.

Opponents of the measure, including Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Alex
Villalobos, argue that it would provide an incentive for drug traffickers to
hire illegal immigrants to deal in drugs because they would be eligible to serve
shorter sentences.

- dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. LEGISLATURE 2008 Day 48 Session runs through May 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

2 ILLEGAL WORKERS ADMIT TO SMUGGLING OTHERS

BYLINE: By SARAH PROHASKA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Two illegal workers who admitted to accepting money for smuggling other illegal
immigrants from Houston to Florida pleaded guilty Monday to two federal charges.

Jimmy Efrain Morales-Santos, 25, and Hermenegilda Garcia-Hernandez, 37, could
face up to 12 years in prison on charges of transporting an illegal immigrant
within the United States and illegal reentry of a deported immigrant. They are
scheduled to be sentenced July 21.

Both had been deported and acknowledged entering the United States a second time
illegally. They said little during a hearing Monday morning at the federal
courthouse in Fort Pierce, but they agreed with the federal prosecutors' account
of events leading to their arrests.

They were arrested March 5 after U.S. Customs Agent Raul Delgado Jr. received a
tip that more than 15 people were loaded into a white van with tinted windows
and Texas plates at about 12:40 a.m. at a rest area on Interstate 95. About an
hour later, Delgado spotted the van, which exited onto Okeechobee Road in Fort
Pierce and drove east.

He stopped the van and found 19 people inside who were "sitting on the van seats
and in between the seats," according to court documents. Some of the passengers
claimed to be from Mexico, while others said they were from Honduras and others,
from Guatemala.

They all admitted that they were in the United States illegally, according to an
arrest report.

"Morales indicated he assumed the people he was transporting were illegal
aliens," Assistant U.S. Attorney Carmen Lineberger said.

Morales-Santos and Garcia-Hernandez told authorities they were hired in Houston
a month earlier by a woman named "Carla," who offered them $500 to $650 a trip
to drive undocumented immigrants from Texas to other states to meet relatives
willing to pay a smuggling fee of roughly $1,000 a person.

A manifest inside the van contained the names of the van's occupants, along with
family phone numbers, drop-off locations and outstanding fees to be collected.

Morales-Santos told officials he had made three trips, and Garcia-Hernandez said
this was her second trip.

Morales-Santos was the driver of the van, while Garcia-Hernandez collected the
money, according to reports. Most of the passengers said they entered the
country near McAllen, Texas, about a week earlier and were taken to Houston.

~ sarah_prohaska@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BLIND EYE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION IS TRAGIC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 155 words


I, as an American citizen, am absolutely enraged about the nerve of The Palm
Beach Post to run an article featuring an immigrant who is obviously illegal
("Art becomes day laborer's handiwork," May 12).

It is a slap in the face to the American people when Jose Antonio Gonzalez
Chavajay admits in the article that he came to the United States after he "paid
a coyote -- smuggler -- $7,000 to get him across the border to America." Then at
the end of the article, which talks about his wonderful ability to paint, it is
stated that "he would not comment on his legal status." Furthermore, El Sol
sanctions this behavior by not asking him (from the article: "officials at the
center do not ask.")

Somebody tell me what I am missing here. Do we have a country of law-abiding
citizens or do we have officials just turning a blind eye to our laws and
letting these illegal aliens do as they please? I weep for my country.

D. MANTHEY

White City

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK El Sol draws congrats, criticism

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer Jose Antonio Gonzalez Chavajay came from
Guatemala to work out of the El Sol center in Jupiter and send money back home
to family. He is making a living as an artist, selling some of his paintings for
upward of $500.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 26, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EL SOL, PAPER NOT THE PROBLEM; WASHINGTON IS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 206 words


I would like to respond to the May 18 letter-writer of "Blind eye to illegal
immigration is tragic," who is enraged at The Post for publishing an article
about an immigrant who is "obviously" illegal. I submit his rage is misdirected.
He ought to direct his rage at Washington for allowing our borders to remain
porous, not the local paper or the El Sol center in Jupiter. Isn't it ironic
that the people of Jupiter by and large are happy with El Sol, and the
protesters generally come from out of the area to express their rage?

I find it interesting that people often place emphasis on their point by saying
that these people are arriving in "America," as if Mexico, Central and South
America were in Europe or somewhere else. Last I checked, the United States
wasn't the only country in the Americas.

Why don't we begin a dialogue about U.S. policies in Latin America and determine
whether we have contributed to the abject poverty many of these American
countries suffer? He asks whether we have a country of laws or not. I say look
no further than the White House for the answer. He says he weeps for his
country. I weep for my country, too. The ignorance and hate still are directed
at the least of us. What a shame.

NELSON SOLANO

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIASCO

SECTION: OPINION & IDEAS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 471 words


Three weeks ago, federal immigration agents staged what is believed to be the
largest workplace raid in U.S. history when they detained 389 workers at a
slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa.

Besides its size, the Agriprocessors Inc. plant raid was extraordinary because
of how the government handled the cases. Typically, the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency tries to deport illegal immigrants as quickly as the system
allows. This time, however, the ICE filed criminal charges against the workers
-- mostly identity-theft offenses for using fraudulent Social Security numbers.

The government set up temporary courtrooms at the Waterloo fairgrounds, and
judges heard cases from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. for four days. Prosecutors offered the
immigrants, most of them from Guatemala, plea deals: five months in prison,
followed by immediate deportation and three years' probation in their homelands.
Because the document fraud charges could bring up to a 10-year sentence and a
$250,000 fine, nearly all the immigrants took the deal.

The workers went from assembly-line meat-cutting to assembly-line justice. Due
process was subordinate to expediency. Iowa has no federal prison, so taxpayers
not only will pay for incarceration but for sending the immigrants to other
states. Federal officials are trying to lock more illegal immigrants up, while
states are trying to get more of them deported out of jails and prisons to save
money. Consumers may pay more for meat products because of supply problems.

Beyond the trouble at the huge kosher processing plant, the raid showed the
disconnect between how the states and the federal government view immigration.
Eight years ago, Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack actively recruited immigrants to the
state because of labor shortages. Who will fill those jobs now? Even during the
recession, the industry has struggled to find workers. Americans don't apply.

According to The Des Moines Register, U.S. District Judge Mark Bennett's
comments to one group of defendants reflected the contradictions between the law
and the economy's need for workers: "I know you came to this country to work
hard and support your families. Unfortunately, the laws of the USA say that what
you did was illegal. But I want, on behalf of our courts, to wish you the best
of luck."

Two weeks ago, a provision died in Congress that would have allowed immigrant
agriculture workers temporary legal status and a chance at permanent residency.
That could affect Florida and the state's need for farm labor. Just two years
ago, Congress had a bipartisan plan for immigration reform and a willing
president. But anti-immigrant sentiment spooked Washington. The nation's
inability to agree on immigration reform means that more places like Postville
will suffer the calamity and indignities of the nation's dysfunctional policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IF WE GROW IT THERE, THEY (ILLEGALS) WON'T COME

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 173 words


We can ease illegal immigration and lower the price of gasoline with one
solution.

The United States could make agreements with Haiti, Guatemala, Mexico and others
to allow U.S. companies to grow corn, sugar, etc., in those countries. This
would supply jobs and food for them. Having more jobs in one's native country
would slow immigration because the illegals would rather stay home if they had
work.

Excess products could be made into biofuel and sold to U.S. companies. This
would be less expensive than growing in the U.S. because the labor would cost
less. A major criticism of the U.S. in producing biofuel has been wasting land
and food to feed cars instead of people. If other countries produce this
much-needed energy, it would eliminate criticism of us and bring those countries
into the world market.

We send billions out of our country now. Let's redirect it where it will do more
good. It is estimated that offshore drilling would take many years before
lowering gas prices. Biofuel could make a difference now.

J. HAMLIN

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SPARE US THEIR 'PLIGHT'

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 260 words


Re: "Immigrant relives deportation nightmare," (Aug. 16): Your headline suggests
that Aimer David Guillen was somehow wronged by being deported. There was no
mention of his immigration status until the last column on Page 7, where Mr.
Guillen states that he is undocumented. The reporter couldn't be upfront and
state clearly that Mr. Guillen had entered the United States illegally and had
three children. By the way, the reporter didn't mention the immigration status
of his wife.

The article is a thinly veiled attempt to justify illegal entry. But it is
completely fair to treat an illegal immigrant as a criminal, because he is. The
article quoted Mr. Guillen as stating, "The only problem is having a
Latino-looking face." No, the problem is that Mr. Guillen illegally entered the
country along with his wife nine years ago, had three children and used services
such as public schools that are paid for by citizens and legal immigrants. In
South Florida, there are millions of people with "Latino-looking" faces, but
most are citizens or are here legally.

The article stated that attorney Aileen Josephs fights for immigrants' rights.
In this case, she is fighting for an illegal immigrant. I had no idea that
Deception 101 was a course in journalism. The two reporters sought to justify
the "plight" of illegal immigrants through half-truths. The headline should have
read "Illegal immigrant relives deportation nightmare." It was insulting to your
readers to shroud the article as news. It should have been on the Editorial
Page.

CARL VALENTOVIC

Loxahatchee

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC: ILLEGAL IS AS ILLEGAL DOES

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 6, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUREAU SWAMPED WITH VISA APPLICANTS WILL REJECT HALF

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Businesses across the United States can expect some unwanted mail in the coming
weeks - thousands of rejected visa applications for high-tech foreign workers.

The U.S. bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services is planning to return
thousands of petitions after receiving more than 133,000 applications in two
days. That far exceeds the 65,000 yearly cap for the H-1B visas, which allow
highly skilled foreigners to work in the United States for several years. An
earlier estimate of 150,000 was revised Thursday.

High-tech companies say that the lack of visas will leave them without needed
workers and hurt their ability to compete globally.

"Because of arbitrary visa caps, we are now in the position of graduating
thousands of the world's top innovators, engineers and scientists and telling
them they cannot work in the United States," said Robert Hoffman, vice president
for government and public affairs at Oracle and co-chair of Compete America, a
coalition of high-tech companies.

Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for USCIS, said that the agency hired extra staff
to sort through the record 133,000 pieces of mail. She said it would take
several weeks to figure out exactly how many applications have been received,
because each piece of mail could contain several petitions.

All the applications received Monday and Tuesday will be entered into a
database, and 65,000 will be randomly selected for approval. In addition, 20,000
additional visas will be allotted for foreigners with advanced degrees from
American universities to stay and work in the United States.

"We have to be fair to everybody, and this is the best way to be fair," Rhatigan
said.

Applications not selected will be returned to the sponsoring companies along
with the application fee and will be "considered rejected," she added. Since the
agency is required to accept applications for only two days, those received
after Tuesday also will be returned.

The next opportunity to file will be April 1, 2008.

Ted Ruthizer, chair of the Business Immigration Group at Kramer Levin Naftalis &
Frankel, a law firm in New York, said that the record-breaking number of
applications surprised industry experts and proved there is a "huge demand for
foreign national professionals in a whole variety of fields."

"Everyone knew that there was going to be a crush of filings ... (but) nobody
expected this," he said.

Ruthizer said that the impact of the visa cap on U.S. companies is going to be
"worse than what most people think," and that the outcry will create significant
pressure on Congress to increase the number of visas.

High-tech companies are already lobbying aggressively for a higher H-1B cap, or
even an unlimited number that fluctuates with market needs.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

On the Web

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services: www.uscis.gov

Compete America: www.competeamerica.org

IEEE-USA: www.ieeeusa.org

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL REVIVED BY SENATE

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO and KEN HERMAN Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senators revived a major immigration bill Thursday after agreeing on a list of
amendments that would be debated and voted on as soon as next week.

In a rare joint statement, Senate Republican and Democratic leaders said the
bill would move forward.

"We met this evening with several of the senators involved in the immigration
bill negotiations. Based on that discussion, the immigration bill will return to
the Senate floor after completion of the energy bill," said Majority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev., and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.

The announcement was welcome news for the White House, which has mounted an
aggressive lobbying effort for the legislation.

Earlier Thursday, President Bush threw his support behind a measure that would
provide more than $4 billion for immediate security improvements as part of the
overall immigration package. The move was designed to assuage conservatives
skeptical of the legislation.

By dedicating the money, Bush said, "We're going to do our jobs of securing the
border once and for all."

Bush's comments came in a Washington speech to the Associated Builders and
Contractors, representatives of an industry that Bush said is among those that
depend on "foreign workers to fill jobs Americans are not doing."

The immigration bill had been tabled last week after a majority of Senate
Republicans voted against a procedural move to limit debate.

The measure would give illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship, create a
large guest worker program, and increase border security and workplace
enforcement. Many conservatives oppose the measure, saying it amounts to amnesty
for lawbreakers and is soft on enforcement.

Bush's speech -- which endorsed an amendment by Republican Sens. Jon Kyl of
Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina -- followed an appearance on
Capitol Hill by the president Tuesday as he tried to shore up GOP support for
the measure.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who supports the bill, said the president's pledge to
pay up front for security improvements was "very helpful" and could convince
more conservatives to support the measure.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

~ kherman@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOXAHATCHEE GROVES FILLS FEDS' IMMIGRATION VOID

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 446 words


Loxahatchee Groves is barely a year old but the town of 3,000 already has taken
on immigration problems that the federal government has been ignoring for
decades.

Last month, the town council approved a church group's plan to open a labor
center on Okeechobee Boulevard to give immigrant workers a place to find jobs
and services. The Acts II Worship Center plans to open the Buena Fe Day Labor
Referral Center on Jan. 2 in a double-wide trailer on the church's property.

The need for the center is obvious to anyone who drives on Okeechobee Boulevard
any weekday morning. Dozens of immigrant workers gather at the intersections
looking for jobs. A survey by Acts II found an average of about 100 men on the
road most days. Getting workers off the streets and into the center not only
eliminates potentially dangerous traffic situations but also will help reduce
crime. Immigrant workers have been frequent victims of robberies and assaults in
Loxahatchee. The center gives workers who have had minimal connection with the
community a place to engage with the town and find support.

The need for immigrant labor around Loxahatchee Groves also is obvious.
Employers at the area's many farms, construction sites and residential
developments can't find American workers to do the menial jobs that must be
done. While the federal government continues to ignore the reality that
immigrant labor is essential to the U.S. economy, Loxahatchee Groves is
responding honestly and progressively at the front lines of the real world.

The model for Buena Fe (Good Faith) is Jupiter's year-old El Sol Neighborhood
Resource Center, which also relies on a partnership with a religious group,
Catholic Charities. On Tuesday, El Sol graduated 55 more immigrants from a
popular nine-week English course.

Complaints are unfounded that immigrants don't want to learn English. In fact,
nationally, the demand for classes exceeds the supply. A recent study by the Pew
Hispanic Center found that nearly all Hispanic adults born to immigrant parents
in the United States are fluent in English. As with immigrants from Europe a
century ago, Hispanic families pick up the language through their children, and
it can take a generation to become fluent.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a politically moderate Washington think
tank, reports that 29 percent of Florida's nearly 3.5 million immigrants are in
the country illegally. Nationally, immigrants account for one in eight U.S.
residents, the highest level in 80 years. Nearly one in three is illegal.

Congress and the federal government keep finding new ways to ignore these
numbers. Jupiter and Loxahatchee Groves are looking for new ways to deal with
them.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LABOR CENTER RALLY LEADS TO ARREST

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


For the first time in its 15 months of operation, El Sol, Jupiter's Neighborhood
Resource Center, faces opposition to its effort to help migrant workers find
jobs.

On Saturday, a man was arrested after allegedly confronting one of about 20
protesters picketing outside its doors. Now a group called Floridians for
Immigration Enforcement says its goal is to continue demonstrating until it can
shut down what it calls "Jupiter's Illegal Alien Hiring Hall."

"That kind of (thing) needs to be stopped even before we start deporting these
people," said David Caulkett, a Pompano Beach resident and vice president of the
group.

It's a far cry from when El Sol celebrated its first anniversary this summer,
with town leaders heralding the resource center as a success.

There, laborers are matched with jobs. They can take English classes and are
offered legal services. And they're off Center Street, where they used to
solicit work, and away from the small residential neighborhoods that once
complained about unsightly crowds.

Caulkett was among the protesters waving signs Saturday morning at the corner of
Military Trail and Indiantown Road, where the center is located. At one point he
walked over to one of the center's entrances and began filming a man who was
walking out with day laborers he had just hired.

Randell Smith wasn't sure what was going on, he said Monday. He wasn't aware of
the protest.

What Smith did know, however, was that he was being filmed by a man he didn't
know and wanted to stop it, he said.

About 10:45 that morning, Jupiter police arrested Smith on simple battery
charges for allegedly pushing Caulkett as he filmed. Smith said Monday he wanted
only to take the camera from Caulkett, and that in the process the 59-year-old
protester fell.

"They didn't have a right to invade my privacy like that," said Smith, 51, who
was given a notice to appear in court.

Smith said he's not a frequent user of the center. The last time he had hired
workers there was about six months ago.

But now Smith says he'll never go back.

"I don't need the harassment," he said.

If more people share Smith's sentiments, it could have a serious impact on El
Sol's key functions: matching up laborers and employers.

Caulkett says that's the goal. His group started protesting Dec. 1 and 2, when
the Guatemalan Consulate's mobile unit was there to give out identification
cards and passports to the many Guatemalan nationals who use the center. After
that, the protestors decided to return every Saturday.

The plans are to randomly film anyone hiring laborers at the center and then
post the footage on the group's Web site, like it did with Smith, Caulkett said.

"They're trying to intimidate people by filming them," said Mike Richmond, head
of one of the volunteer groups that help run the center.

El Sol leaders will meet in the next few days to discuss the demonstrations,
Richmond said, and take their concerns to Jupiter police. For now the center
plans to keep things as usual.

"People should be allowed to have a peaceful demonstration, but I think they're
crossing the line when they start filming people and intimidating people and
confronting people, which has occurred," Richmond said. "We're concerned that it
could interfere with the rights of all Jupiter residents who use the resources
of the center."

- ana_ceron@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run South.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 CHARGED IN FATAL SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Two Miami men could face the death penalty in connection with an immigrant
smuggling operation in which one man died trying to reach shore in Palm Beach
last month.

Duany Jimenez, 24, and Maikel Soto, 28, were indicted Thursday on charges of
alien smuggling involving a death. They were arrested Nov. 15 after 35 Cubans,
including two toddlers, announced their arrival in the United States by pounding
on the door of a house about 2:30 a.m. One in the party, Carlos Alberto
Pons-Arias, 39, had died while swimming to shore in rough surf.

Jimenez and Soto are scheduled to be tried before U.S. District Judge Daniel
Hurley on Feb. 4.

Soto was arrested about five hours after the immigrants arrived, as he was
leaving Burt Reynolds Park in Jupiter. He was headed to Leighton Park in Palm
City, where he was going to help Jimenez take a 33-foot Hydrasport out of the
water, investigators said. Instead, Martin County sheriff's deputies went to the
park and arrested Jimenez.

An associate told investigators that Soto said he and Jimenez had ferried people
from Cuba three times without any problems.

~jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SKIPPER GUILTY OF MURDER, SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


After deliberating for nine hours, a federal court jury on Wednesday found a
boat captain guilty on 30 counts of murder, alien smuggling and narcotics
trafficking.

Rickey Thompson was indicted in connection with two smuggling trips from the
Bahamas to Jupiter Island in August and December 2006.

Three people -- Roselyne Lubin and Alnert Charles, both of Haiti, and Nigel
Warren of Jamaica -- drowned after they were ordered to jump overboard.

After the August trip, law enforcement officers recovered 12 kilos of cocaine.
Following the December trip, a large duffel bag containing 823 pounds of
marijuana, 1.8 kilograms of heroin and 1 kilogram of cocaine was recovered.

In February, co-defendant Leon Brice Johnson pleaded guilty in federal court to
one count of conspiracy to smuggle immigrants, three counts of immigrant
smuggling resulting in death and two counts of conspiracy to import controlled
substances.

Thompson's attorney, David Patrick Rowe, said his client would appeal. "It was a
very disappointing verdict for the defense," he said.

Thompson did not participate in the August trip and was unaware of any
wrongdoing during the December trip, Rowe said. "He is an illiterate fisherman
who has been cast as an Al Capone," Rowe said. "There was tragic loss of life,
but certainly the United States would be better off stabilizing the economies in
the Caribbean rather than prosecuting a fisherman."

According to prosecutors, the immigrants paid Thompson between $1,500 and $4,000
for the trips on his 35-foot boat and were assured that Thompson would drop them
off on the beach or in water no more than knee-deep. Thompson and Johnson were
arrested by Martin County deputies.

Thompson faces a maximum sentence of life in prison on the murder charges, 10
years to life on the drug charges and up to 20 years on the alien-smuggling
charges. A sentencing date has not yet been set.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Rickey Thompson (mug) Client 'is an illiterate fisherman who has been cast as
Al Capone,' says attorney, who will appeal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FEES FOR IMMIGRANTS ARE A NECESSARY BARRIER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 290 words


The Post criticizes the recent increase in immigration fees (applications for
permanent legal status, for citizenship and for work permits) from $995 to
$1,840 as a policy that will "drive more people underground" ("Higher fees at
the door, more illegal immigrants," Feb. 8 editorial). The result of these
higher fees, the editorial board argues, "will be that more immigrants who want
to play by the rules will be priced out of the game," thus increasing
(decreasing?) "the illegal population by putting a financial barrier around
legal status."

The Post's solution is to eliminate those fees by having the U.S. taxpayer pay
this bill directly, thus subsidizing the "legal" route to American citizenship.
But the paper neglects to mention that the "underground" (illegal) alternative
is far more costly, with smuggler (coyote) fees routinely exceeding $10,000, not
to mention the risks of being robbed or killed along the way, then having to
live, as an illegal in America, the constrained life of a fugitive here.

Latin America has about 600 million citizens, and, according to the polls, just
under 50 percent would move to the United States if they could. What keeps most
of them home? The high coyote fees -- that $10,000 that has to be raised by a
poor family to send one of its members to el norte, to generate a stream of
remittances (return on the investment) back home to the family.

If that financial barrier is removed by legalizing an open border, not to
mention having U.S. taxpayers subsidize the cost of bringing them in and
processing them, The Post will need to give some thought to this question: How
many of Latin America's 600 million are you prepared to welcome to America? All
of them? 300 million?

CHARLES MUELLER

Fort Pierce

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FIRE EMPTIES PRISONS;
INMATES, DETAINEES MOVED AS 36,000 ACRES BURN IN EVERGLADES

BYLINE: By ELIOT KLEINBERG and RON HAYES Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 993 words


A massive and uncontained wildfire in the Everglades on Monday prompted
officials to start moving hundreds of prisoners from two lockups in southern
Miami-Dade County.

When the Mustang Corner blaze moved within 10 miles of Everglades Correctional
Institution and nearby Krome Detention Center, officials ordered inmates and
detainees transferred as a safety precaution.

With other fires burning near Lake Okeechobee and in Brevard County, much of
Florida's east coast was under a perpetual haze Monday.

Residents of Miami-Dade and Broward counties were warned to stay inside because
of poor air quality. No health warnings were issued for Palm Beach County and
the Treasure Coast, but residents from Boca Raton to Fort Pierce should brace
for more acrid smoke today.

In coastal Palm Beach County, early morning drivers will need to be especially
cautious because smoke from the Lake Okeechobee muck fires may mix with dense
morning fog. Treasure Coast residents can expect continued aggravation as smoke
from Brevard County drifts south.

The Everglades fire, which began Wednesday, has consumed more than 36,000 acres,
including the only known habitat for the endangered Cape Sable seaside sparrow.

It posed no immediate threat to any structures, officials said, but U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement authorities decided to move 535 detainees
from Krome Detention Center, a federal lockup.

ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez would not say where the detainees would be
taken. Once they arrive, attorneys, consulates and relatives will be notified,
she said.

Meanwhile, an estimated 1,753 inmates from Everglades Correctional were being
moved to prisons in northern Florida, state Department of Corrections
spokeswoman Jo Ellyn Rackleff said. She declined to be more specific, but said
inmates would not be able to make outside contact for the next 48 hours.

State authorities also removed more than 250 employees from Everglades
Correctional, which holds inmates in all security levels except Death Row.

Firefighters had been concentrating on the northeast corner of the Everglades
fire, with seven helicopters and two planes trying to stop its advance toward
Tamiami Trail and Krome Avenue. But authorities said Monday afternoon that the
fire could not be contained, even though the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had
increased the flow of water into the park from water conservation areas.

Firefighters have been battling 88 fires from Brevard County to Miami-Dade
County.

They include six fires that burned more than 12,000 acres and destroyed homes in
Brevard County and five fires in the dry bed of the shrunken Lake Okeechobee
that have consumed 19,000 acres.

All are the offspring of a dry season that seems to be ignoring the calendar.

The average start of the rainy season is May 21, but no significant rainfall is
forecast for at least another week.

"We aren't seeing any activity in a swath from Naples to Palm Beach," forecaster
Dan Dixon said from the National Weather Service in Miami. Most storms have been
north of State Road 70, which stretches from Sarasota to Fort Pierce, he said.

The lack of rain to dampen the blaze likely will produce a stinky morning haze
as the Lake Okeechobee fires merge with a dense fog.

"The worst by far is going to be over the interior of Palm Beach County, but
some of that will probably work its way toward the coast by sunrise," Dixon
said.

"With the wind flow prevailing from the southwest, it looks like it's going to
stay warm and fairly dry" through the weekend, he said.

The lake, which dipped last week below the watermark of 10 feet, has dropped
nearly a quarter-inch in the past week.

The Keetch-Bryam drought index, which measures dryness on a 0-to-800 scale,
listed St. Lucie and Palm Beach counties at 517 and Martin County at 529.

Treasure Coast residents still are smelling smoke from last week's vicious
Brevard County fires, which are 80 percent contained.

St. Lucie County issued a ban Monday on outdoor burning. No outdoor fires or
fireworks are permitted unless the state Division of Forestry issues a permit.
The St. Lucie County Fire District will send extra firefighters and equipment to
every brush fire.

A similar ban already in effect in Martin County isn't likely to be lifted soon.
But officials said they expect a Memorial Day fireworks show to go on this
weekend because it's set off over water.

Some St. Lucie County hospitals reported people complaining of irritation and
breathing problems because of the smoke. Martin County reported dozens of 911
calls from people worried that a fire was nearby.

Staff writers Hector Florin, Sonja Isger, Sarah Prohaska, Jim Reeder and Jill
Taylor and The Associated Press contributed to this story.

- eliot_kleinberg@pbpost.com

- ron_hayes@pbpost.com

What to expect today

Glades: Lake Okeechobee fires will continue to bring smoke to the interior.

Coastal Palm Beach County: Some smoke from the Lake Okeechobee fires is expected
to mix with dense fog to cause traffic hazards.

Treasure Coast: Will continue to smell smoke from Brevard County fires.

No rain relief: Thunderstorms will be scattered and light. Some could bring
lightning that could start new fires. No significant rain is expected through
the weekend.

Sources: National Weather Service, Florida Division of Forestry

Haze covers region, threatens prisons

Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast are feeling the sting of smoke from
wildfires practically surrounding the region - the Mustang Corner fire to the
south, Lake Okeechobee fires to the west and Brevard County fires to the north.

SPACE COAST

Started: May 12

Acres burned: 12,505

Status: 80% contained

Effects: Treasure Coast residents still smelling smoke

LAKE OKEECHOBEE

Started: May 5

Acres burned: 19,000

Status: 50% contained

Effects: Smoke creating hazy rush-hour conditions

MUSTANG CORNER

Started: Wednesday

Acres burned: 36,000

Status: 20% contained

Effects: State prison and federal immigration detention center evacuated

Source: Florida Division of Forestry

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info boxes at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & B&W) & GRAPHIC (B&W)
 1. (C) Photo courtesy of NATIONAL PARK SERVICE A tanker drops water on the fire
in southern Miami-Dade County's Mustang Corner. The blaze moved within 10 miles
of a federal prison and detention center. 2. (C) TIM CHAPMAN/The Miami Herald A
bus transports some of the 1,753 prisoners from Everglades Correctional to
prisons in North Florida on Monday. The 250 employees at the prison also were
evacuated. 3. (B&W) Photo courtesy of NATIONAL PARK SERVICE No significant
rainfall that might help put out the fires at Mustang Corner or around the state
is expected for at least another week. 4. (B&W) BRENNAN KING/Staff Artist Haze
covers region, threatens prisons Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast are
feeling the sting of smoke from wildfires practically surrounding the region -
the Mustang Corner fire to the south, Lake Okeechobee fires to the west and
Brevard County fires to the north.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MOTHER WHO'S ILLEGAL ALIEN DESERVES NO COMPASSION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 133 words


I disagree with the letter urging compassion for the single Haitian mother who
was deported ("Have some compassion for single Haitian mother," Oct. 28). Marie
Michou Daniel was an illegal alien and, therefore, deserved to be deported.

If she were so concerned about being torn from her three children and leaving
them with their grandmother, she should have taken them with her. Where is the
father or fathers of these children who, because they were born here,
automatically became American citizens? I have nothing against people migrating
and living here, but I strongly feel that they must abide by our laws. I also
strongly feel that children born to illegal aliens living in the United States
should not, I repeat, should not automatically become American citizens.

ILEAN GUTHARTZ

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REACTION TO E-MAIL BRINGS CHANGE OF HEART

BYLINE: By MICHAEL C. BENDER Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


State Rep. Don Brown apologized for sending an e-mail last week that some of his
colleagues found offensive and racist.

Then the e-mails started pouring in.

"I see no need for you to apologize for using the term, illegal alien," wrote
William Fairbanks. "If they insist on not using the term illegal alien, may I
suggest, foreign criminal intruders?"

"I hope you don't back down on the 'Illegal Alien' debacle," Andrea Lowe wrote.
"If they are offended by that title, too bad! Please don't cave to political
correctness!"

The e-mail that started it all was one that Brown sent Thursday from the House
floor reminding his colleagues to pay their federal taxes, because "12 million
illegal immigrants are depending on you."

Some members of the Hispanic caucus objected and Brown, a 55-year-old insurance
agent from DeFuniak Springs, apologized by the end of the day. House Speaker
Marco Rubio said the e-mail was "offensive" and "in bad taste" but pointed out
that Brown apologized and "we move on."

But at a news conference Monday, Brown reversed course.

"I don't understand at all why they were offended," Brown said. "I see
absolutely nothing wrong with the e-mail."

He said he had not planned to lead a debate on immigration this year, but the
207 e-mails he received over the weekend convinced him.

"This is far more important to people that I thought it was," Brown said.

Brown clarified that he was sorry not for the e-mail, but that lawmakers were
offended. He then called for a study of the public cost of undocumented
immigrants in Florida and for a vote on a resolution to Congress to build a
fence along the U.S. border.

"It absolutely is a fair public policy question about illegal aliens," Brown
said.

Rubio was "preoccupied with other matters" on Monday and didn't have a comment,
his spokeswoman said.

Gov. Charlie Crist said Brown should "do what he thinks is right."

"Maybe he could put forward a bill that would allow for funding for such an
investigation and see if we sign it," Crist said.

At least one lawmaker critical of Brown's e-mail welcomed the study.

"I would love to see this study," said Rep. J.C. Planas, R-Miami. "The notion
that our taxes support undocumented workers needs to be dispelled."

One group, known as the Federation for American Immigration Reform, has
suggested that illegal immigration costs Florida more than $2 billion per year.

But Planas said illegal immigrants pay their fair share of sales taxes while
providing critical labor for several industries. The number of people using
special IRS identification numbers increasingly used by undocumented workers to
file taxes increased by 30 percent last year, according to The Associated Press.

"It's ridiculous to suggest that these individuals come to this country to feed
off the trough at the government's expense," Planas said. "They came here
because there are jobs."

Aside from the debate on costs, the choice of words is also an issue. Sen.
Fredrica Wilson, D-Miami, filed a bill this year that would remove the word
"alien" from state documents. Last year, the National Association of Hispanic
Journalists asked media to refrain from using the term "illegal alien."

"Many find the term offensive and dehumanizing because it criminalized the
person rather than the actual act of illegally entering or residing in the
United States," association spokesman Joseph Torres said.

Rep. Susan Bucher, a West Palm Beach Democrat and the first Mexican-American
elected to the Florida House, said she was more offended that Brown sent the
e-mail from his state-issued computer while the chamber was debating bills.

"One of the things that makes the legislature a colorful place is that its full
of people from all different backgrounds," Bucher said. "But some people have
less background than others."

- mike_bender@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LEGISLATURE 2007 Day 42 Session runs through May 4 Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Don Brown (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE ALL-AMERICAN ILLEGAL ALIEN

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 678 words


Like most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants, Pedro Zapeta lived a
life the Americans around him barely noticed.

He would have left the country without leaving a mark, just one more anonymous
alien, had the U.S. government not taken his life savings. Now, Americans are
noticing Pedro Zapeta.

More than 100 people from nine states have sent him contributions -- checks,
cash, single dollars -- as reimbursements for the $49,000 the government wants
to confiscate. The contributions, which now total more than $8,000, often come
with handwritten notes of encouragement.

"Hello, Bud," writes Bill of West Palm Beach. "This is not much, but I felt so
bad about the way the judge treated you and your money that a little bit is
better than nothing."

In January, U.S. District Judge James Cohn ruled that Mr. Zapeta had to
surrender all but $10,000 of the $59,000 he tried to carry on an airplane in
Fort Lauderdale because he didn't sign a declaration form. For Mr. Zapeta, it
was the savings from 10 years' work at Stuart restaurants.

"I thought just after the decision I would ask about 50 or 60 thousand folks to
send in a buck a piece," said a note with a contribution from Brooks Reese of
West Palm Beach, "but I didn't know how to get it started."

Mr. Zapeta had intended to use the first flight of his life to return to
Guatemala two years ago and start a business with his family. The 39-year-old
Mayan, whose native language is Quiche, had no idea that federal law required
him to declare cash amounts over $10,000. Customs agents found the money in his
duffel bag, and now the government wants to deport him without it.

"How many of us who are U.S. citizens would have known we couldn't take more
than $10,000 with us on a plane trip out of the country?" wrote Janet Fonk of
West Palm Beach. "Do we all read every line in the documents we sign when
traveling, even when we can speak English?"

Mr. Zapeta's attorney, Robert Gershman, is appealing Judge Cohn's ruling and
hopes to keep his client from being deported long enough to help make his case.
"It is unconscionable," Mr. Gershman says, "for the government to keep that
money."

A strange sort of celebrity has descended on Mr. Zapeta. His story has been told
on CNN, Univision and Telemundo. People have been Googling "Pedro Zapeta,"
surely the most famous Guatemalan dishwasher in the hemisphere.

"We let drug dealers and bank robbers off with far less penalties," wrote
another contributor. "I was outraged when I read the story."

There is no guiding precedent -- no rule of thumb -- for the penalty Mr. Zapeta
should pay for his oversight. Mr. Gershman has argued with the government for
months that his client should pay a reasonable fine, not surrender nearly all
the money.

"We value this hard-working individual who exemplifies all that is good in
mankind," said a note from Mary and John. "We enclosed a small check -- $20."

While Congress searches for a formula to make comprehensive immigration reform
politically palatable, Mr. Zapeta provides the living example for the type of
guest worker President Bush is proposing: He took a job no American wanted,
worked hard, paid taxes, stayed out of trouble and then bought his own plane
ticket home.

It is a most ironic injustice that the government that ignored him and the
country that benefited from his hard work decided to notice Mr. Zapeta and pull
out of the deal as he was self-deporting.

"As Americans, we have many opportunities for self-employment and
entrepreneurial endeavors," wrote Kenneth Duvall, owner of Duvall's Towing
Service in Lake Worth. "We should understand and applaud Mr. Zapeta's drive and
determination. I challenge other small business owners like me who have been
successful to share some of the fruits of our labor with Mr. Zapeta."

Mr. Gershman has set up a trust account through his office to hold contributions
to the dishwasher. They may not replace all his savings, but the notes stuffed
in the envelopes are priceless.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'NO WAY, JOSE' DOGMA DELAYS REFORM

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 636 words


Marco is an excellent student at Georgia Tech, one of the nation's premier
colleges of engineering and the sciences, with nearly a 4.0 GPA. He was
valedictorian of his senior class at a suburban Atlanta high school and earned a
perfect score on the math portion of the SAT.

Never mind those accomplishments. Letter writers were outraged because he is an
illegal immigrant.

Scores of irate readers of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution don't think he
deserves the perquisite of paying his college tuition at the lower rate given to
Georgia residents. "The AJC can write all the heartwarming, sympathy-craving
articles that you want, but I have no sympathy for any illegal alien who has to
pay the high out-of-state tuition to go to one of our state colleges or
universities," said one.

"You can try all you want to get us to feel sorry for the children who cannot
afford to go to Georgia Tech, but you cannot change the fact that these kids
should not even be here in the first place," said another.

Those sentiments expose the raw and visceral attitudes that have inflamed the
debate over illegal immigration, the harshly punitive ideology that would brook
no compromise. That "no way, Jose" dogma has fractured the Republican Party,
delayed badly needed immigration reform and propelled bad public policy --
including a Georgia law that has apparently forced the state's colleges to stop
granting in-state tuition waivers to a few students who are not legal residents.
(Ten states offer in-state tuition to illegal students with diplomas from local
high schools.)

But no matter how loudly and vehemently some proclaim their narrow-minded views,
they simply cannot be the basis for public policy. Though the diehard nativists
denounce as "amnesty" any proposal that offers a path to legalization to the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already here, the comprehensive
immigration reform bill now stalled in Congress had offered a practical
approach. It combined tough border enforcement with a path to legalization that
includes penalties. It's no easy forgiveness.

And if the bill doesn't pass, what's the alternative?

No rational society would propose spending untold billions of dollars and
imposing brutal tactics in an effort to round up millions of illegal immigrants
and send them back to their native lands

And no rational society in desperate need of engineers would make it difficult
for a young man like Marco to complete his degree. Dr. Shirley Jackson,
president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, has written of a "quiet crisis"
that stems from the nation's failure to produce enough college graduates with
expertise in math, physics, chemistry, computer science and engineering. The
nation's big technology firms are already doing all they can to scoop up
engineers and computer jocks from India, China and Malaysia.

Marco is practically American. He told AJC reporter Brian Feagans that his
parents moved illegally from Mexico when he was 4. They've lived in Georgia
nearly a decade, which would ordinarily grant him residency and make him
eligible for in-state tuition.

But a state law that will take effect July 1 apparently forbids granting
in-state tuition to illegal immigrants, so Marco's college tuition is expected
to increase fourfold. While some recent Georgia arrivals -- U.S. citizens --
have complained that they have to pay out-of-state tuition, too, they could have
paid lower rates in their home states. This is Marco's home.

After Mr. Feagans' moving story, the reporter received several phone calls from
readers, including Georgia Tech alumni, pledging help to ensure that Marco can
pay his increased tuition. Cheers to them.

Meanwhile, how many other Marcos are being wasted?

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BEAR NO RESEMBLANCE TO JEWS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 248 words


As a longtime reader of The Post, I was unpleasantly surprised by the article
"Potential deportees lying low" (July 16).

I was even more surprised to find that these potential deportees are comparing
themselves with the Jews under the Nazis. I must call attention to the fact that
the Jews mentioned by the potential deportee were citizens of Germany, Poland,
Hungary, etc. They committed the sin of being born a Jew in the time of a
madman.

On the other hand, these undocumented workers in our country are not being put
in concentration camps but live under the fear that there are very good chances
of having to return to their mother countries because they entered the United
States illegally. At last glance, the U.S. was not putting anyone into gas
chambers for being here illegally.

Also, the "potential deportees" said that they were paying taxes and into Social
Security. How? If they are here illegally, they do not have Social Security
numbers. How, then, are they paying taxes? Using someone else's? This brings us
to why they evoke no sympathy from me and many like me.

There are legal ways to come here and become citizens, and many people,
including my own grandparents, did so. But these people have stepped in front of
those who are waiting for permission to come here legally, and that is not fair.
If someone walked in front of you while you were waiting in line, you would stop
them just as we must stop these people from invading our country illegally.

ANN PROBST

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHALK ONE UP FOR FREE SPEECH

BYLINE: Sally Swartz

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 723 words


The June 20 demonstration on Stuart's Roosevelt Bridge was not Rachel Kijewski's
first protest.

In February, the 22-year-old Florida Atlantic University student joined South
Florida college students and homeless residents in Miami's Liberty City, trying
to draw attention to the region's affordable-housing crisis.

On May 30, Ms. Kijewski and a small group of area residents carried signs in
favor of proposed immigration reform. They gathered at a Roosevelt Bridge
counter-demonstration, while 150 demonstrators on the other side of the issue
held signs denouncing amnesty for illegal immigrants and calling for them to
return home.

On June 8, the Port St. Lucie resident biked to the gated entrance to the home
of FPL Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lewis Hay III, to protest Florida
Power & Light's decision to build a natural gas plant in a location that she
considered too close to a wildlife preserve.

So Ms. Kijewski, a member of Environmental Earth First and a Treasure Coast
group of activists called Project Awareness, understood the rules of peaceful
protest when she and two others took sidewalk chalk to the Roosevelt Bridge on
June 20. Rachel drew outlines of bodies, to illustrate the people who have died
crossing the Mexican border into the U.S. "Racism kills," she wrote. Not the
popular opinion among the send-illegals-home crowd.

A Stuart police officer told her that she needed a permit to write or draw on
the bridge or sidewalk. He asked her to stop. She refused. She asked for proof
that she needed a permit. He charged her with criminal mischief.

"I don't understand," Ms. Kijewski said. "It's chalk. I purposely used chalk so
it wouldn't damage the bridge." She thought that she was exercising her
constitutional right to free speech -- with an opinion that differed from the
anti-amnesty protesters in Stuart.

Ms. Kijewski was fingerprinted, spent four hours in jail and paid $400 bail to
get out. After trying to navigate the system without help, she called Don A.
Chinquina, who once worked as a public defender in St. Lucie County. Mr.
Chinquina, who now is running for public defender, and investigator John Milano
donated their services.

What he and the investigator did, Mr. Chinquina said, was "a lot of talking" to
police and the prosecutor's office. The police said the assistant public works
director had been sent out to clean the bridge. The public works official said
two guys had been sent out. But there was no work order and no names for the
guys. The assistant couldn't remember who had been sent out.

Prosecutors offered Ms. Kijewski a deal: Do 25 hours of community service, and
the charges would be dropped. Otherwise, Ms. Kijewski could face an additional
charge of resisting arrest without violence.

No deal, Ms. Kijewski decided. Mr. Chinquina prepared for a trial. There was no
damage to the bridge and no proof that the city had cleaned the chalk or spent
money to have it cleaned. California cases, Mr. Chinquina said, show that
writing on the sidewalk is protected by the First Amendment.

At the last minute, prosecutors dropped the charge because there was no evidence
that Stuart spent money to clean the chalk off the bridge.

Both Stuart police and prosecutors say the case is not about free speech but
about damage to public property. The officer, Stuart Police spokesman Marty
Jacobson said, had probable cause to arrest Ms. Kijewski for criminal mischief.
A judge and the state attorney's office at first upheld the charge.

"If she really wanted to express her opinion," Sgt. Jacobson said, "she could
hold up a poster board or a sign. Nobody objects to her expressing an opinion,
but she should do it in a different manner ... that doesn't offend the property
rights of others."

Though Sgt. Jacobson defends the arrest, Mr. Chinquina points out that Stuart
has no law that prohibits writing on public property with sidewalk chalk.

I'm with Ms. Kijewski. Her chalk message was an afternoon shower away from
oblivion. If she's a criminal, so are lots of 8-year-olds who decorate their
neighborhood streets and sidewalks.

Maybe Stuart can make something out of this embarrassing incident by advertising
itself as the safest city in Florida, since the police department has so little
to do.

Sally Swartz is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. Her e-mail address
is sally_swartz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DRIVER LICENSE JUST ENCOURAGES ILLEGAL ENTRY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 101 words


I completely disagree with the letters saying that it is a "compassionate move"
to give driver licenses to illegal aliens. An American driver license, in the
illegal alien business, can be referred to as a "breeder document." Once they
obtain one, illegal aliens can open bank accounts, apply for credit cards, etc.
It is a back door into the American economic life.

But foremost it is a reward. It is a reward after illegally entering the United
States. And if we keep rewarding illegal immigration, we never will stop it. In
fact, we will be encouraging more illegal immigration.

DAVID LANE

North Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:   LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 3, 2008 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HARRELL'S TERM-LIMITED SEAT ENTICES VETERANS, NOVICES

BYLINE: By TERESA LANE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1393 words


For the first time in eight years, the District 81 state House seat will be left
without an incumbent as elections near -- a fact that has not gone unnoticed by
the six people hoping to fill the void.

From veteran politicians to others who never have dipped a toe in political
waters, the field includes candidates from varied backgrounds who share some
common worries: escalating property taxes and insurance premiums, education,
immigration and health care.

How to improve those issues for Floridians? That's where the opinions differ.

Three Republicans are vying to replace term-limited Rep. Gayle Harrell,
R-Stuart, saying that the state has taken good first steps to address soaring
property taxes but must work to make the burden more equitable between long-time
residents and newcomers.

Two-term Martin County Commissioner Michael DiTerlizzi, who has amassed the
biggest war chest with $99,768 in campaign contributions, believes
non-homesteaded properties, including businesses, should be limited to yearly 3
percent property tax hikes like homesteaders. He stops short of offering to
recalculate existing values, saying the cap would apply only to future
increases.

He also believes that voters worry about the stream of illegal immigrants into
the Treasure Coast and the rising cost of caring for them.

"We need to work with our congressional delegation to better secure our borders
in Florida and throughout the country," DiTerlizzi said. "If an illegal alien
commits a crime, he ought to stay in jail and be deported only after our borders
are secure. Other illegal immigrants should be deported immediately."

Assistant State Attorney Jeff Gorman, who contributed nearly half of the $17,673
in his campaign treasury, would extend an additional property tax break to
first-time home buyers to even out the disproportionate tax bill for those
without a long-term homestead exemption.

Gorman also is worried about pay-for-play politics and would push to require
state and local lawmakers to list their monthly expenses and contracts awarded
on a Web site so the public can see who's getting work.

"That will lead to people understanding if there is corruption there," Gorman
said.

Slobodan "Danny" Jazarevic, head trauma surgeon at Lawnwood Regional Medical
Center and Heart Institute, would push for a higher exemption for all taxpayers,
including business owners. Jazarevic, who has raised $15,751 in contributions,
agrees with legislators who have accused local governments of spending
excessively as property values soared and tax coffers overflowed.

An immigrant from Croatia who was a U.S. Army colonel for 23 years and,
Jazarevic said he has a unique understanding of management and budgets and has
ideas on how to privatize health care.

"If you regulate the performance of the insurance companies, you build in safety
levels to keep costs down," Jazarevic said. "Health care is my expertise, so I
know how to guide it and I will get experts to help me."

Democrat Adam Fetterman, an attorney for the St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office
whose $89,786 war chest ranks second in the crowded field, says his top concern
is improving Florida's economy. He prefers to funnel future economic development
money toward creating jobs for working-class people and says existing firms
should be rewarded for expansion.

Although Fetterman lived outside District 81 in Tequesta until April, he
recently rented a house in Port St. Lucie's Tradition and said he's been
knocking on doors to gauge people's concerns. The District 81 seat covers much
of Port St. Lucie and northern and western Martin County.

"People are suffering, and jobs are on their minds," said Fetterman, who said he
doesn't believe the state has tackled tax reform properly. "This is a problem
that was decades in the making. Our leadership failed to adequately plan for
it."

His opponent in the Aug. 26 primary, former District 81 candidate Bill Ramos,
has raised $17,107 but declined to accept money from corporate special
interests, saying he prefers to deal with everyday people he hopes to serve.

Ramos, a self-employed mortgage broker who received 46 percent of the vote in
2006, said he backs economic development incentives for manufacturing and
blue-collar jobs and would work to end the FCAT in schools.

"My motto is more of a change, not more of the same," said Ramos, who wants to
create a nonprofit organization to insure the first $50,000 in homeowner
property claims. "Most claims will be covered by the nonprofit, and the
insurance companies will lower rates to get that little bit of business
available to them."

At 20, Green Party candidate Kristina Wright is the youngest contender for the
seat. She is a 2005 graduate of St. Lucie West Centennial High School who
divides her time between her parents' house in Port St. Lucie and Florida
International University in North Miami.

Green Party officials have said they don't know Wright or four other Green
candidates statewide and are suspicious that all five paid the $1,915.92 fee to
qualify for House and Senate races. Green hopefuls traditionally use petitions
to qualify, costing them little or nothing.

Wright stated in an e-mail that changes are needed to avoid "digging us deeper
and deeper into a hole."

She said she has no hidden political agenda.

"Yes, I have a lot to learn, but I'm very willing to make the effort," she said.

The Republican and Democratic primary winners Aug. 26 will face off against
Wright in the Nov. 4 general election.

~ teresa_lane@pbpost.com

Florida House District 81

Candidates are vying for a four-year post that pays $30,336 a year. The winners
of the Democratic and Republican primaries Aug. 26 will face Green Party
candidate Kristina Wright in November.

Adam Fetterman (D)

Personal: 37; graduated from Brandeis University and University of Miami School
of Law; married;one child.

Professional: Attorney for St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office since 1986;
previously in private practice.

Political experience: None

Issues: Create jobs for working-class people; incentives for existing firms that
expand; continued tax reform; changes in FCAT grading system; more neighborhood
schools and school choice.

Bill Ramos (D)

Personal: 49; home-schooled from age 12; married, five children, two
grandchildren; moved to Jensen Beach four years ago.

Professional: Owner/broker, Banyan Mortgages; Florida distributor for a recycled
rubber mulch and playground materials manufacturer.

Political experience: Ran unsuccessfully for the District 81 House seat two
years ago against incumbent Gayle Harrell; former volunteer for the Democratic
Party of Martin County.

Issues: A cleaner St. Lucie River; managed growth; freedom for teachers without
the FCAT; teacher salaries on par with national level; more economic development
incentives for mid-level jobs; insurance reform through a nonprofit company.

Michael DiTerlizzi (R)

Personal: 49; lives in Palm City; high school education; married; three
children.

Professional: Highway EnterprisesInc., president 1990-present; East Ocean
Properties, president 1996-present; Martin County Petroleum, president and sales
manager, 1982-90.

Political experience: Martin County Commission, 2000-present.

Issues: Immigration reform; greater tax relief for non-homesteaded properties;
continued Everglades restoration; greater promotion of online classes for high
school students.

Jeff Gorman (R)

Personal: 36, bachelor's in economics and political science from Penn State; law
degree from Catholic University Columbus; single.

Professional: Assistant state attorney in Fort Pierce.

Political experience: None.

Issues: Property tax breaks for first-time home buyers;year-round schools to
compete internationally; FCAT reform; fairer tax plan for those not covered by
Save Our Homes; monthly online posting of state and local governments' expenses
and contracts.

Slobodan 'Danny' Jazarevic (R)

Personal: 51; born in Croatia; doctorate of medicine, 1981, University of
Zagreb; married, one child.

Professional: Vascular and head trauma surgeon at Lawnwood Regional Medical and
Heart Institute; U.S. Army colonel, 23 years; formertrauma chief, U.S. Army
Hospital in Germany.

Political experience: None.

Issues: Health-care reform; increased homestead exemptions; tort reform to end
frivolous lawsuits; supportdrilling offshore Florida's coast with environmental
protections; end state's role in insurance industry.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5 C)
 1. Adam Fetterman (mug) 2. Bill Ramos (mug) 3. Michael DiTerlizzi (mug) 4. Jeff
Gorman (mug) 5. Slobodan Jazarevic (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH DAY LABOR RESOURCE CENTER APPROVED

BYLINE: By TONY DORIS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Opponents of the proposed day labor center on Lake Worth Road called it an
"illegal alien hiring hall" and said it would knock out senior shuffle boarders
and violate zoning rules.

Supporters said the proposed facility would provide a safe spot for workers to
find jobs and for immigrant and non-immigrant adults and youths to take classes
and get tutoring.

"We can't afford to have people getting hit by cars, or getting robbed on the
way home from work because they're getting dropped off at night at locations
that are not safe," said Tom Pearce, a member of the Palm Beach County Coalition
for Immigrants' Rights.

As of late Tuesday night, after hearing hours of impassioned pleas from dozens
of people on both sides, the city commission voted 3-2 to approve the $1-a year
lease to let a city-owned space be set up as an immigrant-oriented day labor
center.

Commissioners Cara Jennings, Jo-Ann Golden and Mayor Jeff Clemens voted in
favor. And Commissioners Retha Lowe and Dave Vespo dissented.

Many in the contentious audience of about 200 urged the commissioners to stop a
project they argued would promote illegal labor, take needed jobs from legal
residents and give them to people who don't pay taxes, while creating an
uninviting street scene prone to crime.

Others insisted that immigrants are less prone to crime than others and that
such centers provide a solution to roaming job seekers, while protecting them
from unscrupulous employers.

Annabeth Karson, a member of the immigrants coalition, noted that the day
laborers in some regards pay more taxes, because the homes they rent are not
eligible for homestead exemptions. She drew boos after urging opponents of the
center to "look at the fear under their anger."

In an interview before the meeting, Vespo said he opposed the center for
procedural reasons. A site should be chosen through proper planning and zoning
procedures, which would allow more public input, he said. The concept was fine,
but the location, east of Interstate 95 in a city facility used for shuffle
board, would crowd out seniors who have few other recreational areas nearby,
Vespo said.

"They've said that for every location," the immigrants' coalition's Pearce
countered.

One proposed location was nixed because opponents said it would hinder local
businesses; another was rejected because it was too prime a business site, he
said.

The center also drew opposition from a group called Floridians for Immigration
Enforcement which called on the city to avoid "enabling of illegal alien hiring
halls."

The group's Web site, in referring to Jupiter's recently opened El Sol Center,
had urged Jupiter residents to join in opposition to the proposed center.

Some speakers who addressed the commission said they were from Jupiter and that
the center had created an atmosphere of fear. Others said they had traveled to
the meeting from as far away as Cape Coral to urge against the Lake Worth
Center.

~tony_doris@pbpost.com

City Pulse

Our reporters take you inside Lake Worth and other city halls in our new blog.

PalmBeachPost.com/citypulse

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN, OBAMA AGREE ON TOO MANY ISSUES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 143 words


I am amazed that so many Americans are not aware of the many issues on which
John McCain and Barack Obama agree.

1. Both are for amnesty for illegal aliens.

2. Both support of the Law of the Sea Treaty, which would give the corrupt
anti-American United Nations control of all the world's oceans.

3. Both support NAFTA, which has taken thousands of jobs out of the United
States.

4 Both are against making English the official language of the U.S.

5. Both refuse to mention the major cause of inflation -- the Federal Reserve.

6. Both refuse to mention Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, the border patrol
agents doing their job, now in prison for more than 10 years for shooting an
illegal immigrant drug smuggler.

Fortunately we have another candidate, Chuck Baldwin of the Constitution Party,
so we do not have to vote for the lesser of two evils.

JIM COCHRAN

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GATES CALLS FOR HIGH-SKILLED JOB VISAS

BYLINE: By MARILYN GEEWAX Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates told Congress Wednesday the United States
should welcome an "infinite" number of high-skilled foreign workers to fill
engineering, computer programming and other jobs that otherwise would go vacant.

Employers face a critical shortage of high-tech workers, Gates said. "There is
only one way to solve that crisis today: Open our doors to highly talented
scientists and engineers who want to live, work and pay taxes here."

Gates told the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee that
Congress should fix the "terrible shortfall" in H-1B visas, which allow
well-educated foreigners to work in the U.S. for several years.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who invited Gates' advice on improving U.S.
competitiveness, agreed that "the U.S. cannot sit back and watch other countries
attract the best talent." Kennedy is working with Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., on
an immigration reform package that may include more H-1B visas.

The government issues 65,000 H-1B visas a year. The visas are taken quickly,
typically by tech workers from China and India. The cap had been as high as
195,000 but was allowed to recede after the 2001 recession.

Gates said even a return to the previous high in visas is inadequate because of
the growing demand for workers with backgrounds in math, science and
engineering.

Many U.S. engineers and immigration opponents hope to prevent more visas, saying
companies use foreign workers to drive down U.S. wages.

Gates faced no harsh challenges from the committee. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio,
said that ,in his state, which struggles with unemployment, business owners have
said "they just could not find the engineers or computer scientists they needed
to run their business."

Gates also called for improvements in high school education and for a doubling
of college graduates in math and science by 2015.

~marilyngcoxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 NAME/Staff Photographer Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates urges a Senate committee
Wednesday to 'open our doors.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BEMOANING YOUR LOT IN LIFE? TRY TRAIN JUMPING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 155 words


I was very interested in "Train jumping: a desperate journey." Nov. 12. It
really showed me how tough life can be for some of the poor migrant workers of
Central America. Some of our citizens who complain about their lives being so
tough really should read this article and compare lives. I'm pretty sure many of
these complainers have never had to risk their life to hop onto a moving train
just to get somewhere to find a job.

Many of these migrant workers don't even make it through to the United States.
However, those who do sometimes don't even make it past a couple of months
before being caught and sent back to Central America. In the end, after all that
risk-taking and train hopping, the adventure really isn't worth it unless they
are guaranteed a much better lifestyle than what is in store for them right now.

SEAN BERNARDEAU

Palm Beach Gardens

Editor's note: Sean Bernardeau is a Junior at Palm Beach Gardens High School.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 9, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WILL WE HAVE ENOUGH WORKERS?

BYLINE: By SHANNON O'NEIL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 741 words


As many in Congress, in the media and in homes across the U.S. debate the best
way to stem the flow of undocumented workers across the Rio Grande, they don't
seem to be aware that this perceived problem is becoming increasingly
irrelevant. In fact, the immigration concern of the future could well be how to
entice Mexicans and other Latin-Americans to cross into the United States in the
numbers we need.

Mexico is undergoing a demographic transition. According to the Mexican census
bureau, long gone are the days of families with six, seven or 10 kids. Instead,
Mexican women average 2.2 births -- only slightly above the average 2.1 births
that occur in the United States and that are considered the level needed to
maintain a stable population over time. Life expectancy in Mexico has increased
to 75 years, compared with 77 in the United States. With fewer births and longer
lives, by 2050, Mexico will become as old as the United States. In short, Mexico
is about to age dramatically.

In the past 10 years, nearly 5 million Mexicans have come to the United States.
They've done many jobs, especially agricultural and construction work, keeping
our food prices low and enabling the recent housing boom. The "pull" of
plentiful U.S. jobs and higher salaries has been an important factor in this
migration, but so has the "push" of Mexico's fast-growing, economically active
population, combined with weak job creation.

That situation is about to change. Job growth is a key component of President
Felipe Calderon's agenda in Mexico. But even without faster job creation there,
migration pressure -- the "push" -- will ease. According to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, the economically active population, which
grew by more than 1 million new members each year during the 1990s, now adds
just 500,000 annually. Over the next 10 years that means about 5 million fewer
new workers compared with the previous decade -- a number that's roughly equal
to the population of undocumented Mexican immigrants in the United States. This
suggests that demography might accomplish what border enforcement has not. In
the next decade, the tide of northbound Mexican labor likely will recede.

At the same time, the United States is on the brink of its own massive
demographic change. The first Baby Boomers are becoming eligible for Social
Security benefits, and over the next 25 years, many will retire. The next
generation, Generation X, with 15 million fewer members, doesn't have the
critical mass to fill their shoes, much less new job openings. The generation
after that, Generation Y -- now ranging in age from babies to college students
-- is larger, so it will partly alleviate the labor crunch. But Gen Y workers
are also likely to follow form and be better educated than their elders, which
will push them toward high-skill careers. Immigrants still will be needed if the
U.S. economy is to continue growing.

The immigration policy debate needs to grapple with these future trends. The
current demographic situation -- a high supply of Mexican migrants and high
demand for them from U.S. employers -- inexorably reflects the laws of supply
and demand. Sealing our borders won't change that now or help us adjust to
changing demographics and labor markets in the future.

Looking forward, the immigration system should balance the pressures of supply
and demand, not flout them. It must provide a flexible and legal valve on the
labor flow, one that will attract workers who soon will find that staying home
isn't a bad economic choice.

This would include an efficient guest-worker program that rises and falls with
labor needs and provides a potential path to citizenship. It includes a
dignified and fair process through which undocumented workers who are here now
could be legitimized, and it includes long-term planning with Mexico (and other
Latin-American nations).

This practical strategy is the only approach to immigration reform that enhances
the security of our international borders now and in the long term. It positions
the United States for continued growth. And it goes far beyond merely reacting
to the immediate situation with ineffective and ultimately counterproductive
barriers.

Shannon O'Neil, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, teaches in the
political science department at Columbia University and is working on a book
about Mexico-U.S. relations. She wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWER'S HOUSING FOR MIGRANT WORKERS ILLEGAL, JUDGE RULES

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 872 words


Ag-Mart, grower of the popular Santa Sweet grape tomato, "intentionally"
violated federal laws that guarantee clean, safe and licensed housing for nearly
2,000 of its migrant farmworkers at the company's farms in North Florida, a
federal judge has ruled.

The long-awaited ruling in the class-action lawsuit accused Ag-Mart of housing
workers during the 2001-02 growing season in three hotels that were not
licensed, were often crowded and lacked cooking and laundry facilities.

Federal and state laws protect migrant farmworkers in four areas: wages,
pesticides, transportation and housing.

U.S. District Judge Henry Lee Adams Jr. gave attorneys until next Thursday to
submit written arguments about how much Ag-Mart should pay in damages for the
housing violations.

Greg Schell, an attorney for the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project who
presented the workers' case during a two-day non-jury trial nearly three years
ago, said he intends to ask for $500,000 for each growing season -- the maximum
allowed by law -- and $200,000 to reimburse workers.

"This is important beyond Ag-Mart," Schell said. "Motels are being used
increasingly by employers to avoid the expense of operating a migrant labor
camp."

According to the ruling, Ag-Mart, through its crew leaders, failed to obtain
housing permits that require laundry and cooking facilities and set minimum
living-space requirements. In one hotel, three double beds were crammed into
rooms where six workers -- sometimes men and women who did not know one another
-- were assigned to sleep.

Ag-Mart argued that it should not be held liable because it does not control or
provide the workers' housing. Rather, it is the labor contractors who arrange
housing and oversee the workers. Ag-Mart was aware of the laws regulating
migrant farmworker housing but decided not to obtain inspections and licenses
because the company believed that commercial motels were exempt from the housing
laws.

Ag-Mart subsidized most of the room rentals, paying about $35 a night for the
workers' rooms at the Motel 8 in Jasper, the Howard Johnson in Jennings and the
Best Western in Lake Park, Ga. Only four workers were supposed to be assigned to
each room, each paying $25 weekly. However, some workers were charged higher
rates and others were forced to sleep on the floor when rooms were crowded with
more than four workers, according to the court ruling.

Other findings in the 30-page ruling include:

- One motel required workers to remove their shoes before entering their rooms
so as not to track dirt. Crew leaders then counted the shoes to verify how many
workers were in a room.

- Crew leaders had keys to the rooms and were allowed full access. At one motel,
crew leaders enforced a curfew.

- The motels had no or inadequate cooking facilities, leaving many workers no
choice but to buy $6 meals from a "taco wagon." Between the rent and food
expenses, "some workers received no net wages whatsoever for a work week," the
judge wrote.

"Although some workers complained about these housing arrangements, the
situation continued unabated," the judge wrote.

The ruling is not the first time Ag-Mart has been accused of housing violations.
As far back as 1999 the company received warning letters about housing and
worker safety violations at its farms in North Florida and New Jersey. Each time
the company agreed to comply.

In 2002, the U.S. Department of Labor fined Ag-Mart $4,250 for nine violations,
including transportation, housing and record-keeping violations at its North
Florida operation. A year later, labor inspectors in North Carolina found
hundreds of Ag-Mart workers in an unlicensed motel and dilapidated,
roach-infested homes.

Florida health and agriculture officials launched investigations in 2005 after
The Palm Beach Post published stories about three children born within six weeks
with serious birth defects. All of their parents had worked in fields run by
Ag-Mart, which harvests tomatoes in Immokalee, Jennings and North Carolina.
Investigators could find no firm link between pesticides and the babies' birth
defects.

Still, Ag-Mart was charged with 88 violations and fined $111,200 for pesticide
and worker safety violations. In March an administrative law judge recommended
that all but 12 violations be dismissed and the fine cut to $11,400.

North Carolina officials launched their own investigation in 2005 and cited the
company for 369 violations, issuing a record $184,500 fine.

In January, a judge also recommended that most of those violations be dismissed
and the fine reduced because investigators misinterpreted Ag-Mart's records.
Agriculture officials did not accept the judge's ruling and said they would
continue to pursue their case.

Ag-Mart did not return phone calls this week.

Schell, the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project attorney, said he expects the
company to appeal the judge's ruling in the housing case. The company also faces
a similar lawsuit about workers housed in unlicensed, crowded motels during the
2003-06 growing seasons.

"If this holds up, then Ag-Mart is looking down the barrel of substantially more
money," Schell said. "The operations have gotten larger each year. Last year
they were using nine different hotels."

~ christine_stapleton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2007



CORRECTION: In a May 17 story, The Palm Beach Post did not fully describe the
details of state decisions involving Ag-Mart's alleged pesticide and worker
safety violations. The story said Ag-Mart was fined $111,200 for 88 alleged
violations and that an administrative law judge recommended dismissing all but
12 of the violations and reducing the fine to $11,400. In fact, the $111,200 was
the amount of a proposed fine. After a hearing, Ag-Mart was found to have
violated the law and fined $8,400 on five counts. Ag-Mart agreed to pay $3,000
to settle five more counts, and the remaining counts were dismissed. The same
story said Ag-Mart was fined $184,500 for 369 pesticide safety violations in
North Carolina but that a judge had recommended dismissing most of them and
reducing the fine. In fact, the North Carolina case has not been resolved, and
the $184,500 represents the proposed fine. The story appeared on the front page.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LET 'INVADER' LEAVE WITH HIS EARNINGS

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 758 words


Since my colleague Dan Moffett first wrote about him 11 months ago, Pedro Zapeta
has become the best-known dishwasher in the United States. Indeed, "dishwasher"
is all you can call Mr. Zapeta without starting an argument.

Calling him an "illegal immigrant" starts the argument, but at least that
description is accurate. Mr. Zapeta left Guatemala a decade ago, traveled
through Mexico and entered the U.S. illegally to join the Guatemalans who send
word back with their remittances that there is work in South Florida.

It isn't glamorous work, of course, but Mr. Zapeta didn't care. He planned to
come for a while, earn as much as he could, spend as little as he had to, then
use his earnings as investment capital to start a business in Guatemala. He
worked at restaurants in and around Stuart, showed up on time, and stayed out of
trouble. As Mr. Moffett's first column about Mr. Zapeta noted, he's the kind of
guest worker the country wants.

Unfortunately, there is no guest-worker program for people like Mr. Zapeta. Now,
he's in a fix because he tried to fly home with his money and got stopped for
carrying too much cash, and the government is trying to take that money away
from him.

Zapeta not a tax cheat

Because of the attention Mr. Zapeta has received from Mr. Moffett's coverage,
many people now call him all sorts of things. Some comments are straight from
the Lou Dobbs Unabridged Dictionary of Xenophobia, which classifies people like
Pedro Zapeta as "invaders" who are stealing the menial, low-wage jobs that so
many Americans want their children to have.

One comment, though, is more shrill and off-base than others: Pedro Zapeta is a
big-time tax cheat. Since it's fun to dispel myths, let's dispel this one.

According to his attorney, the $59,000 in savings Mr. Zapeta tried to take with
him on a flight from Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport two years
ago represented a little less than half of his annual wages over a decade, which
averaged $13,000. And, yes, since he was illegal, he didn't file a tax return.

Under IRS rules, however, $13,000 is almost low enough to qualify for the Earned
Income Tax Credit, meaning that in some years the government might have paid Mr.
Zapeta if he had been a citizen. If he had filed a return on $13,000, according
to the IRS Web site, he might have had to pay about $1,300.

But Mr. Zapeta most certainly did pay taxes. He paid sales taxes on purchases.
He paid property tax, indirectly, through his rent -- unless he was renting from
the only landlord who doesn't pass on most property tax increases to tenants.

Also, like many illegals, he was paid by payroll check, which means that Social
Security taxes were deducted. His employers would have had to match that amount.
That money goes into Social Security's "earnings surplus fund."

Check out private equity funds

That "fund" has grown to about $300 billion. As things stand, the people who
paid into it -- illegal immigrants -- won't see a dime, but their money helps
Social Security's balance sheet.

This may be an argument against granting illegal immigrants legal status --
imagine all those extra beneficiaries -- but it shows that Pedro Zapeta isn't a
big-time tax cheat. Given his behavior, he would have paid if the system had
allowed it.

You want to talk tax cheats? Aim at the managers of private equity funds. They
invest billions, little of it their own money, in companies. In return, those
fund managers usually ask for 20percent of a company's profits, which in the
private-equity tax lingo is known as "carried interest." Those profits are taxed
at 15 percent -- the capital gains rate for stocks -- and not the 35 percent
rate that, say, mutual fund managers would get paid on their performance. That's
a legal form of tax cheating, and it costs the Treasury Department a lot more
than 10,000 Pedro Zapetas.

Some illegal immigrants join gangs and commit crimes. Some illegal immigrants
soak the public health system by going repeatedly to emergency rooms. But a
study 10 years ago by the National Academy of Science found that all immigrants,
legal and illegal, pay an average of about $80,000 more in taxes than they
receive in services. Since illegals are ineligible for so many services, they
don't lower that number; they raise it.

Maybe it's time for another study. Maybe then we'd know what to argue about.
Until then, there's no good argument against sending Pedro Zapeta home with the
money he earned.

Randy Schultz is the editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His
e-mail address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP EXAM GETS NEW QUESTIONS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Citizenship and Immigration Services unveiled new questions Thursday for the
test that immigrants must pass before becoming Americans.

The questions are designed to be "more profound" and go beyond memorization of
facts, said Emilio T. Gonzalez, director of the agency.

"When you raise your hand and you swear allegiance to the United States, you
really ought to know what you are swearing allegiance to," Gonzalez said.

For example, the current citizenship test asks immigrants to name the three
branches of government, and the new test asks applicants to explain "why" the
United States has three branches of government, he said.

In addition, the new questions ask applicants to define more concepts such as
"inalienable rights," "freedom of religion" and "self-government." The test also
includes some current events, such as asking what major event occurred on Sept.
11, 2001, in the United States.

The 144 new questions will be tested in a pilot program in 10 cities, including
Miami; Albany, N.Y.; Boston; Charleston, S.C.; Denver; El Paso, Texas; Kansas
City; San Antonio; Tucson, Ariz.; and Yakima, Wash. Applicants who volunteer to
participate in the program will be given 10 of the questions and must answer six
correctly. If they fail, they will be allowed to take the current test. The goal
is to narrow the test from 144 questions to 100 after testing it on 5,000
people.

Lynne Weintraub, an expert on English as a Second Language programs at the Jones
Library in Amherst, Mass., said the new test is a mixed bag.

On the one hand, she praised it for improving the wording on questions that were
poorly phrased on the old test and for including questions that touch on real
life, such as asking when federal taxes are due.

But she also said that some questions, such as one that asks applicants to
define the meaning of the "limited powers" in the Constitution, are complex and
will be difficult to teach to prospective citizens.

Fred Tsao, policy director at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, said the range of knowledge covered in the new test is broader than the
current test and will present a challenge for citizenship applicants and their
teachers.

In addition, he said a few of the questions seemed "off the wall," including
asking people the current minimum wage.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

A sample

Here is a sample of questions from the current citizenship test and the proposed
new questions, all of which can be found at www.uscis.gov:

Current test

How many stripes are there on our flag?

What is the Constitution?

What are the three branches of our government?

In what year was the Constitution written?

Name the amendments that guarantee or address voting rights.

New test

Why does the flag have 13 stripes?

What does the Constitution do?

Why do we have three branches of government?

What does it mean that the U.S. Constitution is a constitution of limited
powers?

What are 'inalienable rights'?

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ TAKES FLAK ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN and EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. Sen. Mel Martinez is the man-in-the-middle on one of the most explosive
issues in Congress: immigration.

As general chairman of the Republican Party, Martinez's stand has been
criticized by angry and vociferous Republicans -- including some GOP
presidential candidates -- who characterize the immigration compromise bill
worked out with Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., as "amnesty."

The Cuban-born Martinez, the only immigrant in the Senate, has been singled out
by pro-immigration groups for supporting a more restrictive measure than he
championed last year.

Martinez, Florida's junior senator, acknowledges he's been buffeted by both
sides, but said he's also heard from many people who have applauded his efforts.

"You have to have your own core of what you believe," Martinez said Thursday. "I
think this is a bill that solves the problem for Florida and the country."

Martinez said he's not surprised by the extent and bitterness of the criticisms.

"It's understandable when you have a bipartisan solution there are going to be
extremists" on both sides of the issue.

Republicans have been the most outspoken against the bill, and its supporters
have been booed at GOP meetings. Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney,
Tom Tancredo and Duncan Hunter, have criticized it.

And Rep. Tom Feeney, who like Martinez is a Republican from Orange County, calls
the proposal an "immigration amnesty sellout."

Immigration reform supporters have also been unhappy. The Coalition for
Comprehensive Immigration Reform, which includes the SEIU Florida Healthcare
Union, took out newspaper ads this month urging Martinez to remember his
immigrant past.

"Instead of backing a bipartisan approach like last year, he's backing a White
House proposal that would make reform unworkable not only for immigrants, but
for the nation," Clarissa Martinez, campaign manager for the coalition and no
relation to the senator, said at the time.

Despite the high-decibel criticism, Martinez said he's seen polls and is
confident that a majority of Americans want a comprehensive immigration solution
that includes both tougher border control and a means of legitimizing the
roughly 12 million immigrants who are in this country illegally.

Tamar Jacoby, an immigration expert with the conservative Manhattan Institute in
New York who supports the Senate bill, said Martinez is doing "an extremely
difficult balancing act."

"I call him the center of gravity on the Republican side. ...He's somebody who
knows that we need a more sensible policy and yet he also is besieged by that
wing of the party that doesn't recognize that," she said.

~ larryl@coxnews.com

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 16, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH ASKS HISPANICS TO BACK IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By KEN HERMAN and EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush urged Hispanics on Friday to lobby hard for a major immigration
bill, a day after it was revived in the Senate.

"Each day our nation fails to act, the problem only grows worse," he said at the
annual National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast. "I will continue to work closely with
members of both parties, to get past our differences, and pass a bill I can sign
this year."

Bush's comments came after Senate leaders announced a deal Thursday that would
allow the legislation to come back to the Senate floor as early as next week.

But the fate of the measure is uncertain. Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.,
said Friday that he "insisted on a process to prevent endless debate and get the
bill through the Senate," but he added that he hoped congressional Republicans
would not "stall" the legislation.

Reid also endorsed an amendment that would provide more than $4 billion for
immediate security improvements as part of the immigration package. Bush backed
the amendment Thursday, hoping to assuage conservatives who are skeptical of the
overall bill.

The legislation would give illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship, create a
large guest worker program and increase border security and workplace
enforcement. Many conservatives oppose it, saying that it amounts to amnesty for
lawbreakers.

The main Democratic sponsor of the bill, Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts,
expressed optimism at the prayer breakfast.

"We have to come together to try and find common ground. The idea of failure is
not an option," he said.

Sen. Mel Martinez, a Florida Republican and the only immigrant in the Senate,
said that the bill still faces a tough road.

"We've made great progress. We're at the cusp. We've almost got it out of the
Senate, and then it will have to go to the House. The battle is long and the
battle is hard," he said. "But I know that with your spirit and your faith that
we will continue and we will prevail and persevere."

Perhaps in a preview of what the immigration bill could face in the House, that
chamber passed an amendment Friday that would ban cities with so called
"sanctuary" policies designed to welcome legal and illegal immigrants from
receiving certain homeland security money. The amendment targets policies that
discourage local police from sharing information with the federal government
about illegal immigrants.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who sponsored the amendment, said the 234-189 vote
on the amendment to a homeland security bill should serve as "a warning sign" to
the White House and supporters of the immigration measure.

"If that legislation makes it to the House, it is in serious trouble," said
Tancredo, who is running for the GOP presidential nomination.

At the breakfast, Bush was introduced by the Rev. Luis Cortes Jr., president of
Esperanza USA, a network of Hispanic religious organizations that work on social
and economic issues.

Cortes thanked Bush for his "humanitarian approach to the plight of millions of
people" who he said are guilty of nothing more than wanting the opportunities
that America has provided others through the last two centuries.

Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean offered a political message
at the breakfast, touting his party's links to Hispanics and criticizing
Republicans who oppose the Bush-backed immigration bill.

"Immigration reform has shed light on the differences in the parties' values,"
he said. "While there have been those on the other side who have scapegoated and
divided -- scapegoated Americans and divided us -- we believe that there is more
that unites us than divides us."

Dean said "there are too many in the other party who continue to stand in the
way" of immigration reform.

According to a Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll released this week, 51 percent
of Hispanics identify themselves as Democrats and 21 percent identify themselves
as Republicans.

The poll also found that 27 percent of Hispanics approve of Bush's handling of
the economy, compared to 41 percent of whites. The survey has a margin of error
of 3.1 percent.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 RON EDMONDS/The Associated Press President Bush vows to work with members of
both parties on the immigration bill, which would establish a large guest worker
program and increase border security.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STUDY: FLA.IMMIGRANTS NEED ENGLISH HELP

BYLINE: By IAN LYE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida ranks among the states whose immigrants need the most help in improving
their English language skills, a report released Tuesday found.

The study also called for overhauling the ways in which states pay for such
programs, which it said are inadequate for meeting immigrants' English
instruction.

The Migration Policy Institute, a Washington D.C.-based think tank that studies
the global movement of people, conducted the study using census-based estimates
of the number, education attainment and English skills of immigrants in America.

With immigration approaching record levels in recent years, English instruction
classes across the country are full and have waiting lists of thousands of
people.

In Florida alone, the institute said there are about 317,000 adult lawful,
permanent residents and another 327,000 illegal immigrants ages 17 and older who
have yet to achieve a level of English proficiency necessary for integrating
into American civic society.

According to statistics reported by the Census Bureau in its 2005 American
Community Survey last year, the number of foreign-born people in the United
States reached nearly 36 million in 2005, accounting for about 12 percent of the
population.

"We're not just talking about the vague notion that there are backlogs, but we
have harder numbers here," said Michael Fix, a co-author of the study.

"We strongly believe that it's not just a matter of pouring new money into the
system," he said. "That's not to say that there are no successful programs, but
there are a number of systemic issues that need to be addressed by reform."

Fix said such problems with the system include low student retention rates,
uneven teaching quality, varying accountability standards and uneven spending
among states.

According to the report, state and local agencies in Florida, together with
private spending, contribute eight dollars for every dollar received in federal
funding, a ratio that led all the states surveyed. In contrast, Kansas, Nebraska
and Texas only spend about 30 cents for every dollar they receive in federal
support.

"The systems differ from state to state, and by my understanding, the state of
Florida, by comparison to other states, does fairly well," said Greg Smith, the
executive director of the Florida Literacy Coalition, a group that advocates
adult and family literacy.

"That said, Florida certainly has a very high number of new immigrants and
immigrants in general," Smith added, alluding to the magnitude of the task
facing local and state officials in finding sufficient funding to meet the
English instruction needs of its burgeoning immigrant population.

~ ilye@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECENT HISPANIC ARRIVALS EARN MORE

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Recently arrived Hispanic immigrants are earning more money than they did about
a decade ago, according to a study released Tuesday.

The percent of recent arrivals at the lowest end of the pay scale -- earning
less than $8.50 an hour -- has dropped from 64 percent in 1995 to 50 percent in
2005, said the report by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group
in Washington, D.C.

These immigrants are older and more educated than those a decade earlier, and
more likely to work in construction, which pays a higher wage than agriculture,
where previous immigrants were more likely to settle, the study said.

A lot of the increase "has to do with construction ... the premier employer of
these workers," said Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for research at the Pew
Hispanic Center and author of the report.

Despite the advances, many foreign-born Latinos remain at the low end of the pay
scale.

The total of Hispanic immigrants who earn $8.50 an hour or less increased by 1.2
million from 1995 to 2005, the study said.

Still, all Latino immigrants -- recent arrivals and those who have been in the
United States for long periods of time -- fared better over the 10-year period,
according to the report.

Among all foreign-born Hispanics, the percent of workers earning less than $8.50
an hour decreased from 42 percent in 1995 to 36 percent in 2005.

In addition, the study found that employment growth for foreign-born Hispanics
was fastest in the "high-middle range" of wage distribution, which the study
determined as workers who earn an average of $19.23 per hour.

The number of Hispanics in that category increased by 112 percent from 1995 to
2005, the study said.

The upward mobility results partly from the strength of assimilation, Kochhar
said.

"The longer you have been here, the more likely you are to be middle wage or
high wage," he said. "Assimilation is real, it works."

The study was based on data from the U.S. Census Bureau, which does not identify
whether immigrants are legal.

Therefore, the term "immigrants" includes all foreign-born individuals. Recently
arrived immigrants include those who have been in the United States less than
five years.

~emoscoso@coxnews.com

Pay rising

The study also found:

- There was a large drop in the percent of Mexican-born workers in the lowest
end of the pay scale:From 48 percent in 1995 to 40 percent in 2005.

- Thirty-three percent of immigrants from Central America, 26 percent of
immigrants from the Caribbeanand 23 percentfrom South America earned less than
$8.50 an hour in 2005.

- Latino workers accounted for 13 percent of the overall labor force in 2005, up
from 6 percent in 1980.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LATEST CITIZENSHIP TEST STRESSES UNDERSTANDING

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Do you know the name of the current speaker of the House? Or why the U.S. flag
has 13 stripes? Or the role of the president's Cabinet?

If you want to become a U.S. citizen, you must learn the answers to these and 97
other questions in a new citizenship test unveiled Thursday by the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Emilio Gonzalez, director of the agency, said the new questions are designed to
be more profound and test knowledge of basic civic concepts essential to being
an American.

"The questions are more about meaning and understanding than rote memorization,"
he said.

In a pilot program in 10 cities, 142 questions were tested by volunteer
immigrant applicants. Several questions ask for more meaningful answers than the
current exam. For example, the old test asks, "What country did we fight during
the Revolutionary War?" The new test changes the question to, "Why did the
colonists fight the British?"

In the pilot program, 92.4 percent of immigrants passed the citizenship test on
the first try. Currently, the average is 84 percent.

Fred Tsao, policy director at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights and an expert on naturalization tests, said he was disappointed with the
new questions because they included more complex concepts that are hard to
teach.

He said the new test -- and the recent fee hike for citizenship applications --
constitute "a significant obstacle" to many immigrants obtaining U.S.
citizenship.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT GANGS TARGETED IN STING, OVER 1,300 ARRESTED

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post--Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A four-month nationwide "enforcement surge" against immigrant gangs netted more
than 1,300 arrests in 23 cities, federal officials said Tuesday.

Some of the suspected gang members were charged with violent crimes such as
assault, kidnapping and human smuggling, but most -- 939 -- were detained for
immigration violations and put into deportation proceedings.

Julie Myers, head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the
arrests were part of a joint effort with state, local and international law
enforcement agencies to combat the growing problem of violent transnational
street gangs.

"We've arrested some of the worst of the worst," said Myers, at a news
conference at Immigration and Customs Enforcement headquarters.

Most of the alleged gang members were in the United States illegally and about
one fourth had violent criminal histories, Myers said.

Several of the arrests were in large cities such as New York, which had the
highest number, 205. But many were also arrested in smaller urban areas,
including 34 in Boise, Idaho.

South Florida was one of the hot spots for the operation.

"Lots of arrests occurred in Palm Beach County," said Barabara Gonzalez,
spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Miami. "We had 162
arrests in the tri-county area, including Broward and Miami-Dade, and they were
pretty equally distributed among the three counties. The 162 made us second in
the nation after New York."

She said among those individuals arrested in Palm Beach County were members of
two of the largest "transnational" Latin gangs -- MS-13 and Sur-13 -- but also
members of Top Six, which is primarily a Haitian gang that is thought to have
many members in Palm Beach County.

"Palm Beach County has a gang problem, but we have received tremendous
cooperation from law enforcement agencies, particularly the Palm Beach County
Sheriff's Office there, and we are getting these individuals off the streets,"
she said.

The arrested individuals allegedly belong to several violent gangs, including
MS-13, also known as Mara Salvatrucha, a Central American gang known for brutal
attacks. Other targeted gangs included the Latin Kings, the Bloods, the Crips,
and a group called "Wetback Power," officials said.

At the news conference four posters displayed photos of arrested individuals,
charged with crimes including child molestation and assault with a deadly
weapon.

The enforcement push was part of a larger effort dubbed Operation Community
Shield, which has resulted in the arrests of more than 7,600 members since 2005,
officials said.

Staff writer John Lantigua contributed to this story.

~ emoscosocoxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HISPANICS MASTER ENGLISH IN GENERATION, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly all Hispanic adults born in the United States of immigrant parents are
fluent in English, a report released Thursday found.

The study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center points to "a dramatic increase
in English-language ability from one generation to the next" and seems to
counter concerns that current immigrants are not assimilating as quickly as
those in the past.

Less than one-third of foreign-born Hispanic immigrants report they speak
English "very well" or "pretty well." But 91 percent of their U.S.-born children
say they are fluent.

D'Vera Cohn, co-author of the study, said that Hispanics are following a pattern
of assimilation similar to that of previous newcomers, with the first generation
speaking little English, the second generation having one foot in each language
with greater English proficiency, and the third generation virtually letting
Spanish fade "into the background."

The study also found, however, that 28 percent of Hispanic immigrants said they
speak only Spanish in the workplace, signaling that in some enclaves in the
United States English is infrequently spoken.

It also found that 46 percent of Hispanics who are naturalized citizens said
they spoke English "not at all" or "just a little."

Cohn said Latino immigrants are more likely to speak English well and to use it
often if they are highly educated, arrived in the United States as children, or
have spent many years in the country.

The report also found:

- Forty-six percent of adult Hispanics said language was the biggest cause of
discrimination against them. Latinos cited language skills more frequently than
immigration status, income, education or skin color as an explanation for
discrimination against them.

- Puerto Ricans and South Americans were the most likely to say they are
proficient in English and Mexicans were the least likely to say so. Puerto
Ricans are U.S. citizens, but were counted with immigrants in the study.
Seventy-one percent of Mexican immigrants said they speak English just a little
or not at all. Cohn said this relates to the lower income and education level of
Mexican immigrants, compared with all Hispanics.

- College education is closely tied to the ability to speak and read English.
Among Hispanic immigrants with college degrees, 62 percent said that they speak
English "very well." That number drops to 34 percent for those with high school
diplomas and 11 percent for those who did not complete high school.

The report analyzed six Pew Hispanic Center surveys conducted since 2000 that
included more than 14,000 Latino adults.

emoscoso@coxnews.com

Florida's immigrant population growing

Nearly 3.5 million immigrants live in Florida, according to a report by the
Center for Immigration Studies that says at least 1million of those immigrants
are here illegally. The center advocates strict immigration limits. The number
of immigrants is up from 2.9 million in 2000. According to the report, the state
has one of the fastest-growing immigrant populations. The data was collected by
the Census Bureau in March.

-- The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRANTS EXPECTEDTO SWELL U.S. POPULATION

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. population will reach 438 million in 2050, with 82 percent of the
growth coming from immigrants and their U.S.-born descendants, a study released
Monday projected.

During the next half-century, the Latino and Asian populations will triple and
the non-Hispanic white population will grow by 4 percent, said the study by the
Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan group in Washington.

Hispanics, already the nation's largest minority group, will make up 29 percent
of the population by 2050, compared to 14 percent now, it said.

Non-Hispanic whites will make up 47 percent of the population, blacks will
account for 13 percent and Asian-Americans 9 percent.

Altogether, nearly one in five Americans will be foreign-born in 2050, compared
with one in eight in 2005.

The total population projection is higher than a previous calculation by the
U.S. Census Bureau, which projected 420 million people by 2050.

Jeffrey Passel, a senior research associate at the Pew Hispanic Center who
co-authored the report, said that it assumes larger immigration projections than
the government calculation.

The Pew study projects that immigration will add 117 million people to the U.S.
population by 2050. Of those, 67 million will be the immigrants themselves and
50 million will be their American-born children and grandchildren. Between 2020
and 2025, the foreign-born share of the population will surpass the peak during
the last great wave of immigration a century ago, it projects.

The study does not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants. The Census
Bureau, which provides information for such studies, does not ask people their
legal status.

The Pew study also looked at the nation's "dependency ratio" - the number of
children and elderly compared with the number of working-age Americans.

This figure is projected to change dramatically because of the aging Baby
Boomers, the generation of Americans born between 1946 and 1964.

In 2005, there were 59 children and elderly people for every 100 working age
adults. In 2050, the number will increase to 72 dependents for every 100
working-age adults.

Immigrant advocates said that immigrants will be needed to support the growing
elderly population.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POPE LIKELY TO TARGET HISPANICS, URGE COMPASSION FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SHELLEY EMLING Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: ROME


Hispanic Catholics in the United States eager for the arrival of Pope Benedict
XVI today will be seeking both emotional and political support.

And they're likely to get it.

"I think the pope is very aware that Hispanic Catholics are really the lifeblood
of American Catholicism," said the Rev. Allan Deck, head of the U.S. Conference
of Catholic Bishops Secretariat of Cultural Diversity in Washington.

Many saw the pope's appointment last year of Daniel DiNardo, archbishop of
Galveston-Houston, as an acknowledgment of the growing Latino presence in the
U.S. Catholic church.

"I wouldn't be surprised if the pope said something about immigration reform
when he's in the United States," Deck said, calling it an issue "near and dear"
to Hispanic hearts.

Besides meeting with President Bush and addressing the United Nations during a
six-day visit that begins today, the pontiff is expected to pray the rosary with
hundreds of immigrants from Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America at the
airport in New York before heading back to Rome on Sunday.

The growing Hispanic church community is hoping the event - and the entire papal
visit - will send a message of tolerance toward immigrants in America.

This, church leaders say, is especially important in the midst of a presidential
campaign.

Compassionate treatment of immigrants is an issue Catholics care deeply about as
they seek to protect the Hispanics that are bolstering church membership
numbers.

A recent survey by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that 24
percent of all Americans are Catholic. But foreign-born Catholics make up a
growing portion of church membership; more than 46 percent of all foreign-born
residents are Catholic.

Overall, Hispanics make up one-third of the country's 67 million Catholics, with
the growing number countering a general decline in the number of practicing
non-Hispanics.

"The Catholic church in the United States is predominantly brown and speaks
another language," said Mario Paredes, who heads the board of directors at the
San Antonio-based Catholic Association of Latino Leaders.

CALL was formed in January to unite Spanish-speaking Catholic leaders in the
fields of finance, business, politics and education.

Certainly the influence of Hispanics is being felt in the larger Catholic
community.

In 1970, Paredes said, the U.S. had only one Hispanic bishop and 220 ordained
Hispanic priests. Today, there are at least 33 Hispanic bishops and more than
1,500 Hispanic priests.

About 4,000 parishes, nearly a fifth of the U.S. total, now offer Masses in
Spanish.

"These are signs not only of growth but also of more integration and
participation," Paredes said.

In light of this, Paredes believes the pope will wish to share certain messages
during his visit.

"I believe that these messages mostly will be addressed to the core values of
our society," he said. "They will have to do with respecting the dignity of
every human person."

Pope Benedict has honed a message that promotes the inherent dignity of all
people while also emphasizing the importance of keeping families intact. These
issues resonate with Hispanic Catholics - and thus with the U.S. Catholic church
as a whole.

The Rev. Robert Gahl, a priest who left Wisconsin for Rome more than 15 years
ago, said many Hispanic immigrants have fallen out of religious practice since
settling in the U.S.

"The pope's very presence in the United States will bring together Christians
and bring many Hispanics back into the fold of religious practice," he said.

- semling@coxnews.com

Trip highlights

Key public events in Pope Benedict XVI's first U.S. visit since his election in
2005:

Washington

Wednesday: Meet with President Bush and first lady Laura Bush at White House;
prayer service with U.S. bishops, Basilica of the National Shrine of the
Immaculate Conception.

Thursday: Celebrate Mass at Nationals Park; address presidents of Catholic
colleges and universities; meet with officials of other faiths.

New York

Friday: Speak at the United Nations; make brief visit to synagogue near U.N.;
ecumenical prayer service at historically German parish.

Saturday: Mass for Catholic clergy at St. Patrick Cathedral.

Sunday: Visit ground zero, site of the Sept. 11 attacks; celebrate Mass at
Yankee Stadium.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS RENEWS IMMIGRATION DEBATE

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate dives back into the immigration debate this week, with a possible
vote looming on a measure that would give temporary visas to farm workers who
are in the United States illegally.

The measure, sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is billed as an
emergency relief for farmers facing a labor shortage.

"Agriculture needs a consistent workforce. Without it, they can't plant, they
can't prune, they can't pick, and they can't pack," Feinstein said last week
after the measure was approved by a key committee. "The time has come for
Congress to step up to the plate."

She said the measure is needed to stop more of them from moving operations to
other countries.

"We need this legislation because in the last year, 13,280 farms in the United
States have shut down and others have moved their operation to Mexico," she
said.

The bill would allow farm employees who have worked in the United States over
the past four years to work legally for the next five. It is capped at 1.35
million participants.

The future of the measure is uncertain. It was approved by the Senate
Appropriations Committee as an amendment to a large spending bill for the Iraq
war.

The House version, passed by committee, does not include a similar amendment,
making it unclear whether it would survive to a final bill.

In addition, procedural maneuvers in the Senate could be used to block a vote on
this and other amendments to the broader Iraq legislation.

Groups that oppose illegal immigration are lobbying lawmakers to kill the
measure.

"As far as we are concerned, it is an amnesty," said Rosemary Jenks, director of
government relations of Numbers USA, a group that supports lower levels of
immigration.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., said on the Senate floor Monday that the Feinstein
amendment and other immigration-related amendments are an effort to rush through
a "back-door amnesty" without full evaluation by lawmakers and the American
people.

- emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'KIDNAPPING'OF 33 CUBANS APPEARS TO BE RESCUE SCHEME

BYLINE: By JEREMY SCHWARTZ and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 940 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Shortly after night fell on a remote highway in far southern Mexico, a
government bus carrying 33 detained Cuban immigrants was hijacked last week by
hooded gunmen, who seized the Cubans before melting into the jungle.

Just who took the Cubans remains a mystery. But after a week of fruitless
searching, at least 18 of them appeared in good health at a U.S. border crossing
in Hidalgo, Texas, Mexico's Attorney General's Office said Thursday.

The Cubans told U.S. Border Patrol agents they were taken to a safe house in
Veracruz, where they were given fake documents, allowing them to pass through a
series of roadblocks and checkpoints on their passage north.

Despite extra attention at the checkpoints, the Cubans, who were split into
smaller groups, said they had no problem passing through them as they took
commercial buses to the border, Mexican officials said.

A spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol declined to comment on the case.

What was once thought to be a mass kidnapping now appears to have been a
carefully orchestrated rescue in the increasingly violent world of smuggling
Cubans through Mexico.

The incident also has brought international attention to Mexico's immigration
agency, which human rights activists, Cuban exiles and some Mexican officials
say is riddled with corruption.

The immigrants were seized June 6 in the powder-blue waters just off Cancun's
hotel zone. They were among a growing wave of Cubans trying to enter the United
States through Mexico.

The route has become increasingly popular, observers say, because of the U.S.
policy - known as "wet foot/dry foot" - under which Cubans who reach U.S. soil
are allowed to stay while those caught at sea are returned to the island.

But the Cubans' disappearance from a government bus on June 11 has many
believing their seizure by masked gunmen was an inside job. The Mexican
Immigration Institute was transferring the migrants from a detention center on
the Yucatan Peninsula to one along the Guatemalan border.

Despite the large load of detainees, immigration agents, who are unarmed in
Mexico, did not request the usual armed escort from police. Also, agents didn't
report the attack for several hours, giving the gunmen what proved to be an
insurmountable head start.

In the aftermath of the incident, a high-ranking immigration official in the
region was fired, and Mexico's federal organized crime division investigated the
agents on the bus. Nine immigration agents, along with the two bus drivers, have
been detained.

Cuban exile and human rights organizations have long complained of abuse and
corruption in Mexican immigration detention centers.

"Some of the guards extort money from the Cubans who are being held," said Ramon
Saul Sanchez, leader of the Democracia Movement, a Miami-based Cuban exile
organization. "They tell a Cuban, 'Have your family send me $100, and I'll get
you better food to eat.' Or they ask for money to give the Cubans access to a
phone."

The unique and complicated immigration status of Cubans leaves them even more
vulnerable to shakedowns, the groups say. Cuba accepts deportations of only
certain migrants deemed "repatriables," largely those caught at sea. The groups
allege that Mexican immigration officials offer to change the status of those
caught at sea for a hefty fee.

Of the 994 Cubans caught by Mexico this year, including many detained at sea,
only 64 have been deported, according to the Mexican government.

Eduardo Matias Lopez, head of the Cuban-Mexican Civic Association, charges that
Mexican authorities don't allow his group and others into detention centers so
they can conceal ongoing extortion of Cubans.

"It's a system of terror," he said. Mexican immigration authorities "are totally
corrupt."

In the days after the Cubans' disappearance, the Cuban ambassador in Mexico,
Manuel Aguilera de la Paz, blamed a "Miami mafia" of anti-Castro exiles for
being behind the vast network of immigrant smuggling.

Cuban exile groups deny that anti-Castro forces are responsible for the
smuggling operations and say the Cuban government, corrupt Mexican officials and
organized crime groups run the network.

Matias said he believes that the Cuban government gets a slice of the lucrative
smuggling business and regularly allows boats to leave Cuba.

As for the smuggling groups in Mexico, "many are Cubans without scruples, common
criminals taking advantage of the suffering of the Cuban people," he said.

Regardless of who directs the operations, the Mexican government says that in
the past two years, the Cuban smuggling ring has become increasingly
sophisticated, brazen and violent.

Smuggling of Cubans is blamed for an alarming spike in violence in Cancun,
including several daylight shootouts and an execution in the posh hotel zone in
recent months.

Experts suspect that the human smuggling is linked to drug cartels, in
particular the Zetas, the armed wing of the powerful Gulf Cartel.

Ricardo Gluyas, an investigator with the Institute of Profession Formation,
which advises the Mexican government on law enforcement issues, said the drug
cartel may be the only group with the infrastructure to move 33 wanted Cubans
from Chiapas to the U.S. border, a journey of nearly 1,000 miles.

"The logistics of such an operation suggest a link to organized crime," Gluyas
said.

And the Cubans were valuable merchandise.

Experts say the going price for smuggling a migrant from Cuba to Florida is
$10,000 to $15,000. With most of the smuggling fees paid by families once the
migrants arrive in the U.S., smugglers stood to lose nearly $500,000 if the
Cubans were deported, Gluyas said.

- jeremy_schwartz@coxnews.com

- john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 ISRAEL LEAL/The Associated Press Mexican marines escort Cubans detained off
Cancun on June 6. After they were put on a bus, gunmen seized them in southern
Mexico. On Thursday, officials said at least 18 had reached the U.S. border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 4, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN CALLS FOR CREATING TAMPER-PROOF WORKER PLAN

BYLINE: By JEREMY SCHWARTZ Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Presidential hopeful John McCain called for a "tamper-proof" temporary worker
program, promoted free trade and praised joint drug-fighting efforts Thursday as
he finished a three-day tour of Colombia and Mexico.

"I believe we must have comprehensive immigration reform, but the American
people want our borders secured first," McCain said, speaking in a heavily
guarded federal police hangar in the rough Mexico City neighborhood of
Iztapalapa.

"In the short term, the United States and Latin America need a temporary worker
program, but one that is verifiable, with biometric tamper-proof documents. ...
When it is known that people who come to our country illegally can't get a job,
that will then cut off the magnet that attracts people," he said.

McCain met with President Felipe Calderon to discuss immigration, trade and the
recently passed Merida Initiative, a $400 million U.S. aid package to help
Mexico fight a bloody drug war that has claimed more than 1,800 lives this year.

McCain's visit was eagerly awaited in Mexico, where he enjoys a favorable
standing despite deeply negative opinions of President Bush.

In an editorial, El Universal newspaper said Thursday McCain's support for U.S.
aid to help Mexico fight its drug cartels, his push for immigration reform and
strong backing of NAFTA showed he has "a better understanding of this country
than that shown so far by his opponent."

The foray into Latin America was intended to remind voters that he can operate
easily on the world stage and to contrast his international free-trade policy
against Barack Obama's.

Obama, who spent much of this week in potential general election swing states,
has vowed if elected to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement to
include enforceable labor and environmental provisions.

NAFTA and the Colombian free trade pact have been unpopular in important
electoral states such as Ohio and Pennsylvania.

McCain plans to spend the July Fourth holiday with family members in his home
state, Arizona.

- jschwartz@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. ELECTION 2008

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 LM OTERO/The Associated Press U.S. presidential candidate Sen. John McCain and
wife Cindy talk with Monsignor Diego Monroy Ponce in Mexico City Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. HISPANICS ACCOUNT FOR HALF OF POPULATION GROWTH SINCE 2000

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hispanics account for more than half the U.S. population growth this decade, an
increase spurred more by births than immigration, according to a study released
Thursday.

The Hispanic population has grown by nearly 30 percent since 2000, from about 35
million to about 45 million, said the report from the Pew Hispanic Center, a
nonpartisan research group in Washington.

The non-Hispanic U.S. population grew by just 4 percent over the same period.

Richard Fry, a researcher at the center and the report's author, said it marked
a shift from the 1990s, when most of the growth in the Hispanic population was
brought about by new arrivals.

"What we are now seeing is the secondary impacts of Hispanic international
migration from the '80s and '90s," he said. "Now fertility, natural increase, is
driving Hispanic growth."

Of the 10 million increase since 2000, about 60 percent is due to natural
increase, which means the number of births minus the number of deaths, the study
said.

It also found that Latinos continue to disperse throughout the nation. Some
counties showing rapid growth in Hispanic population are in Montana, New
Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts.

About 80 percent of the growth, however, is still occurring in the South and
West. The 25 fastest-growing counties in terms of net Hispanic population growth
this decade are mostly in California, Texas, Arizona and Florida.

The report did not analyze the reason for the Hispanic migration, but Fry said
that Latinos tend to migrate to places with "vigorous labor market
opportunities."

The report seems to back up that premise. It shows a cooling off of migration to
areas in the Midwest such as Michigan and Minnesota, which have been hard-hit by
the nation's financial crisis.

In Palm Beach County, the Hispanic population increased 56 percent since 2000,
from 140,675 to 218,902. The county ranks 21st in total Hispanic population
increase.

In 2000, Hispanics made up 12 percent of the county's population. In 2007, it
was 17 percent.

The report, which is based on data from the U.S. Census, includes U.S. citizens,
legal residents and illegal immigrants. The Census Bureau does not ask people
their legal status.

Although the study found that the Hispanic population has grown in nearly 3,000
of the nation's 3,141 counties, about 80 percent of the growth occurred in 178
counties. In 2007, 73 percent of Latinos lived in the 100 largest Latino
counties.

~ emoscoso@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FIRST RULE FOR DEMOCRATS: DON'T ACT LIKE THE GOP

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 506 words


House Democrats not only have political momentum from Tuesday's resounding
victory, they also come to power with a fine example of all the things they
shouldn't do to keep it.

That invaluable contribution comes courtesy of the Republican Party, which rode
a similar wave in 1994 and took control of the House and Senate. Twelve years of
institutional hubris, ideological myopia and, since 2001, blind deference to
White House incompetence made the GOP's collapse inevitable. Even the patriotic
bipartisanship that briefly followed the 9/11 attacks was not enough to keep
Republicans from squandering their chance to deliver on the moderate reforms
most Americans want.

Now, it's the Democrats turn. Incoming Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., has seen enough of Dennis Hastert to know how not to lead. President
Bush says he wants to find common ground with House Democrats, and he cited
comprehensive immigration reform as a place to start. Ironically, the demise of
the Republican majority brings the White House and Congress closer to agreement
on a plan that secures borders but also deals with the 12 million illegal
immigrants already here. Exit polls Tuesday found that about six in 10 voters
believe that working immigrants should have a chance at legal status. Most of
the House Republicans who were sent packing offered only fencing and
demagoguery. Democrats will support the president on a guest-worker program that
his own party opposed.

Exit polling also showed that corruption weighed heavily on voters. The Abramoff
scandal specifically and Tom DeLay politics in general might have been enough to
bring down the GOP. But the Mark Foley e-mails and apparent coverup imploded a
party that purported to restore values and integrity. Palm Beach County again
found itself at the epicenter of a national upheaval, and emerged with four
Democratic representatives for the first time in its history. Tim Mahoney, the
unknown Democrat who won Foley's seat, struck a Republican profile - a self-made
businessman who espoused religious faith and family loyalty - and so did
Democrats who took GOP seats elsewhere. The party won by reclaiming the middle
and a surprising 30 percent of the evangelical Christian vote.

With the resignation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Democrats can use
their control of the House to shape Iraq policy. The imminent report from the
Baker-Hamilton task force holds the hope of a blueprint for tactical changes.
Democrats who take over committee chairmanships have subpoena power to get
answers about the war but should use it wisely. Even oblique references to
impeachment are reminiscent of Republican overreaching. Hearings on energy
policy and military preparedness are more important to the country. Democrats
campaigned in the middle and have to govern from there.

The new House majority doesn't need a contract with America or other political
gimmickry. Voters have spoken and made clear what's important to them, and it's
up to Democrats now to show that they really were listening.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 10, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INDIANS, OTHERS COME FOR WHAT U.S. STILL REPRESENTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 251 words


Thank you for the article "Asian Indians reach fastest growth pace among
ethnics," on Page One of the Oct. 23 edition.

The article comes at a time of intense debate regarding immigration; it comes at
a time when our nation's habeas corpus rights have been indefinitely suspended;
our youth are engaged in fighting in an ill-conceived war in Iraq; our
administration's math on the budget deficit does not add up; and there is a
certain sense of malaise and foreboding among a large percentage of the nation's
populace. Yet almost 500,000 immigrants came to America from India during this
time of upheaval. And these were not illegal or low-skilled immigrants but
doctors, professors and engineers among other professionals who arrived here on
professional visas and hoped to stay on and become Americans. What gives?

Buried in the article is the fact that the United States continues to be a
beacon of hope and prosperity to a clamoring world. In America, hard work and a
level playing field still make it possible for one to succeed beyond one's
dreams. The facts that America is such a magnanimous host, that it is so
forthcoming with opportunities for its immigrants, that it does not
differentiate on race, caste or creed but values skill, hard work and
determination instead are what brings Indians and others to these shores.

So, thank you again for the article. It is a much-needed ratification of
American values and the American dream for those from India and beyond.

SOM BHATTACHARYA

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 122 words


FORT PIERCE - Two Polish natives charged in connection with undocumented
immigrants who were working at Treasure Coast companies will be kept in jail
without bail as a flight risk, a U.S. magistrate judge ruled. Jan Dziarski, 51,
who was born in Poland and is a Canadian citizen, hired the immigrants through
his consulting firm, according to criminal complaints. Magdalena Grabowiecka,
32, who was in the United States on an expired visa, allegedly helped drive the
immigrants to work. Grabowiecka will remain in jail while awaiting a resolution
of her case, U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Lynch said Thursday. On Monday, Lynch
denied bail for Dziarski but said he would reconsider the request if Dziarski's
immigration status changed.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO STREET THUGS INVOLVED, BUT STILL 'GUAT-BASHING'

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 448 words


Crimes against Guatemalan immigrants have become so prevalent in South Florida
that offenders routinely refer to the attacks as "Guat-bashing." In fact,
Guat-bashing is so widespread that the federal government might be joining in.

Certainly, that description fits the case U.S. attorneys are trying to make
against Pedro Zapeta, the Guatemalan dishwasher whose asymmetrical legal fight
against the Justice Department was reported in Sunday's Palm Beach Post. Mr.
Zapeta, 38, entered the country illegally 10 years ago and worked as a
dishwasher for numerous Stuart restaurants, often holding two jobs at a time. In
September 2005, Mr. Zapeta stuffed his savings -- about $59,000 -- into a duffel
bag, bought a plane ticket and set out to return to his country. He intended to
use the money to start a business and support his family. At Fort
Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, U.S. Customs agents searched his
bag, found the cash, confiscated it and accused him of smuggling drug money.
Now, the government wants to keep the $59,000 and deport Mr. Zapeta.

The case is an embarrassing waste of prosecutors' time and taxpayers' money. Mr.
Zapeta has no criminal record, and the government has no evidence that he ever
participated in any drug activity. In fact, prosecutors attempted to withdraw
the drug allegation from their complaint but were blocked by the court. Six of
Mr. Zapeta's former employers have filed affidavits verifying that he worked for
them and did a good job.

His attorney, Robert Gershman of West Palm Beach, acknowledges that Mr. Zapeta
failed to declare that he was carrying more than $10,000, as required by law,
when he tried to board the plane. But this oversight calls for a proportionate
penalty, not forfeiture of the entire sum. Assistant U.S. Attorney William
Beckerleg won't comment: "We do not want to talk about it." Mr. Beckerleg
expressed surprise that the case had raised interest. The government wants to
take Mr. Zapeta's money essentially because it can.

Part of the reason the case has gone as far as it has is cultural ignorance.
Americans can't believe that immigrants who make $7 an hour are capable of
amassing tens of thousands through hard work and a frugal lifestyle. Yet, Mr.
Zapeta is emblematic of millions who live and labor in the shadows: He put in
long hours, rode a bicycle, shared a modest apartment and saved as much as he
spent. Above all, he stayed out of trouble, paid taxes and contributed to the
Stuart economy. Advocates of a national guest-worker program have people exactly
like Pedro Zapeta in mind.

Rather than bash him in court, the government should say thanks for the example
and wish Mr. Zapeta luck in Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Mr. Pedro Zapeta (mug)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

TWO PLEAD GUILTY TO SMUGGLING HAITIANS FOR $40,000 PAYMENT

BYLINE: By SARAH PROHASKA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Two Bahamian men admitted Thursday to smuggling Haitian immigrants into Martin
County aboard a boat in September in exchange for payments.

Alvio Roberto Penn, 41, and Andrew Craig Gates, 38, pleaded guilty in federal
court to two counts of harboring illegal immigrants "for the purpose of
commercial advantage or private financial gain" in connection with two of the
Haitian men who were dropped off in Rocky Point on Sept. 15.

Federal prosecutors say Penn was promised $40,000 in Bahamian currency to get
the illegal immigrants into the United States. A Bahamian dollar is equal to an
American dollar. More than a dozen people made it on shore that morning, and
they scattered throughout a residential neighborhood and into bushes and woods
south of Stuart. Law enforcement officials picked up most of the immigrants
within hours.

A federal grand jury indicted the men on 12 counts -- one for each of the 12
people found. But prosecutors have agreed to drop 10 of those charges after Penn
and Gates' sentencing as part of the plea deal.

The two men said little during Thursday's hearing, but they will have a chance
to talk to the judge during the sentencing hearing on Feb. 2.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Waters said that a few days before the men
arrived in Martin County, Penn agreed to drive the boat and Gates agreed to come
along and help with the trip.

"In the Bahamas, this defendant was approached by other individuals about using
a boat to bring people without permission into the U.S.," Waters said of Penn.
"He agreed to do so for $40,000 in Bahamian dollars."

Gates also was promised a payment, Waters said, although he did not disclose
that amount during the hearing.

Officials were able to get a description of the 26-foot boat from the people
they took into custody and from other witnesses.

They intercepted the boat after it stopped to refuel at the Sailfish Marina,
Waters said.

sarah_prohaska@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHAT CAN GOVERNMENT DO? HMM.

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 646 words


Forget thousand-mile fences, computer databases and high-tech surveillance
devices.

One of the most cost-effective ways to control the number of immigrants staying
in the country may involve nothing more than paper, pencil and some civics
questions.

The federal government has come up with a new citizenship test that is intended
to help aspiring Americans understand democracy better, instead of just
memorizing facts. Beyond asking how many stars are on the flag or what the
stripes mean, the new tests asks 144 thought-provoking questions, and many of
them have several correct answers.

For example: Name one thing only the federal government can do.

Answers: Print money, declare war, create an army, make treaties.

Of course, there are two obvious problems with this approach. First, the
government is asking foreigners to correctly answer questions that millions of
native-born Americans can't. Second, questions that have several correct
responses might have several more.

For example: Name one thing only the federal government can do.

Other correct answers: Drain the treasury; build bridges to nowhere; cover for
colleagues' crimes; ignore problems with catastrophic consequences and focus on
politically expedient irrelevances.

It would be unfair to rule any of those responses incorrect, yet odds are that
the government probably will. Too many questions have too many legitimate
responses.

Another example: Name one problem that led to the Civil War.

Answers the government wants: Slavery, economics or states' rights.

Other correct answers: Nonexistent weapons of mass destruction, the Shiites, the
Sunnis, George Bush, Dick Cheney, The New York Times, Rummy.

Or: Who can vote in the U.S.?

Answer the government wants: All citizens 18 and over.

Other correct answers: People who pick the right touch-screen. People who don't
live in Sarasota. People who can forget campaign TV commercials.

Or: What type of economic system does the U.S. have?

Answers the government wants: Capitalist, free-market, market economy.

Other correct answers: Rich get richer. Trickle up. Halliburtonic.

Or: We elect a U.S. representative for how many years?

Answer the government wants: Two (2).

Other correct answers: Until they send lewd e-mails to pages, make millions off
defense contracts, play free golf in Europe.

Or: Who does a U.S. senator represent?

Answer the government wants: All citizens in the state.

Other correct answers: Campaign contributors, lobbyists, people with stadium
skyboxes.

Or: Who is the president now?

Answer the government wants: George W. Bush.

Other correct answers: No one's sure. Dick Cheney. Karl Rove. Lynne Cheney. A
preacher to be named later.

Or: Name one thing Benjamin Franklin is famous for?

Answers the government wants: Diplomat, first postmaster general, wrote Poor
Richard's Almanac.

Other correct answers: Unprotected sex, unprotected kite-flying, unprotected
plagiarism of common sayings.

Or: What was the main concern of the U.S. during the Cold War?

Answers the government wants: Communism or the Soviet Union.

Other correct answers: Proliferation of TV game shows, birth of George W. Bush,
UFOs, East German women's swim team.

Or: What are the two parts of the U.S. Congress?

Answer the government wants: The Senate and House.

Other correct answers: The indicted and unindicted. Gays and straights.
Lawyered-up or in rehab.

Or: Why do we have three branches of government?

Answer the government wants: So no branch is too powerful.

Other correct answers: Allows three versions of the truth. Dispersal of blame.
Funding for four branches wasn't earmarked.

Or: What does the president's Cabinet do?

Answer the government wants: Advises the president.

Other correct answers: Rolls over. Passes Diet Cokes to middle of the table.
Develops new concepts in immigrant testing.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GRANT DYING WOMAN'S WISH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 220 words


The United States has always set aside provisions within its immigration policy
to allow refuge or entry into the country for extraordinary cases of suffering
or oppression.

The federal government has wide discretion to grant emergency visas to
foreigners with compelling stories. Unfortunately, too often the discretion is
poorly applied or lost in bureaucratic red tape. Deserving requests get rejected
or ignored.

Zoila Guerra shouldn't be one of those. The 44-year-old Peruvian woman is dying
of cervical cancer and receiving treatment at Boca Raton Community Hospital.
What could be Ms. Guerra's last wish is to see her daughter Claudia Torres, who
lives in Lima, Peru. Ms. Torres has bought a Christmas Eve plane ticket to come
to Florida, but the government is denying her visa request to enter the country.
A State Department spokesman says the main obstacle is convincing federal
officials that Ms. Torres does not intend to stay here, though she has
stipulated she does not.

Dr. Tim Williams, who has been treating Ms. Guerra for free, has it right: "This
whole country is built on compassion, but we don't even seem to be getting any
consideration." A nation that always has valued generosity should allow a dying
woman to spend her last holidays with her daughter. It's more than discretion;
it's our tradition.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 29, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STRUMS ON YOUR HEARTSTRINGS

BYLINE: By HAP ERSTEIN Palm Beach Post Film Writer

SECTION: TGIF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 439 words


The political debate over illegal immigration can seem so abstract, but Mark
Becker's documentary Romantico manages to put a face on it.

He follows Carmelo Muniz Sanchez, a Mexican who crossed into the United States
without the proper papers, smuggled in precariously by a "coyote." Carmelo then
made his way to San Francisco, where he and a friend subsisted as mariachi
musicians, making enough in tips to support himself and send money back to his
family in the small town of Salvatierra.

Separated from his wife and children for three years, he takes his first-ever
airplane flight and returns home after he learns of the failing health of his
diabetic mother. Although in America he can make many more times what he can in
Mexico, Carmelo is torn between loyalty to his family with his presence vs. the
simple comforts that additional income would allow.

By our standards, Carmelo leads a modest life, but as he talks of the truly poor
children of his village, tears well up in his eyes. Scenes of him playing
mariachi guitar and singing romantic songs are woven throughout the film, but
the happy lyrics are an ironic counterpoint to the harsh realities he
experiences.

Romantico is an eye-opening, sympathetic portrait of a provider who tries to
work through the immigration system and is stymied by the regulations and
expectations for obtaining a work visa. Becker reportedly began the project as a
simple look at mariachis as one of the many street musicians in his San
Francisco neighborhood. But the film evolved as he learned of Carmelo's
situation, and again when Carmelo decided to return home.

Edited by Becker, Romantico has a loose, disjointed narrative arc, as if he
could not bring himself to leave out some of the intriguing tangents he
discovered along the way. But they are interesting, like the tale of Carmelo's
friend and mariachi partner Arturo, who unsuccessfully resists his affinity for
alcohol. Or Carmelo's daytime job in Mexico, hawking "snow," an ice, milk and
flavorings concoction that he sells for a few pesos from a bicycle cart. And a
fleeting moment of happiness, throwing a party, albeit meager, for his
daughter's 15th birthday.

There are no overtly dramatic incidents in Romantico, just the tale of a life
eked out in poverty and one man's resolve to make the most of the hand he has
been dealt.

Now showing as part of the Emerging Cinemas film series at the Lake Worth
Playhouse.

REVIEW

Romantico

B

Not rated: Life's challenges, but no harsh language or overt sexuality.

Running time: 1 hour, 20 minutes (subtitled)

The verdict: An eye-opening, sympathetic slice-of-life for an undocumented
Mexican immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MOVIES Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 HARSH REALITIES: Carmelo Muniz Sanchez, a San Francisco mariachi who supports
his family back in Mexico, is at the center of the documentary Romantico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUPITER FAMILY TRIES TO SURVIVE AS MOM FIGHTS DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1651 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Life without Elva Ruiz is a baby with no mother to nurse on.

It is Christmas without her laughter, it is dinner without her touch, it is a
father choking back tears when he stops to think of it all.

The Ruizes' world turned upside down on a Monday morning.

This is the way it went: Elva was driving to Juno Beach, a police officer pulled
her over for a broken brake light and a computer check revealed a warrant for
deportation.

For more than two months, Elva, 32, has been behind bars. Today she's at the
Broward Transitional Center in Pompano Beach, where she makes collect calls to
her family in Jupiter.

Time is ticking by fast. The federal government has already denied a request to
reopen her case. Any day now, Immigration and Customs Enforcement could send her
back to Mexico against her will.

Elva, after all, is among an estimated 12 million immigrants in the U.S.
illegally. All but one of her sons were born here -- U.S. citizens whose parents
are illegal immigrants. Her case highlights the problems illegal immigrants face
under a complicated and exacting system as they make a life in the States and
raise American-born children -- all the while living without legitimacy.

Any day could be Oct. 23 for them. Any day families like the Ruizes could see
their lives unravel over a broken brake light.

In the Ruizes' case, bad legal advice and their own lack of knowledge about a
complicated immigration system have helped keep Elva in legal limbo.

"Sometimes it's living hell, the uncertainty of not knowing your destiny," said
Alfonso Oviedo, president of the Miami-based immigrant advocacy group American
Fraternity.

Susan Eastwood, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of Justice Executive
Office for Immigration Review, said the government understands the hurdles
immigrants face.

"Is there confusion? Absolutely," Eastwood said. "For most of the people,
English is not their first language. We're doing what we can to make sure people
... are represented so that they get what they're entitled to, but we can only
do so much."

Among other things, her office provides information to help immigrants seek
legal status, including a Web site with a list of attorneys who do pro bono or
low-cost legal work in such cases. There is also a list of attorneys
unauthorized to present cases to the review office.

Names in the system

Jorge Ruiz and Elva Flores grew up in Calvillo, a small rural town in Mexico
about 30 miles west of Aguascalientes. Many people there cross the U.S. border
to find work, Jorge said. Others stay behind to pick tomatoes or corn.

Jorge and Elva planned for a good future, so they got married and in 1990
started living together in California.

The couple tried more than once to apply for permanent legal status.

The first time was in the early 1990s. They hired a paralegal to help them apply
for residency, but the man filed for political asylum instead.

Still in California, the couple received a notice for an interview for their
asylum case. It set off alarm bells: What would the government say once they
admitted to a false request?

The Ruizes decided to ignore the interview, fearing it would land them in only
more trouble.

But it might already have been too late. Their names were now in the system.

The years passed. The couple moved to Jupiter. Their family was growing.

First came Jorge Luis, a school whiz who at 13 already has a college
scholarship. Juan Pablo, who was born in Mexico, followed soon afterward.

Next came the twins, Mike Anthony, the jester of the family with his missing
front teeth, and Mark Anthony, a seemingly quiet old soul at the ripe age of 7.

All that was missing was a daughter. So Jorge and Elva tried again, but last
March 21 they welcomed yet another boy, John Daniel.

Nevertheless, things were going well. Two years ago the couple bought a house in
Jupiter, which Jorge, who now works in construction, expanded to make room for a
dining table big enough to seat the whole family.

Elva kept the house spotless, the boys played soccer after school and the family
went to church on Sundays.

Time not an ally

Their immigration case dragged along, whether they knew it or not.

In 1998, they were sent a notice to appear at immigration court. But they didn't
get the paperwork, probably because they had moved to Florida, said their
attorney Annabella Trujillo.

A few years after the notice was sent, the Ruizes hired a previous attorney, who
learned that the couple was in danger of being deported because they had not
shown up for the asylum interview.

The attorney reopened their case, but after a couple of hearings a judge in 2003
ordered them deported.

The 1998 notice the Ruizes never received played a big role: it served as a sort
of time marker for each spouse's case.

In Elva's case, application for residency was denied because she hadn't lived in
the U.S. for at least a decade since before the date of the notice. She was two
years shy of the legal hurdle.

As for Jorge, Trujillo said that though he did meet the time requirement to stop
his deportation, the judge found that his three U.S.-born children wouldn't
suffer "extreme and unusual hardships" if they had to move to Mexico or stay
here with relatives.

Still, Elva and Jorge had the right to appeal. The previous attorney filed the
paperwork but not on time, Trujillo said.

Also, an application was done only for Jorge, not Elva, probably because she
didn't have as good a chance as her husband, Trujillo said.

But otherwise, Jorge and Elva were in the same precarious position on Oct. 23.

"He wasn't picked up, that's the only difference," Trujillo said.

Jorge, 36, places part of the blame on the previous attorney because he left the
Ruizes in the dark.

"I'd call the office and they'd tell me, 'Call next month, call next month,' "
Jorge said.

After a year of that, Jorge drove to the office, where he learned the attorney
had left. Most of his files were ruined in two hurricanes, Jorge was told.

Friends suggested getting another attorney, but still stinging from his latest
experience with the legal system, Jorge thought the family would be better off
keeping their money and simply waiting for the appeal to go through.

That's where Jorge places the rest of the blame on himself.

Now the dishes pile up in the kitchen sink. Jorge works fewer hours to take care
of the kids. Friends of the family are pitching in to help cover the mortgage,
and relatives in Port St. Lucie look after baby John Daniel most of the week.
Elva was still nursing him when she was detained.

Options quickly dwindling

The family is clinging on even as hope dwindles.

Because if Elva is deported to Mexico, the family will face an even more
difficult situation.

Jorge Luis, the eldest son, says it's unfair.

He misses his mother's home-cooked meals and her jokes. He said undocumented
immigrants should be allowed to stay because they do the jobs nobody else wants.

And his mother should stay because she is a good person. "She didn't do anything
wrong," Jorge Luis said recently, his brothers playing video games nearby.
"There's a lot of criminals out there and nothing's being done with them."

Trujillo, the Ruizes' attorney, was working on reopening Elva's case.

Because the law doesn't allow Elva to apply for residency, the only recourse was
to have the Department of Homeland Security -- which includes Immigration and
Customs Enforcement -- step in.

But on Thursday officials rejected reopening her case, Trujillo said.

Now the family hopes people write to their U.S. senators and ask them to help.

"It's the only chance we have," Trujillo said. "If the government wants, it can
do anything."

There are good reasons for Elva to stay with her family, Trujillo said. One of
the sons may have a learning disability. Another one is prone to getting colds
-- and you can't forget the infant.

Lastly, the eldest boy -- who earned a President's Award for Educational
Excellence three years ago, complete with George W. Bush's signature -- is
proving himself an intelligent student.

"He would need to grow up in this country to take advantage of the
possibilities," Trujillo said.

One of those possibilities is a $1,000 college scholarship Jan Winkler and his
wife, Hermine Drezner, gave to Jorge Luis when he was still at Jupiter
Elementary School.

Winkler has kept in touch with the family since, and they've left an indelible
impression. They're good people, he said, pay taxes and are hardworking.

The system should reward them by letting them stay, he said.

"Instead, we throw them out of here," Winkler said. "I'm ashamed of that."

~ ana_ceron@pbpost.com

'Second-class citizens'

The Ruiz case is just one in a country where the number of U.S.-born children
raised by immigrant parents living here illegally is estimated at 3 million,
according to the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan economic and social policy
research organization based in Washington.

Accordingly, the threat of deportation is looming over the smallest of American
citizens.

And that, some activists say, is a violation of their civil rights.

In October, a suit was filed in federal court in Miami asking the government to
temporarily suspend the deportation of all illegal immigrants whose children
were born in the United Stateswhile lawmakers decide how to overhaul immigration
policies.

Filed by Nora Sandigo, founder of the immigrant advocacy group American
Fraternity, the suit argues that deportation of their foreign-born parents
leaves children with a grim choice: Abandon the opportunities of the country
they were born in or stay to become wards of the state.

"That's deporting them," said Miami attorney Alfonso Oviedo, president of the
group. "That's a very cute way of saying, 'Get out of here.' "

Oviedo says the government is responsible. By not adequately funding immigration
enforcement, Congress has allowed millions of illegal immigrants to raise
American citizens.

As a result, Oviedo says, these children are being treated like "second-class
citizens."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Elva Ruiz (mug) 2. ERIK M. LUNSFORD/Staff Photographer Jorge Ruiz at his
Jupiter home this month with his five sons. The youngest, John Daniel, was born
in March. The eldest, Jorge Luis, 13, (back right) has earned a President's
Award for Educational Excellence. He was followed by Juan Pablo, 12, and twins
Mark Anthony and Mike Anthony (right), who are 7.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN WHO DIED IN POLICE CUSTODY WENT UNIDENTIFIED FOR FOUR WEEKS

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1704 words

DATELINE: GREENACRES


On Oct. 8, between 10:30 and 11 p.m., in the Greenacres police holding cell, a
tile setter named Armando Ibarra stopped breathing.

Right at that moment, Ibarra, a Mexican immigrant, also started to slip silently
through a crack in the legal system. For the next month, he virtually didn't
exist.

His pulse revived briefly by emergency technicians, Ibarra was rushed to
Wellington Regional Medical Center, where his heart failed twice more and he was
hooked to a ventilator. He was pronounced dead at 3:02 p.m. the next day.

By that time, doctors knew that Ibarra had suffered from cocaine delirium.

What they didn't know was his true identity. Like many undocumented workers who
fear permanent deportation if caught, Ibarra never used his real name in contact
with U.S. officialdom.

To heighten that confusion, when police could find no identification on Ibarra,
they created yet another fictitious name for booking purposes. His corpse was in
legal limbo.

It took his family a month to find out what had happened.

That he died in police custody after being forcibly subdued has not been made
public until now.

Those facts have created grave suspicions among his relatives. An attorney for
the family insists police may have caused Ibarra's death, through the use of a
Taser or otherwise, and then tried to conceal it.

"Maybe they had this prisoner die on them, and they figured they had a Mexican
immigrant on their hands who had no family around and no one would come looking
for him," says attorney John DeLeon, who also represents the Mexican Consulate
in Miami. "Maybe they tried to cover it up, sweep it under the rug. Maybe that's
why they made up a name."

Police strenuously deny that. Two internal investigations by Greenacres Police
and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office have found no wrongdoing, either
before or after his death.

Police say it is the unwarranted fear that undocumented individuals have of
local authorities that creates the sort of confusion and suspicion present in
the Ibarra case.

"There was no big cover-up here," says Detective Jason L'Etoile, who
investigated the case for the sheriff's office. "This was a tragic event ... but
there was no deliberate attempt to hide anything."

One person, many names

The Palm Beach County State Attorney's Office is still investigating. And the
Mexican Consulate is eagerly awaiting those findings. One of the first things
investigators will find is an unusual number of identities for one person.

Arrest records show that during the 13 years since he came to Florida from
Guanajuato state, Mexico, Ibarra had various run-ins with the law. They were
mostly minor traffic violations, although in 2002 he was arrested on charges of
cocaine possession and DUI.

According to fingerprint records, Ibarra had been detained under the last names
Rodriguez, Garcia, Hernandez, Parra and Abrara. His real name -- never.

"Why he did that, I don't know," says Teri Barbera, spokesperson for the
sheriff's office. "Maybe he knew how to play the system, or maybe it had to do
with the fact he was undocumented. People think if they give us their right
name, we're going to deport them. Well, that isn't our job. We don't do that. It
would be much better if they carried ID, opened bank accounts and established
identities here."

She says the sheriff's office has a program to help undocumented workers do
that.

"We're not just the ones who might put you in jail," she says. "We're the ones
who go looking for your family when something happens to you."

Police play name game, too

But Ibarra wasn't the only one to fabricate names. On the day he died,
Greenacres Police made up yet another one for him.

According to police and local residents, on the warm Sunday night he was
arrested, the bulky 5-feet-7, 215-pound Ibarra had lost control. He had stripped
to blue boxer shorts, was sweating profusely, screaming that he was on fire, and
tried to batter his way into at least two homes at the Pickwick Park Mobile Home
Park, where he lived. Police stunned him four times with a Taser to subdue him.

His worn, brown leather wallet was found in his discarded jeans nearby. It
contained mostly long-distance calling cards but no identification, police say.

Ibarra's sister, Rosa Isela Rodriguez, 28, of Port St. Lucie, does not believe
that. She says her brother possessed a Mexican government identification card
issued by the consulate in Miami. The consulate has confirmed that Ibarra was
issued such a credential in his true name on June 17, 2005.

"He always carried it," Rodriguez says. "What happened to it?"

Police say simply it wasn't found and Ibarra was too incoherent and combative to
give them a name.

"He was half-naked and psychotic," says L'Etoile. Local witnesses confirm that
Ibarra had lost control and needed to be restrained.

According to arrest reports, about five minutes after arriving at the
8-by-10-foot, concrete block Greenacres holding cell, Ibarra turned blue. He was
rushed to the hospital -- where he was transferred from Greenacres Police
custody to the sheriff's office custody, which is standard procedure -- and put
on life support. But he still had to booked.

At 5:08 a.m., he was entered in the sheriff's office booking log under the
made-up name Jose Luis Marenga. He was also given a false date of birth that
made him 27 instead of 33.

Greenacres Police Capt. Gina Abbananto says in doing that, her officers were not
trying to hide the dying Ibarra.

"The Sheriff's Office does not allow us to book a person like this under the
name 'John Doe' the way they used to," says Abbananto. She says Sgt. Kenneth
Ufkin, the arresting officer, had no choice but to create a name and date of
birth out of whole cloth until he could determine Ibarra's true identity.

Barbera confirmed that the county jail will no longer accept "John Does" and
hasn't for several years because it causes confusion in record keeping.

"We've never said to anyone, 'Make up a name,' " she says. "But do the booking
officers know that it happens? Yes. How often does it happen? They don't know.
But it happens."

Shortly after he was booked, while on life support at the hospital, Ibarra's
fingerprints were taken to establish his true identity through criminal records.
Unfortunately, deputies came up with the wrong name.

The oldest case the sheriff's office could find, from 1994, identified him as
Armando Rodriguez.

After Ibarra died Oct. 9, deputies say, they went looking for family members.
But they were using the wrong name, Rodriguez, and old addresses in Broward
County. They turned up nothing.

They should have looked closer to home. Police did almost no searching at the
Pickwick Mobile Home Park. Ibarra had lived there for the past four years, first
with his sister's family, then with a roommate. But police say they didn't know
that.

"Nobody there knew him," insists Abbananto, who says that on the night of the
arrest, officers asked residents in the immediate area of the incident. Ibarra
lived about 200 yards away at the back of the park.

Maybe they really didn't know Ibarra, or maybe they didn't want to get involved
because some are undocumented and shy away from police.

"We have that problem in these sorts of cases," Barbera says.

The manager of the park, Julia Grafals, 38, says police never asked her.

"I knew him and could have identified him, but nobody from the police ever
came," she says. "Nobody."

Instead, on Oct. 13, sheriff's investigators followed their only other lead.
They went to speak to taxi drivers at the USA Taxi company. A business card from
the company had been found in Ibarra's wallet.

Two drivers said they recognized Ibarra, but they did not know his name and
couldn't recall where they had picked him up or dropped him off.

On Oct. 16, having had no success, L'Etoile says, he faxed and e-mailed a flier
to local news media imprinted with Ibarra's face, the name Armando Rodriguez,
and the facts he had died and police were looking for his family. It didn't say
he had died while in custody.

"If you say the guy died in custody and after doing cocaine, then maybe people
don't want to get involved with it," L'Etoile says. "In hindsight, if I had it
to do again, I might put all that in. It might have gotten more attention."

Media attention was particularly hard to get at that moment. Three days before,
on Oct. 13, a family of four from Greenacres -- Jose Luis Escobedo, his wife,
Yessica, and their two young sons, had been found shot to death on the side of
Florida's Turnpike about 50 miles away.

News of that killing flooded the airwaves. No one at the mobile home park can
remember seeing the photo of Ibarra on television. It didn't appear in The Palm
Beach Post.

In such cases, L'Etoile says, relatives usually come looking for their loved
one. That didn't happen in Ibarra's case for more than four weeks.

"I got to thinking that he had no family here," L'Etoile says.

Story reaches sister

But that wasn't true. Rodriguez had learned from her brother's roommate that he
had been arrested. With the help of a friend, she had gone into the sheriff's
office online booking records.

Although police had subsequently called the dead man "Armando Rodriguez," the
original record available to the public had not been changed.

"I didn't see his name or his photo, so how could I know it was him?" says
Rodriguez. "The only case even close was that man Marenga, and it said there
that he was dead. I could never have believed my brother was dead."

She had other concerns that kept her from going to the sheriff's office.

"I was afraid to go to the jail," Rodriguez says. " I didn't see his name in the
booking, and I thought he might be using another name. I didn't want to get him
in more trouble."

Rodriguez herself is undocumented, which also gave her pause. But the strain
finally got to her.

"I kept on waiting for him to get out of jail and call me," says Rodriguez. "He
didn't get out and didn't get out and I didn't hear from him. I got more and
more worried."

Finally, on Nov. 9, she walked into the Greenacres Police station with photos of
her brother. That was when she learned he had died. It was she who finally gave
police her brother's true name and claimed his body.

He was finally buried Nov. 20 in his hometown in Mexico.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer Rosa Isela Rodriguez, Armando Ibarra's sister,
didn't learn for a month he had died in police custody, booked under a false
name.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STANDOFF WITH FAMILY ENDS IN DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


They were a "wonderful" family with a "black-haired beauty" of a daughter.

But on Thursday morning, Luis Hernando Camelo, his wife, Norha Guaza, and their
9-year-old daughter saw their quiet life at Thousand Oaks come to an abrupt end.

It was an end that dragged on about three hours and involved a tense standoff
with Riviera Beach police and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Camelo and
his family are from Colombia, and for the last year and a half had been living
in the gated Riviera Beach community as illegal immigrants.

Now Camelo is in the Krome Detention Center in Miami, awaiting deportation. As
for his wife and daughter, ICE officials confirmed the two were allowed to fly
back to Colombia together early Thursday evening.

Thursday morning's scene was a shock for their neighbors, Thousand Oaks resident
Eileen Senke said.

"Kind of movie-of-the-week," she said. "You had snipers on the roof."

Senke had only good things to say about the family.

"They were very, very gentle people," she said. "Not what we would call one of
the problem homeowners in the property."

The scene began to unfold Thursday around dawn, when the family heard a knock on
their door. It was ICE officers, who had arrived at the subdivision off Congress
Avenue with orders to deport the family.

The family had been living in the U.S. since 1999. Four years ago, the
government ruled to remove them from the country. They appealed their case, but
in July 2004 an immigration judge gave a final order for deportation.

"Immigration has been looking for them since that time," said police spokeswoman
Anne Brown.

When Camelo realized what loomed before him, he closed his front door and said
he wouldn't surrender until his attorney was there.

Riviera Beach police were called to the scene. Authorities knew Camelo was a
former police officer in Colombia and were concerned he would be armed. A SWAT
team was activated, Brown said. Officers also ordered some of the neighboring
homes to be evacuated, and other residents were told to stay indoors.

"Because of his former employment, you have to assume anything will happen,"
Brown said.

Camelo's attorney eventually arrived, and by 9:45 a.m. the couple was whisked
away in a white van. Their daughter was released to the attorney, Brown said.

Camelo never made any threats and surrendered peacefully, Brown said. According
to records, neither he nor his wife had a criminal history.

"They are a wonderful family," Senke said.

Camelo, 47, dressed well and always looked professional, she said. Guaza, 38,
seemed to be a stay-at-home mom. Their daughter, well, she was just a beauty,
Senke said.

It was the daughter that Senke worried the most about on Thursday.

"That was what broke my heart, is her seeing her parents taken away in
handcuffs," Senke said. "No child should have to see that."

But it was not a surprise, said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman with ICE. Anyone
who disobeys a court order of removal, like Camelo and his family, becomes a
fugitive, she said.

Staff researcher Melanie Mena contributed to this story.

- ana_ceron@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS LEARN WORST OF AMERICA

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 739 words


The first important statement on United States immigration policy came during
the Revolutionary War, when George Washington spoke to some new arrivals from
Ireland.

The fortunes of war had turned in favor of the Colonists, and Gen. Washington's
words ran rich in idealism and belief in what would become known as the American
Dream. Were the motive not so pure, it would be easy to accuse him of fomenting
national hubris.

"The bosom of America is open to receive not only the opulent and respectable
stranger," the future president said, "but the oppressed and persecuted of all
nations and religions, whom we shall welcome to participate in all of our rights
and privileges, if by decency and propriety of conduct they appear to merit the
enjoyment."

The "welcome to participate" part proved to be more of a national aspiration
than a guarantee. Immigrants had been vilified, assaulted and discriminated
against even before Washington made his speech, and immigrants are vilified,
assaulted and discriminated against to this day.

An ideal, never realized

Irish immigrants who fled their country's potato famine in the mid-19th century
were reviled from the moment they got off their boats in New York and Boston.
Newspapers advertising for workers quoted one wage for the Irish and a higher
one for everyone else.

Chinese who built the railroad to the West were treated as indentured servants.
When large numbers of Italian immigrants arrived at the start of the 20th
century, they were demeaned as job stealers and criminals. Americans still are
trying to rid themselves of the shame from what the nation did to more than
120,000 Japanese immigrants, and Japanese-Americans, sent to internment camps
during World War II.

Washington's wonderful commentary gave the country a mythical ideal that never
has been fully realized, and probably never will be. Discrimination always has
accompanied immigration here, just as sure as fear follows ignorance.

No one needs to explain this to Haitians, Guatemalans or Latinos who come to
South Florida today. They know all about discrimination, being victims of crime
and what life is like on the lowest rung of the economic ladder. They also are
learning about hate.

The Anti-Defamation League, which monitors and reports on racist hate groups,
says that it has found a resurgence in the Ku Klux Klan during the past year,
and the ADL believes that immigration is the issue that is driving the increased
activity.

"If any one single issue or trend can be credited with reenergizing the Klan, it
is the debate over immigration in America," said Deborah Lauter, the ADL's civil
rights director. "Klan groups have witnessed a surprising and troubling
resurgence by exploiting fears of an immigration explosion, and the debate over
immigration has, in turn, helped fuel an increase in Klan activity, with new
groups sprouting in parts of the country that have not seen much activity."

New look, but the same hate

The ADL found three KKK groups operating in Central and North Florida, but none
in South Florida. The largest group, the Homosassa-based Empire Knights of the
KKK, has put on rallies outside the state during the past year.

Klan groups are drawing on anti-immigrant sentiments, particularly those against
Hispanics, to promote recruitment drives and form alliances with white
supremacist and neo-Nazi groups. The ADL found that the immigration issue has
become a unifying force among hate groups nationwide who connect through the
Internet.

"Although some Klansmen still hold cross-burnings dressed in robes and hoods,"
Ms. Lauter said, "today's young Klansmen are more likely to look virtually
indistinguishable from racist skinheads or neo-Nazis."

The KKK got its start during Reconstruction from paranoia among Southern whites
that freed slaves would gain too much land and power. Immigrant Jews and
Catholics soon became targets for the same reasons. The pictures of thousands of
Hispanic immigrants marching in the streets last year provoked racist paranoia
that is little different than that from the Reconstruction era.

There are many important reasons why the nation needs comprehensive immigration
reform this year. Near the top of the list is to ensure that the rule of law
protects the "bosom of America" from the merchants of hate and fear.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com. Randy Schultz's column will return next week.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EXPATS' LIVES TO GET SPOTLIGHT

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 937 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Guatemalan President Oscar Berger is coming to South Florida this weekend, where
he is set to meet with local officials and expatriates in Jupiter and
Indiantown.

The stop is described as a humanitarian visit, an opportunity for the president
to hear directly from Guatemalans living here as the U.S. contemplates
overhauling its immigration policy.

"He's reaching out to the community to see what we can do as a government to
help," said Beatriz Illescas, Guatemala's consul general in Miami.

But at least one local official wants to know what Berger can do to help Lake
Worth.

Before meeting with leaders of the Guatemalan community, Berger is scheduled to
meet with Jupiter Mayor Karen Golonka and Lake Worth Mayor Marc Drautz.

Drautz said he hopes to ask Berger what he thinks is driving his citizens to
come to Florida illegally.

"I want to know what he thinks can happen to make it stop," Drautz said.

Jupiter and Lake Worth have struggled with growing numbers of immigrants,
including many from Guatemala, looking for work and better lives. Nowhere has
that been more evident than in the daily congregation of men on the streets of
both cities in the early morning, hoping that employers will pick them up to
work day jobs.

Jupiter established a day-labor center and set a town ordinance that banned the
daily gatherings. Lake Worth is looking to open a similar center.

Drautz said he wants to take what he learns from the meeting and share it with
state and federal representatives, who can impact federal immigration
legislation.

Those laws, and their anticipated changes, are what Berger wants to discuss with
leaders of the local Guatemalan population, Illescas said, as they share their
concerns of how immigration has affected both their home country and the United
States.

The concerns are many, says Tim Steigenga, a Florida Atlantic University
professor who also is a board member of Corn Maya, the migrant-advocacy
organization that helps run Jupiter's El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center.

For many in the Guatemalan community, deportation is at the top of the list.

In the 1980s, scores of Guatemalans fled their country when a decades-long civil
war was claiming more and more lives of the Mayan population.

Once in the U.S., some were able to ask for political asylum hearings, helping
their requests to stay here. But others did not, probably because they didn't
know they could, Steigenga says.

Now immigrants who fled Guatemala at the same time and for the same reasons face
very different prospects only because a piece of paper separates those who are
lucky enough to stay from those who face deportation.

"It's one of the nonsense outcomes of immigration policy," Steigenga said.

There are worries back home, too.

Guatemalan immigrants who make it back home often fear becoming targets of
crime, Steigenga said.

Fresh from the U.S., these former immigrants are believed to have money -- a
modest amount here could be a fortune there -- so they're sometimes threatened
for money.

Put together, these stories could help Berger paint a more vivid picture of what
could be addressed with U.S. immigration reform when he meets with President
George W. Bush.

The White House announced this month that Bush will take a five-nation tour of
Latin American in March. Guatemala will be one of his stops.

Berger, 60, took office in January 2004 as the candidate of the Gran Alianza
Nacional, a coalition of three smaller parties considered a center-right wing
group.

But in Palm Beach County, government leaders have tried to address the local
impacts of immigration on their own.

In September, Jupiter's labor center opened the day after the town council
finalized a rule banning day laborers from soliciting for work out in the
streets.

The workers, who include many of the immigrants from Guatemala and Mexico, now
must register with the center to look for jobs.

The arrangement has been working well so far, Steigenga says, keeping people off
the streets and protecting workers from unscrupulous employers.

And now, Jupiter's center may serve as inspiration for Lake Worth.

There, day laborers stand along the downtown corridor, waiting for trucks
offering them work.

Lake Worth commissioners have agreed to move forward with a day-labor center
there.

An avid supporter of a day-labor center, Drautz said he thinks it will help curb
crime, loitering and public drunkenness, as well as provide a more organized
means of getting work for the laborers.

The meeting with Berger will be another step toward addressing the increasing
day-labor issue in Lake Worth, Drautz said.

"I think it shows that we're making an effort, and when you do that, it builds
trust in that community," he said.

For Jupiter, Steigenga says Berger's visit means a sort of affirmation for its
work with the migrant community there.

"Jupiter is a success story," Steigenga said. "He sees this as perhaps a model
as to what other places can do."

Staff writer Nicole Janok and staff researcher Angelica Cortez contributed to
this story.

ana_ceron@pbpost.com

If you go

Guatemalan President Oscar Berger is scheduledto visit Jupiter and Indiantown
Saturday.

11:30 a.m.: Berger is scheduled to arrive at El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center
in Jupiter, where he'll meet privately with Jupiter Mayor Karen Golonka and Lake
Worth Mayor Marc Drautz. Berger will follow that up with another private
session, this time with leaders of Guatemalan communities from Miami to
Indiantown.

About 2 p.m.: Berger will give a public speech at the labor center.

About 3:30 p.m.: Berger is scheduled to arrive at Holy Cross Catholic Church in
Indiantown. A celebration of music and dancing is planned.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Oscar Berger (mug) He'll meet with Guatemalans as well as local officials.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 280 words


FORT PIERCE -- A 45-year-old woman who eluded law enforcement for 10 years after
being charged with vehicular homicide, DUI and possession of a controlled
substance without a prescription was finally sentenced Thursday to five years in
prison on the charges. According to police reports, Maureen Hudak was driving
north on Kitterman Road on Feb. 19, 1996, when she struck and killed a
bicyclist. After her arrest, Hudak didn't show up for a court hearing. She was
arrested in Pennsylvania in June and brought back to St. Lucie County to answer
the charges. On Thursday, she pleaded no contest to the drug charge, vehicular
homicide and DUI. The state attorney's office dropped a charge of DUI
manslaughter.

FORT PIERCE -- Two Bahamian men who admitted to smuggling Haitian immigrants
into Martin County in September in exchange for payments were each sentenced
Thursday to three years in prison followed by three years of probation. Alvio
Roberto Penn, 41, and Andrew Craig Gates, 38, pleaded guilty in November in
federal court to two counts of harboring illegal immigrants "for the purpose of
commercial advantage or private financial gain" in connection with two of the
Haitian men who were dropped off by boat in Rocky Point on Sept. 15. Federal
prosecutors say Penn was promised $40,000 in Bahamian currency to get the
illegal immigrants into the United States. More than a dozen people made it on
shore that morning, and they scattered throughout a residential neighborhood and
into bushes and woods south of Stuart. A federal grand jury indicted the men on
12 counts -- one for each of the 12 people found. But prosecutors dropped 10 of
those charges as part of the plea deal.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GUATEMALAN LAUDS JUPITER CENTER FOR AIDING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Guatemalan President Oscar Berger said he was leaving impressed.

Berger arrived at the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center late Saturday morning
to start a round of private meetings to discuss the life of Guatemalans in the
United States.

One of the stories he heard was that of the resource center, where day laborers
show up to get work but find more than jobs.

Berger, 60, told a crowd of more than 200 at the center that El Sol could serve
as a model for other parts of the U.S.

He said when President Bush visits Guatemala next month he'll tell him about it.

His time here was very productive, said Berger, whose term ends in December.
"I'm not leaving empty-handed."

Berger's praise might have served as an affirmation for Jupiter officials. Mayor
Karen Golonka said the town has managed to turn a problem of laborers waiting
for work on the sides of local streets into a chance to bridge a cultural gap.
The center opened in September mainly with the help of the nonprofit groups
Catholic Charities and Corn Maya Inc.

"We let him know that the people of Guatemala are also the people of Jupiter,"
the mayor said of her meeting with Berger.

At the center, Berger spent time talking with leaders of Guatemalan communities
from Miami to Indiantown.

Roberto Tomas, director of Coakam, a Lake Worth-based Guatemalan advocacy group,
said he was there to ask Berger to help fund a program that would help newly
deported Guatemalans find their way back home.

Sometimes they don't arrive with any money, and because many of them are from
small villages they don't know how to navigate in a big city, Tomas said.

Beatriz Illescas, Guatemala's consul general in Miami, said local Guatemalan
leaders asked for help with concerns about AIDS.

Illescas said many immigrants who come here don't know about the disease and
become infected. Then they go home and unknowingly spread the virus to their
families.

But Sergio Morales said he was there to talk about something else. "The big
problem right now is immigration," he said.

Morales said his organization, the Miami-based American-Guatemalan Association,
wanted to discuss how the Guatemalan government could help immigrants obtain the
paperwork they need to get U.S. driver licenses.

With many immigrants here illegally, they can't get the identification needed to
open a bank account or get car insurance, Morales said.

Berger spoke much about U.S. immigration reform on Saturday, when he also
visited Indiantown after leaving El Sol.

He said he would ask Bush for a moratorium on deportation and discuss local
leaders' concerns about pending immigration reform.

Berger also said his countrymen here are "heroes," thanking them for sending the
money they earn in the U.S. back to Guatemala, which he said serves as the
backbone of the economy there.

"You all have been the difference in helping change Guatemala for the better,"
Berger said.

ana_ceron@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 ERIK M. LUNSFORD/Staff Photographer Guatemalan President Oscar Berger visits
Jupiter's El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center on Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP TEST SHOULD FOCUS ON WHAT AMERICANS CARE ABOUT MOST

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 507 words


The U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services is developing a new
citizenship test for immigrants.

That's the good news. The bad news is that they're not asking the right
questions.

OK, first let me explain. Traditionally, the citizenship test has asked
applicants to regurgitate a few facts about our country's history.

But under a pilot program that begins this month in Miami and nine other cities,
immigrants are being asked a series of concept questions that require
explanations.

"A meaningful test will encourage civic learning and patriotism among
prospective citizens," the agency explained in a fact sheet about the change.

Here's one of the questions: "What does it mean that the U.S. Constitution is a
constitution of limited powers?"

The acceptable answers are: "The federal government has only the powers that the
Constitution states that it has," or "The states have all powers that the
federal government does not."

Let's test cultural literacy

I know what you're thinking. It's a good thing you don't have to take the test.

The department is still tinkering with the questions and hopes to develop a
solid list to be used nationwide by next year.

I have a few suggestions.

I agree that aspiring Americans should have an understanding of our government,
but I would widen the scope of the test to include questions that address
cultural literacy. Being an American means more than knowing how a bill becomes
a law. It means also knowing how a Puffy becomes a Diddy.

Basic citizenship, I would argue, also should include product awareness,
celebrity worship skills, and basic style pointers, such as: Once you're an
American, you should stop wearing socks under your sandals, renounce the metric
system and lose all interest in pro soccer.

Here are some actual questions from the new format, with my alternative
suggestions.

Real question: What type of economic system does the U.S. have?

My question: What type of meal do you order for children at McDonald's?

Real question: How many justices are on the Supreme Court?

My question: How many judges are on American Idol?

Real question: How old must a president be?

My question: How old must Joan Rivers be?

Real question: Name one example of checks and balances.

My question: Name one body part Britney Spears has shaved.

Real question: What does freedom of religion mean?

My question: What does "smart casual" attire mean?

Real question: Name one right or freedom from the First Amendment.

My question: Name one potential father for Anna Nicole Smith's baby.

Real question: What did the Declaration of Independence do?

My question: What did Janet Jackson do during the halftime show of Super Bowl
XXXVIII?

Real question: What is one thing a state government can do?

My question: What does Larry the Cable Guy get done?

Real question: Name one promise you make when you say the Oath of Allegiance.

My question: Name one of the Olsen twins.

Real question: Why were the colonists upset with the British government?

My question: Why was Jennifer Aniston upset with Angelina Jolie?

frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

DRILL HONES RESPONSE TO MASS REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: By ELIOT KLEINBERG and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Some immigrants made it to shore and gave up; others tried to run for it and
were tackled in the sand.

One was rumored to carry the deadly Ebola virus, and, it was already too late
for a few. Their "bodies" had washed ashore. Another 2,000 were still at sea.

It was all part of a simulated landing of Cubans fleeing their island for
Florida and the largest Homeland Security exercise ever carried out in the
state.

The scenarios recalled the madhouse Mariel boatlift of 1980 and the
Cuban-Haitian rafter crisis of 1994, when tens of thousands of desperate
would-be refugees headed for South Florida in small craft.

But in the post-9/11 world, South Florida needs to be much better prepared,
according to organizers of the drills.

"This exercise ... demonstrates our federal government's resolve to protect our
borders," said Coast Guard Rear Adm. David Kunkel, head of the Homeland Security
Task Force Southeast.

The simulated activities Wednesday involved interdicting those virtual
immigrants still at sea and controlling and aiding those who had made it ashore.

That kept more than 300 local, state and federal employees from at least 50
government agencies hopping from Key West to Palm Beach County.

The two-day virtual crisis, which continues today, includes a landing on the
beach in Boca Raton. Seven area hospitals are to be on alert. Most will take
"patients" only on paper, but at least one is expected to get live ones.

"The scenario is a mass migration leaving Cuba, the fall of the government and,
as a result, people taking to the sea," Kunkel said.

He said plans for the exercise were made before July 31, when it was revealed
that Cuban leader Fidel Castro was ill and was temporarily stepping down from
power. That news set off projections of unrest in Cuba and another boat crisis,
which has not come to pass.

Kunkel said the exercise "could be for any other nation. However, we do
recognize Cuba is clearly an area where we must be prepared."

Kunkel recalled flying in a Coast Guard helicopter over the Gulf Stream during
the hectic Mariel exodus 27 years ago, when 125,000 people came to Florida.

The goal of this exercise is to interdict at sea at least 95 percent of the
people trying to reach U.S. shores from Cuba and to return them to the island.
Another goal was to stop residents from taking to the water to try to pick up
would-be refugees, as they did during Mariel.

"Our message is we don't want them to take to the sea," Kunkel said. "It is
illegal and dangerous."

On Wednesday, about 150 people were reported to have reached the coast. One was
suspected of having Ebola, but after examination by responding health
professionals that was found to be false.

In Palm Beach County alone:

- About 9 a.m., a 27-foot boat landed at the Palm Beach Inlet. Eleven people
were believed to have been on board. Five were rounded up and taken to the
nearby Border Patrol station, but authorities were searching for six more.

- Around the same time, the sheriff's office stopped a 27-foot boat with five
people aboard just off The Breakers hotel in Palm Beach.

- About 11 a.m., five people landed at Phil Foster Park, near the southern tip
of Singer Island. They also were taken to the Border Patrol station.

- About 11:45 a.m., a report was received of four bodies washing ashore at
Spanish River Park in Boca Raton. Unlike other events, no "actors" participated
in that incident. Participants simply indicated how they would respond.

- About 2:15 p.m., at the Boynton Inlet, snowbirds watched from their lawn
chairs and picnic benches as a boat carrying five "refugees" -- all Palm Beach
County sheriff's deputies dressed in work clothes and red bandannas -- raced
through the inlet and into the Intracoastal Waterway, pursued by two sheriff's
patrol boats, their sirens blaring, and buzzed by a sheriff's helicopter.

The "refugee" boat beached at the county park on the south side of the inlet,
and the five jumped out and scattered.

But they didn't get far before deputies -- playing deputies -- tackled them. One
never got off the beach; others were captured nearby.

Deputy James Cobb ran down would-be escapee Michael Bickunas.

"He decided he was going to run from the old, fat guy. Just goes to show," Cobb
said, laughing.

eliot_kleinberg@pbpost.com

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GETTING READYFOR AN INFLUX

BYLINE: By ELIOT KLEINBERG and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Some immigrants made it to shore and gave up; others tried to run for it and
were tackled in the sand.

One was rumored to carry the deadly Ebola virus, and, it was already too late
for a few. Their "bodies" had washed ashore. Another 2,000 were still at sea.

It was all part of a simulated landing of Cubans fleeing their island for
Florida and the largest Homeland Security exercise ever carried out in the
state.

The scenarios recalled the madhouse Mariel boatlift of 1980 and the
Cuban-Haitian rafter crisis of 1994, when tens of thousands of desperate
would-be refugees headed for South Florida in small craft.

But in the post-9/11 world, South Florida needs to be much better prepared,
according to organizers of the drills.

"This exercise ... demonstrates our federal government's resolve to protect our
borders," said Coast Guard Rear Adm. David Kunkel, head of the Homeland Security
Task Force Southeast.

The simulated activities Wednesday involved interdicting those virtual
immigrants still at sea and controlling and aiding those who had made it ashore.

That kept more than 300 local, state and federal employees from at least 50
government agencies hopping from Key West to Palm Beach County.

The two-day virtual crisis, which continues today, includes a landing on the
beach in Boca Raton. Seven area hospitals are to be on alert. Most will take
"patients" only on paper, but at least one is expected to get live ones.

"The scenario is a mass migration leaving Cuba, the fall of the government and,
as a result, people taking to the sea," Kunkel said.

He said plans for the exercise were made before July 31, when it was revealed
that Cuban leader Fidel Castro was ill and was temporarily stepping down from
power. That news set off projections of unrest in Cuba and another boat crisis,
which has not come to pass.

Kunkel said the exercise "could be for any other nation. However, we do
recognize Cuba is clearly an area where we must be prepared."

Kunkel recalled flying in a Coast Guard helicopter over the Gulf Stream during
the hectic Mariel exodus 27 years ago, when 125,000 people came to Florida.

The goal of this exercise is to interdict at sea at least 95 percent of the
people trying to reach U.S. shores from Cuba and to return them to the island.
Another goal was to stop residents from taking to the water to try to pick up
would-be refugees, as they did during Mariel.

"Our message is we don't want them to take to the sea," Kunkel said. "It is
illegal and dangerous."

The Coast Guard said most of its activity during the drill will be virtual and
will not involve deployment of extra cutters and aircraft, which would be too
expensive just for a drill. A handful of helicopters and small boats will be
deployed, as well as cutters already on patrol duty.

But on land, some law enforcement, fire rescue and health department responders
are deploying real forces.

On Wednesday, about 150 people were reported to have reached the coast. One was
suspected of having Ebola, but after examination by responding health
professionals that was found to be false.

In Palm Beach County alone:

- About 9 a.m., a 27-foot boat landed at the Palm Beach Inlet. Eleven people
were believed to have been on board. Five were rounded up and taken to the
nearby Border Patrol station, but authorities were searching for six more.

- Around the same time, the sheriff's office stopped a 27-foot boat with five
people aboard just off The Breakers hotel in Palm Beach. They were transferred
to a Coast Guard cutter.

- About 11 a.m., five people landed at Phil Foster Park, near the southern tip
of Singer Island. They also were taken to the Border Patrol station.

- About 11:45 a.m., a report was received of four bodies washing ashore at
Spanish River Park in Boca Raton. Unlike other events, no "actors" participated
in that incident. Participants simply indicated how they would respond.

- About 2:15 p.m., at the Boynton Inlet, snowbirds watched from their lawn
chairs and picnic benches as a boat carrying five "refugees" - all Palm Beach
County sheriff's deputies dressed in work clothes and red bandannas - raced
through the inlet and into the Intracoastal Waterway, pursued by two sheriff's
patrol boats, their sirens blaring, and buzzed by a sheriff's helicopter.

The "refugee" boat beached at the county park on the south side of the inlet,
and the five jumped out and scattered.

But they didn't get far before deputies - playing deputies - tackled them. One
never got off the beach; others were captured nearby.

Deputy James Cobb ran down would-be escapee Michael Bickunas.

"He decided he was going to run from the old, fat guy. Just goes to show," Cobb
said, laughing.

- eliot_kleinberg@pbpost.com

- john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer 1. (C) A boatload of sheriff's deputies posing
as refugees lands in the Boynton Inlet, and the men try to evade authorities.
Officials staged exercises from Key West to Palm Beach County. 2. (B&W) Deputy
Polsner Enia of the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office lies in the grass
Wednesday as Deputy Charles Nicastro detains him.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS DRIVE OUT BLUE-COLLAR AMERICANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 162 words


In the March 18 Post, columnist Dan Moffett made the following specious
statement in "Bush still immigration realist": "Without the illegal workforce,
the nation cannot produce the goods and services needed to sustain itself." The
same argument was used throughout the South to justify slavery. The continued
exploitation of millions of illegal immigrant laborers or of legal "guest"
workers is tantamount to slavery.

Forty years ago, when I donned my blue collar and went to work, my wages
purchased 40 percent more than they do today, and that is for the same type of
work. The difference is that back then, we didn't have millions of surplus
illegal workers to drive down the wages.

If the American public continues to acquiesce to the presence and maintenance of
this artificial surplus of labor, the American blue-collar worker never again
will receive a fair day's pay for an honest day's work, and America slowly will
become a banana republic.

RICHARD A. SHERMAN

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK PROVOKED BY THE POST

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SAGA OPENS FILM FESTIVAL

BYLINE: By HAP ERSTEIN Palm Beach Post Film Writer

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 608 words


The mass migration to the United States in the early part of the 20th century is
depicted with a sense of wonderment and dread in Sicilian director Emanuele
Crialese's The Golden Door (Nuovomondo), tonight's opening selection at the 12th
annual Palm Beach International Film Festival.

Although marred by some overly arty touches, the movie depicts the arduous
journey from Italy to New York, and the curious entry rituals of Ellis Island,
with a surreal poignancy.

That otherworldly feeling begins with the film's opening images of barefoot
Salvatore Mancuso (Vincenzo Amato) and his son (Francesco Casisa), scrambling up
a rocky mountain in Sicily with stones in their mouths - a sign of devotion to
the religious wooden cross at the peak.

Their Old World existence is fraught with poverty and superstition, so when they
spy postcards of the New World showing doctored photographs of oversized
vegetables and trees that sprout coins in their branches, they pack what little
they have and begin the trek to this alleged land of plenty.

They move as a clan - Salvatore, his two sons and a pair of women from the
village who have somehow been promised to single men in America.

Near the dock, as their picture is being taken prior to embarkation, a
mysterious, cultured, English-speaking woman (Charlotte Gainsbourg of The
Science of Sleep) insinuates herself into their group, though her clothing and
manner prevent her from blending in with them. She, too, is headed to this
promised land, though where she comes from, exactly, is never made clear.

The film's second part takes place aboard the ship, in cramped, overpopulated
steerage quarters, but even they have been idealized without any suggestion of
the dubious hygiene of the ocean crossing.

Crialese (Respiro) begins the voyage with a stunning overhead shot of the port
and the crowd that remains behind as the ship slowly sails away. The
writer-director has the eye of an artist, even if some of his compositions are
too self-consciously composed.

It is a difficult voyage which many do not survive. Those who arrive in America
don't see the stirring sight of the Statue of Liberty because of an enveloping
fog that completes the journey with an additional eerie touch.

Still, the crossing seems humane next to the poking and prodding of the Ellis
Island staff, who subject these new arrivals to medical and mental tests, part
of the selection process to admit only the potentially productive. Those who
pass still need the approval of their sponsors and would-be spouses.

America is described as a country where the rivers flow with milk, and Crialese
takes the metaphor literally.

Add a few images of giant carrots and olives and the miracle of Salvatore's mute
younger son (Filippo Pucillo) suddenly speaking, and you have enough symbolism
to have made Fellini proud.

Another of the film's odd corners is the intrusion of a couple of
anachronistically modern soundtrack songs (Feeling Good and Sinnerman) that seem
awfully ill-advised.

Still, on balance, this is a stirring tribute to the tenacity of those
immigrants who left their admittedly meager lives to step off into the unknown.

And, perhaps wisely, The Golden Door ends just before they see the land that
will be their new home.

Screens at 7 p.m. today at the Sunrise Cinemas, Mizner Park, Boca Raton.
Information: (561) 362-0003. See complete film festival schedules in Friday's
TGIF.

- hap_erstein@pbpost.com

FILM REVIEW

Golden Door(Nuovomondo)

B+

Rated PG-13: For brief graphic nudity.

Running time: 2 hours (subtitled)

The verdict: The immigrant experience, Sicilian-style, artfully, and
occasionally too artfully, rendered by director Crialese.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Charlotte Gainsbourg (from left) as Lucy, Vincenzo Amato as Salvatore, Filippo
Pucillo as Pietro, Aurora Quattrocchi as Donna and Francesco Casisa as Angelo in
Miramax Films' Golden Door, which opens tonight at the 12th annual Palm Beach
International Film Festival at the Sunrise Cinemas in Mizner Park.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEED HELP? LET FOREIGN DOCTORS WORK IN OUR ERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 166 words


Phil Galewitz' March 28 article titled "Dad's death highlights 'inexcusable'
shortage of specialist in ERs," is another stunning example of Palm Beach
County's immigration problem. When just 12 of 92 gastroenterologists in the
county take emergency calls, it is clear that agricultural work isn't the only
type of job that Americans won't do.

Deciding whether to work in the ER is any doctor's right. However, this problem
could easily be resolved if our immigration laws weren't so draconian and
backlogged.

Just think, every hospital could be staffed with a qualified, licensed,
foreign-born doctor whose visa issuance could be made dependent on a commitment
to ER medicine for a specific time period, thus benefiting every member of
society who may potentially walk through that hospital's door.

Wake up, America. Immigration is a good thing.

SCOTT D. DEVORE

Palm Beach Gardens

Editor's note: Scott D. Devore is president-elect of the South Florida Chapter
of American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S ELECTORAL INFLUENCE TO GROW

BYLINE: By GERRY SMITH Palm Beach Post-Cox NewsService

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration is driving the growing electoral power of Texas and Florida as
census projections show a shift of congressional seats to those states, and
Republicans are expected to reap the biggest immediate gains, demographers say.

After the 2010 census, when House seats are redistributed based on population,
Texas will pick up three seats and Florida will pick up two seats. Six of the
seven states projected to gain seats in 2010 now lean Republican, according to
Mark Mather, a demographer at the Population Reference Bureau.

By 2030, Texas will gain eight seats and Florida will gain nine seats. And
Republicans could double their advantage in the Electoral College from 34 votes
to 68 votes if voting patterns remain unchanged, according to William Frey, a
demographer at the Brookings Institute.

But with Hispanic immigrants driving much of the population growth, the future
for Democrats may not be entirely grim, analysts say.

A 2006 exit poll by the Pew Hispanic Center found that 69 percent of Hispanics
voted for Democrats. And the party picked up two seats in both Florida and
Texas, said Doug Thornell, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.

But Rep. Tom Cole, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee,
dismissed the idea that Democrats have secured the Hispanic vote.

But illegal immigrants' long-term influence adds another facet to the
immigration debate in Congress, where a recently introduced House bill would
create a six-year visa each year for 400,000 guest workers.

Rob Paral, a research fellow with the Immigration Policy Center, a pro-immigrant
advocacy group, estimates there were eight districts with at least 100,000
illegal immigrants in 2005, including two in both Florida and Texas.

Paral predicts that as more undocumented workers flow into their districts,
lawmakers in both parties will likely show more sensitivity to issues of
importance to these immigrants.

But Gerald Hebert, a Democratic redistricting expert, said that the politics
involved with redistricting would ultimately determine the influence of
immigration on electoral politics.

"It all comes back to who gets control of the lines," Hebert said.

Republicans have the upper hand in Florida and Texas because they control both
chambers of the state legislatures and choose the officials who redraw the
boundaries, Hebert said.

But with the census still three years away, efforts are already under way in
both states to reform redistricting by putting the task in the hands of an
independent commission, a policy already being used in six other states.

Such a measure has already passed by the Texas Senate and is being considered by
the House.

In Florida, Common Cause, a nonpartisan advocacy group, is leading an effort to
put redistricting reform on the ballot.

Hebert said that "skewed partisan gerrymandering" in Florida is the reason that
Republicans hold a majority of the state's congressional seats.

But Rep. Tom Feeney, who was speaker of the House during Florida's last
redistricting, said it would be impossible to find a truly non-partisan
commission to redraw the lines.

~ gfsmith@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURAGEOUS LEADERSHIP ON IMMIGRATION MIA

BYLINE: Cynthia Tucker

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 757 words


When he announced his campaign for the U.S. Congress, Georgia state Sen. Jim
Whitehead said he was running for the seat left vacant by the February death of
Republican Rep. Charlie Norwood. But Sen. Whitehead sounds as though he's
running to replace Sen. Joseph McCarthy, the notorious Wisconsin Republican
whose commie-baiting smear tactics ruined lives and finally shamed his
colleagues.

Sen. Whitehead has aimed his demagoguery squarely at illegal immigrants --
perhaps legal too, since he rarely bothers with fine distinctions -- in a
campaign designed to whip up the worst instincts and impulses of his
constituents. No lie is too shameful to be left unspoken.

Proclaiming "immigration is the No. 1 issue" in the 10th Congressional district,
Sen. Whitehead contends that "left-wing political activists (are) intentionally
registering illegal aliens to vote, including known Al-Qaeda terrorists ...,"
according to Georgia political writer Tom Crawford.

Wow. That is so outrageous it's hard to know where to begin pointing out the
fallacies, but let's start with an obvious one: Since when do jihadists strike
at us by voting?

Sen. Whitehead may be among the worst of the politicians playing to the
jingoists, but he is by no means the only one. Recently, well-known nativist Pat
Buchanan unleashed an ugly tirade in response to the atrocity at Virginia Tech,
although Cho Seung-Hui and his law-abiding parents came to this country legally.

"Almost no attention has been paid to the fact that Cho Seung-Hui was not an
American at all, but an immigrant, an alien." Mr. Buchanan went on to denounce
the immigration statutes as policies that "threw the nation's doors open to the
greatest invasion in history, an invasion opposed by a majority of our people."

Actually, Cho's killing spree proved he was too much the American. (See
University of Texas and Columbine.) South Korean campuses are not known for
gun-toting madmen.

Democrats, meanwhile, have tended to propose thoughtful and rational immigration
policies -- when they've dared to propose anything. Lately, though, many leading
Democrats have been frightened into silence or, worse, backpedaling to escape
the finger-pointing of those who disparage as "amnesty" any attempts to legalize
those illegal immigrants already here.

Immigration is an issue desperate for courageous leadership, and it is suited to
President Bush's best instincts. A Texas upbringing engendered close
relationships with many Latinos; that voting bloc supported him heavily when he
ran for governor. He also understands that the future of the Republican Party
depends on its ability to open itself to diversity.

Beyond politics, there is a sound policy reason to support a rational
immigration policy that allows those illegal immigrants already here to start a
path toward citizenship: We need their labor. There are simply some jobs for
which there are too few available Americans willing to work at a rational price.
Here's one: care for the elderly. With the massive baby boomer cohort quickly
edging toward geezerhood, there are simply not enough caretakers available to
look after them.

Those Americans who've already had to help care for a parent know what they're
up against. Sure, you can hire a full-time LPN -- if you're Donald Trump or
Paris Hilton. You can hire round-the-clock nurses to care for a parent with
dementia -- if you're Warren Buffett or Bill Gates. Everybody else has to search
around for reliable caretakers who won't bankrupt their elderly clients within a
year or two. That labor crunch will only get worse in coming years.

Those same inescapable demographics require immigrant labor in a host of other
jobs, from factories to construction sites. The American population is getting
older, and we're not having enough children to replace our labor pool. We need
younger workers to replenish the economy and pay for our Social Security checks.

But it takes strong leadership to prevail against a nativist element that plays
to common fears and base prejudices. Bush, mortally wounded by his foolish war,
has no political capital left to spend within his own party.

That leaves opportunists such as Sen. Whitehead free to conflate Mexican
landscapers with Middle Eastern terrorists. His tactics are reminiscent not just
of Sen. McCarthy but also of George Wallace and Lester Maddox and Ross Barnett.
Their time eventually ended, but not before considerable damage had been done.

Cynthia Tucker is editorial page editor for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her e-mail address is cynthia@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SUPPORTERS SKEPTICAL OF PLAN, CONCEDE IT PROVIDES HOPE

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 513 words


Immigrant advocates in South Florida are skeptical of Thursday's U.S. Senate
proposal that could legalize millions of immigrants in the United States.

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Immigration Advocacy Center in Miami,
called the proposal "far from ideal," but said it's keeping hope alive that
those who have lived here and worked hard for years will one day have a chance
to legalize their status.

Little's concern is how long the process could take.

The Senate proposal, which received the support of President Bush, would allow
illegal immigrants to come forward and obtain a "Z Visa." After paying fees and
a $5,000 fine, they could begin their goal of obtaining permanent residency,
which could take eight to 13 years. Heads of households would have to return to
their home countries first.

"They'll be in legal limbo and their lives will still be on hold," Little said.
"Immigrant families want to get on with their lives and stop living in the
shadows. They want to finally be able to say, 'We're going to be able to realize
our dreams.' "

The proposal would shift an immigration system primarily weighted toward family
ties to one with preferences for people with advanced degrees and sophisticated
skills.

Haitian community activist Jean Lexima of West Palm Beach said the plan would
allow the country to weed out those with no educational background, which would
mean the majority of Haitians wouldn't be allowed into the country.

"For Haitians, probably 98 percent of the people are uneducated," Lexima said.

Lack of education is common in Haiti because of the poor economy and violent
political uprisings. Many parents try to send their children to the U.S.
illegally so they can receive free educations in a safe place.

"Life is scary over there," said Francette Ciceron of Boca Raton, who hosts a
talk show catering to Haitians on WPBR-AM 1340. "That's why most Haitians come
here. They do the jobs we think are lousy, like cutting grass, dish washing,
laying bricks. Even Americans won't do those jobs. Immigrants will do anything
to survive. For them, it's a blessing."

Although Little said the $5,000 fine would be difficult for immigrants to pay,
South Florida immigration attorney Mark Citrin called it "a bargain."

"To be able to emigrate to this country is worth a million dollars," Citrin
said. "When I see what people do to live in this country ... you'd be shocked."

The plan also would create a temporary worker program to bring new arrivals to
the U.S. A separate program would cover agricultural workers.

Local immigrant farmworker advocates are waiting to see how the proposed
agriculture jobs bill will be folded into the agreement.

Rob Williams of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project and Lisa Lochridge of the
Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association said they did not have enough
information to determine whether the proposal is a good thing for Florida farm
laborers or employers.

"The devil's in the details," Williams said. "We just don't know yet."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of a reporting error, The Palm Beach Post on Friday
incorrectly quoted Haitian community activist Jean Lexima as saying that 98
percent of the people in Haiti are uneducated. Lexima was referring to Haitian
refugees who arrived in the U.S. by boat in the 1980s. The error appeared in a
story about the U.S. Senate's latest immigration proposal on Page 17A of the
front section.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

UNLIKELY ALLIANCE

BYLINE: By LIZ BALMASEDA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1172 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


He is not afraid to give his name. Jonathan Sosa. He's 23, a carpenter, an
undocumented immigrant from the Quiche region of Guatemala, a young man who
might not be chattering so freely in public if he were in another city, one more
suspicious of his kind.

But here he is, talking on the record, even though there are two uniformed
sheriff's deputies standing just a few feet away outside the Indiantown Civic
Center.

"Jonathan Sosa," one of the deputies calls out as he reads from a handwritten
list.

The young man approaches the table where the deputies are verifying attendance
for a newly formed citizens academy. Just moments earlier, Sosa was going on
about how warmly he has been received in Indiantown since arriving here two
years ago from his homeland, by way of the U.S.-Mexico border.

"The story of this town is the story of welcome," he had said as a mix of fellow
Guatemalans and Mexicans began to gather outside the civic center, greeting one
another and catching up on the week's news as they waited for the community
meeting to start inside.

Now Sosa stands face to face with one of the deputies, putting his lyrical words
to the test.

The deputy asks for his driver license.

"I don't have one," Sosa replies.

The officer asks whom he works for.

"Different people," the carpenter replies.

The second deputy scratches his head.

"What am I going to do with you?"

The answer to that question comes as the doors open. The Martin County Sheriff's
Office welcomes the longhaired carpenter into the meeting.

A remarkable thing is happening inside. In this one-stoplight town nestled amid
the citrus groves of western Martin County, two alienated sectors of society are
coming together in a historic way.

Police, long isolated from a community they have trouble reaching, launched a
citizens academy to teach immigrants the inner workings of law enforcement. They
hope to build a league of volunteers to act as community liaisons.

The idea, police say, is not to breed snitches but to spread a vital message:
"If you need us, we're there."

That's tonight's guest speaker, deputy Larry Stripling, the school resource
officer at Indiantown Middle School. He speaks to the group about area youth
gangs.

"For us to do good police work, to get into the meat of the problem, the people
have to let us in. And the bad people aren't going to let us in," Stripling
tells the group of 40-plus immigrants, all of them bilingual, one of the few
requirements to join the eight-week training course.

"There's only so much you can see from a green-and-white. We have to protect the
little kids."

Such a night would be unheard of in places like Phoenix, where area police
departments have partnered with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to target
undocumented immigrants.

And in this era when the word illegal is code for people instead of drugs, when
the U.S.-Mexico border fence is a campaign mainstay, the Indiantown citizens
academy seems like a downright revolutionary concept.

"What's going on in Indiantown is working. They're sending out a powerful
message to the rest of the country. And they're sending out a powerful message
to the criminals as well," says John de Leon, a South Florida lawyer and civil
liberties advocate who represents several Indiantown immigrant families and
works as a consulting attorney for the Guatemalan Consulate in Miami.

"There's a clear understanding that the people who live in the community are
human beings, friends, neighbors, co-workers," he adds.

"That kind of attitude, you can't fake it."

If there is a revolution here, then the chief revolutionary wears a Martin
County sheriff's badge. Meet Capt. Lloyd Jones, patrol division commander for
Indiantown.

"You have to look at this from a human aspect. Our job is to serve the
community. We all have the same problems, whether we are legal or illegal. These
are just human problems," says Jones, who likes to use the word Samaritan to
describe the spirit of the citizens academy.

The black captain joined forces with local Guatemalan leaders some months ago,
as the community planned for a visit from Guatemalan President Oscar Berger in
February.

"I went to the captain to ask for help. He told me he had this dream of working
with the immigrant community," says Andres Cruz, a longtime Guatemalan community
advocate who owns a grocery store and restaurant in Indiantown.

"I'll never forget his handshake on the day when the president came to town. It
was firm and honest."

The alliance forged that day has surprised both police and community leaders.
They know the greatest obstacle to any such alliance is fear: the community's
widespread suspicion of law enforcement.

"That fear creates an environment where criminal culture is specifically
targeting people who are afraid to talk to the police," says Jones, who oversees
a staff of 25 that includes just two Spanish speakers, an officer and a victim's
advocate.

He tells the harrowing story of one case he cannot forget.

"Some time ago, we had an occasion where a lady was attacked and beaten while
she held her child in her arms, knocked down and just bloodied. And as we
proceeded with our investigation, it came to be known that there had been
several people in the same household where she lived who had been victimized --
multiple times."

The case reveals what has been a stark reality of immigrant life in Indiantown.
Many times, gangs and thugs target immigrants because they think nobody will
ever know.

"I refer to them as predators, to be honest with you," Jones says.

That kind of fear, he notes, is rooted many miles away from Indiantown. It is
rooted in the violence-ridden homeland that Cruz and many fellow immigrants
fled. But it also is compounded by an American reality: police-assisted
immigration raids.

Cruz says he has worked hard to tell his community that they need not be afraid
of this police department.

"We need to eliminate the fear of going to the police, the fear of greeting the
police, the fear of coordinating with the police," exhorts Cruz, who fled the
mountains of Huehuetenango in the war-torn 1980s.

Inside the civic center on this night, Amilcar and Azucena Lopez have brought
their two children, ages 8 and 11, to listen to the presentation on youth gangs.
He is Guatemalan, and she is Mexican. More essential to their attendance, they
say, is the fact that they are homeowners and longtime residents of Indiantown.

"We have advanced quite a bit in terms of the police," says Amilcar, 37. "We
used to think the police was the enemy of the people, but now we know their role
is one of service. ... They're trying to help the people integrate themselves
into the culture."

As the crowd shuffles out after the meeting, their captain lingers in the hall
for a while. It's nearly 10 p.m., and he has a long drive home. But he seems
content with the turnout and the camaraderie.

"These are beautiful people, a confident, intelligent people. And I love working
with them, helping to empower them," he says in a tone that approaches
reverence. "It has been beautiful."

~ liz_balmaseda@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C & 2 B&W)
 Staff photos by AMANDA VOISARD 1. (C) Antonio Tomas greets Martin County
sheriff's deputy Larry Stripling before a citizens academy meeting in
Indiantown. Authorities launched the eight-week training course this month,
hoping to build a league of volunteers to act as community liaisons in the
unincorporated town. 2. (C) Petrona and Victorino Mendoza watch a video on gangs
during a meetingin which deputies revealed the inner workings of law enforcement
to immigrants. 3. (C) Capt. Lloyd Jones, patrol division commander, Indiantown.
4. Deputy Larry Stripling, the school resource officer at Indiantown Middle
School, talks about area youth gangs to the group of 40-plus immigrants at the
citizens academy. In their alliance with residents, deputies hope to spread the
message: 'If you need us, we're there.' 5. Ruben Quezada signs up for the
academy at the Indiantown Civic Center, but minors Maria Miguel (left) and
Josefina Xuncax were not allowed to attend without their parents' permission.
The town's extraordinary alliance of law enforcement and immigrants has
surprised both authorities and community leaders.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RODOLFO ACEVEDO

SECTION: INSIDE LOCAL BUSINESS; Pg. 7F

LENGTH: 547 words


Distinction: Designed immigration centers for the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.

Place of business: Boca Raton

Recent accomplishments: Born and raised in Argentina, Rodolfo Acevedo knows the
plight of the immigrant firsthand. He moved to Florida in 1990, bunking at his
brother's house in Boca Raton with hopes of landing work as an architect.

His experiences and insight helped him create a welcoming gateway design for the
nation's immigration centers. His plans were chosen by the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security for its $120 million pilot program to re-brand these centers
in South Florida.

His design -- which includes a 25-foot Statue of Liberty etched in glass, a
lobby reminiscent of an upscale hotel and a play area for kids -- could become
the official blueprint for immigration centers throughout the country. The
project also is a certified green building for its eco-friendly design and
energy efficiency.

Given the nature of the buildings, he said, he looked at the most iconic
buildings and, of course, the Statue of Liberty.

"Shapes start taking place in your head," he said, "and you put it on paper. It
can be built economically."

Recalling the process of becoming a U.S. citizen, Acevedo notes his early days
in the United States, when he worked as a waiter in Deerfield Beach. His boss,
who immigrated from Ecuador, insisted that Acevedo bring his portfolio to work
each day.

When a local architect came in to dine, the boss pushed Acevedo to the table to
show his designs. The effort paid off when Acevedo was hired by Quincy Johnson,
founder of QJJMWAV Architects (Quincy Johnson, Jones, Myott, Williams, Acevedo,
Vaughn Architects) in Boca Raton.

The company, which once operated with four employees, including Acevedo, now has
52 in two offices (Boca Raton and Port St. Lucie).

"I started as a print boy, a gofer," Acevedo said. "But I was lucky. I always
had mentors." That was 17 years ago.

Before moving to the U.S., he worked as an architect in Argentina.

"The economy was bad in Argentina then, and I was in a dead-end job, " he said.
"I go back there once a year, but I never felt like it was my place."

How he forms his ideas is hard to explain, he said.

"Every time I start a new design, I have no idea what it's going to look like,"
he said. "I go with the flow until it starts shaping up. I start doodling, for
lack of a better word, and something pops up. Normally, I start with a floor
plan. Its like a self-feeding process."

Some of his favorite designs include the Magnolia clubhouse in Port St. Lucie, a
mixed-use building in Orlando and a 300-room resort being built in Costa Rica.

Acevedo, who speaks Spanish and French, hopes to build a home in Maine one day.
That's where he'd like to retire.

Education: Masters in architecture and urbanism from Universidad de Cordoba in
Argentina.

Age: 46

Personal: Separated; has a 6-year-old daughter, Gia; lives in Boca Raton.

Hobbies: Reading, especially fiction, action and mystery, and going to the gym.
He plans to learn how to play the piano.

Career highlight: "The breakthrough when I was given my job here as director of
design. Design is all I wanted to do."

Favorite quote: "Find something you love to do, and you'll never have to work
another day in your life." -- Harvey MacKay, author

- Mary Thurwachter

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MOVING UP

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 LIBBY VOLGYES/Staff Photographer Rodolfo Acevedo took time away from his
preferred work spot to pose with designs at QJJMWAV Architects in Boca Raton. 'I
love sitting at the drafting table, not answering the phone and drawing.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FROM IMMIGRATION BUZZ SAW TO JIGSAW

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 727 words


In a fairly remarkable turnabout, immigrant advocates now believe that their
greatest hope for getting a comprehensive reform bill from Congress lies not in
the Senate but in the House.

So much has changed over the course of one election year. It was only last
spring that -- with Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., sitting as speaker and Rep. James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chairing the Judiciary Committee -- the House passed an
immigration bill that was too draconian even for many conservatives.

The Hastert-Sensenbrenner version of reform made illegal immigrants felons and
threatened prosecution for charities and advocates who provided them
humanitarian aid. It treated soup kitchens like crack houses. But Rep. John
Conyers, D-Mich., now chairs the Judiciary Committee, and Rep. Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., is speaker.

Rep. Pelosi has made it clear that she does not approve of the immigration
reform bill now before the Senate. She believes that it fails to preserve family
unification principles that have been part of U.S. policy for decades and that
it gives too much weight to a point system that would favor highly skilled
immigrants. This aligns the speaker with immigrant advocate groups who share her
objections and believe that they are deal-breakers.

"Pelosi has made a strong statement for family reunification," says Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "There is more
political space in the House to make a clean start. There are so many
interlocking pieces to the Senate deal that it's hard to make any changes and
hold it together." The interlocking pieces in the Senate make for a legislative
Rubik's Cube. Amend one piece and you make the whole puzzle unacceptable to
someone in the bipartisan group of 12 senators who have been holding the complex
compromise together.

Two proposed amendments died quickly last week. Sen. Norm Coleman, R-Minn.,
sought to allow federal, state or local authorities to question people about
their immigration status if officials had probable cause. The idea was rejected
as a complication that raised civil rights concerns. Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D.,
wanted to end the proposed guest-worker program after five years unless Congress
reauthorized it. That idea died because no one wants to go through all this
again five years from now.

On Thursday, the Senate overwhelmingly rejected, 66-29, an effort to scuttle the
whole deal and bar any form of legal status for the 12 million illegal
immigrants in the country. So, support for legalization and the will to find
compromise remain strong.

The point system was created during the 11th hour of Senate negotiations two
weeks ago as a concession to Republicans who believe that unskilled immigrants
drive down wages for Americans. The system would score each immigrant on a
100-point basis according to work skills, education, English fluency, civics
proficiency and family connections. Skills and education would account for a
possible 75 points. To be considered for a green card, an applicant would have
to score at least 55 points.

Rep. Pelosi and House Democrats would be inclined to give more points for family
connections and employers' demand for workers. For example, though farmworkers
can't compete with high-tech engineers in skills or education, there's little
dispute that their contributions to the U.S. economy are essential and in high
demand. "There's a point system in Canada that tends to bring in people with
Ph.D.s who end up driving taxis," Mr. Sharry says. "We have to have a system
that maintains a close relationship to employers and families."

Congress has broken for a weeklong Memorial Day recess, and lawmakers will hear
plenty in their districts from constituents and lobbyists on both sides. Polls
consistently show that about two-thirds of Americans believe that the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants in the country should have a chance at legal
status, if they pay fines and play by the rules Congress passes.

If Congress can't agree on those rules within a month or so, nothing is likely
to get done until well after the 2008 presidential election. The perfect is
often the enemy of the good in Washington. But forget perfect. The debate has
grown so convoluted that the good is now the enemy of the possible.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH FLIP-FLOPS ON UNPATRIOT ACT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 707 words


Well, sir, it is a rare week when President George W. Bush gets caught
questioning the patriotism of conservative Republicans.

For six years, Mr. Bush has told anyone who questioned him to be a better
American, love the country more and shut up. Democrats who criticized the Iraq
War plan were dismissed as soft on terrorism or Al-Qaeda sympathizers. People
who worried about illegal searches and erosion of civil rights were told to stop
defending suicide bombers and be more like Dick Cheney.

Good Americans supported their president and bad Americans didn't. It was simple
enough until the debate on immigration reform got nasty. Nothing complicates
allegiances like trying to decide who should get a chance to be an American,
good or bad.

On Tuesday, President Bush was pushing his immigration plan during a speech to a
group of federal law-enforcement agents in Georgia. He had some harsh words for
the conservative base that actually believes it's feasible to round up 12
million illegal immigrants and bus them south of the border.

He accused his critics of not reading the bill and of using "empty political
rhetoric" to demagogue the issue. It was as if Mr. Bush were scolding a liberal
think tank. "The reform is complex," he said. "There's a lot of emotions around
this issue. Convictions run deep. Those determined to find fault with this bill
will always be able to look at a narrow slice of it and find something they
don't like. If you want to kill the bill, if you don't want to do what's right
for America, you can pick one little aspect of it you can use to frighten
people. Or, you can show leadership and solve this problem once and for all."

It was the "if you don't want to do what's right for America" part that made
conservatives bristle. The president never talks to his peeps that way. The
suggestion that they might not be doing what's right for America caused a
diplomatic stir.

A senior administration official had to try to clean things up with a
conciliatory remark to The New York Times: "In no way was he questioning
anyone's patriotism or desire to do what's right." The president has made a
career out of questioning the patriotism of Democrats and their desire to do
what's right. It isn't practical to question the patriotism of the entire
country.

Congress returns from its Memorial Day recess this week and will resume debate
on the comprehensive immigration bill. President Bush and Ted Kennedy will line
up on the same side and chide conservatives together, preferably without
questioning anyone's patriotism.

Conservatives never could have imagined a Bush-Kennedy alliance on this issue,
but, then, the president's dad is tight with Bill Clinton, so stranger things
have happened. President Bush and Sen. Kennedy have been using virtually the
same language to deflect criticism that the bill rewards lawbreakers:

"If you want to scare the American people," they say, "you call this an amnesty
bill." The administration that has relied on fear to govern now wants a
moratorium on scaring the American people.

The president probably can't hope to convince conservatives that his immigration
plan isn't amnesty, but he might be able to quiet them long enough to prevent
defections among moderates. He can make the case that the government will spend
$10 billion this year to protect the U.S.-Mexico border, twice what it spent six
years ago. Arrests on the border are down 27 percent, an indication that new
security measures are working and fewer migrants are trying to cross.

There's no shortage of skepticism, however, over whether the government is
capable of running a guest-worker program efficiently and whether workers will
find enough incentives to participate. For many immigrants, the fines and back
taxes required would equal a year's work.

"If you're interested in securing the border," the president says, "wouldn't you
rather have Border Patrol agents chasing down terrorists and gun runners and
dope runners as opposed to people who are coming to do jobs Americans aren't
doing?" The idea of chasing down terrorists used to appeal to conservatives.
You've got to give the president credit for trying.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                                 NORTH EDITION

MISSIONARIES' HEALTH CLINIC GODSEND FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SUSAN R. MILLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 806 words


It's been nearly five years since Frances and Ron Maggard, well-traveled
missionaries, set up their small clinic on Center Street in Jupiter.

In the early days, Carelink International Clinic, which is housed in what once
was a garage, offered health screenings for diabetes, high cholesterol and colon
cancer.

But those who sought care, mostly immigrant day laborers, were more interested
in being treated for bumps, bruises, colds and other minor ailments. The
Maggards complied and the patients kept coming.

"It has just snowballed since then, grown way faster than what we ever thought
possible. It took on a life of its own," said Frances Maggard, who does
everything from answer the phones to assess patients.

Carelink sees as many as 500 people each month or 2,000 patient-visits each
year. Of the 1,093 patient visits in a six month period, 876 were new, which
suggests "an expanding operation," said Paul Gionfriddo, executive director of
Quantum Foundation, which has provided the clinic with several grants, most
recently $160,000 for two years.

"More and more people are knocking at the door. It's pretty good for a little
clinic operation," he said.

These days it's not just those with minor ailments who come. The clinic, in
partnership with the nonprofit Jupiter Medical Center and its doctors, has been
saving lives.

Jesus Velasquez says without Carelink, he might not be here today.

The 63-year-old, who came to the United States 40 years ago from Honduras, was
diagnosed with lung cancer in February. Retired, uninsured and not yet eligible
for Medicare, Velasquez returned to his homeland for treatment. There, the
uninsured can receive free care. Doctors removed part of his lung and told him
he needed chemotherapy. But the wait for treatment extended far beyond the date
on his return ticket.

Back home in Port St. Lucie, wife Sonia was working the phones, trying to find
help. A neighbor referred her to Carelink.

"Doors were opened that I could never have opened on my own. She found the
people that could give him chemo," said Sonia Velasquez, referring to Frances
Maggard. Jesus has undergone two of six scheduled chemotherapy treatments and
the couple is hopeful.

"This has meant my husband's life," said Sonia, her eyes welling with tears.

Options for indigent

Without the clinic, patients might not get care, or end up in emergency rooms.

To get help, patients must make no more than 150 percent to 200 percent above
federal poverty guidelines. Individuals who fall under that category make no
more than $15,000 to $20,000 a year.

Typically, hospitals put a $300 to $500 price tag on ER visits. And when as many
as 1,000 patients head to the clinic instead of the ER, it's a significant
savings, Gionfriddo said.

Carelink estimates it provides about $2 million in free care annually through
the doctors who come in on the weekend or who offer services in their offices.
Patients come from as far as Fort Pierce and Wellington.

Beacon Baptist Church, which is across the street from the clinic, provides the
building and utilities. Donations from the community help to fill in the
financial gaps. In addition to doctors and nurses, other volunteers help to keep
the place running, making phone calls, coordinating care and tracking down
patients, many of whom are undocumented workers with no permanent address.

Expanding to Guatemala

Recently, volunteer Hugo Bustamonte was trying to get help for a 37-year-old
Guatemalan who has lived in this country for 10 years illegally. He has no
insurance and was diagnosed with stomach cancer while living in Nebraska. Like
Velasquez, he received surgery elsewhere, but desperately needed chemotherapy.
Unable to work, the man moved to Jupiter to live with his brother, who took him
to Carelink.

"He's metastasized and he really needs the treatment. That's why we are
desperate. We are at the end of the line and we need to help, otherwise it will
advance," Bustamonte said.

But the man received surgery using another name. It took time for Carelink to
track down his medical records.

"It's sad, but for a lot of them, it's hard to track records," said Maggard. "We
encourage them not to lie because it causes too much problems, too much
confusion."

The Maggards hope to expand the clinic to land owned by a nearby church that is
moving, or to build a larger facility on the land where they are now. They also
are in the process of building a clinic in Guatemala. The land has been
purchased and cleared. Now it's just a matter of getting the money to build.

They've applied for some grants and are trying to find someone who will write
grants on a contingency basis. The caring comes easy; it's the money that's the
challenge. They need about $40,000.

"We are not business people, we are people people. We love people and want to
help them anyway we can," Maggard said.

- susan_miller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) Frances Maggard: Says clinic has grown faster than expected. (mug) 2.
(B&W) ERIK M. LUNSFORD/Staff Photographer Sonia and Jesus Velasquez say Jesus
might not be here today if it hadn't been for the clinic. He was diagnosed with
lung cancer and would've had to wait longer for chemotherapy without the clinic.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLINTON CONDEMNS REPUBLICAN'S CUBAN-TERRORIST REMARK

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: LAKE BUENA VISTA


Hillary Clinton said Saturday she is "appalled" by remarks made by Republican
Fred Thompson suggesting that some Cuban refugees could be terrorists.

Thompson, an actor and former Tennessee senator, spoke about Cuban refugees
Wednesday during an appearance in South Carolina.

The topic was illegal immigration and Thompson's opposition to any legislation
that does not do enough to protect America's borders.

Using Cuban refugees as an example, Thompson said, "I don't imagine they're
coming here to bring greetings from Castro. We're living in the era of the
suitcase bomb."

Speaking to a group of Hispanic supporters attending a Walt Disney World
convention of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials, Clinton, New York's junior Democratic senator, said, "I was appalled
when one of the people running for, or about to run for, the Republican
nomination talked about Cuban refugees as potential terrorists."

She said Thompson, "apparently doesn't have a lot of experience in Florida or
anywhere else, and doesn't know a lot of Cuban-Americans."

Clarifying his remarks, Thompson posted a response on his Web site,
imwithfred.com, saying he understands how important Cuban-Americans have been to
this country. He also noted that the Cuban government remains on the state
department's terrorist list.

That is "why we must oppose the illegal immigration of Castro's agents into the
United States while welcoming the vast majority who immigrate legally and with
legal intentions," Thompson said.

Clinton was the only candidate of seven visiting the convention who spoke at any
length about Cuba.

Responding to prepared questions from the Latino organization, the candidates
talked about immigration, Iraq, health care and education.

Illinois Sen. Barack Obama defended a vote he cast supporting a fence along the
border with Mexico, saying he had no choice because there were other elements of
the immigration bill that he thought were important.

"Nobody has been a more consistent supporter of comprehensive immigration reform
than I have been," Obama said. "Do I think fences make good neighbors and are
the right approach? I don't believe that."

Former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards said he believes in tougher border
security and establishing a reasonable way for illegal immigrants to gain legal
status.

"I would never be for a wall all across our southern border," Edwards said.

Several candidates spoke about having closer relations with Mexico and
encouraging its government to improve economic opportunity for its citizens.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, the only Hispanic candidate, said, "As
president, I will not militarize the border." He called immigration a civil
rights issue and chastised the news media for showing pictures of immigrants
crossing the border illegally but not of them as farmworkers, hotel workers and
employees of other businesses.

U.S. Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware said Mexico is "one of the wealthiest
countries in the hemisphere" and the Mexican government should use that wealth
to help its people find jobs there.

"I would have a serious discussion with the government of Mexico about providing
opportunity for its people," Biden said.

Connecticut Sen. Christopher Dodd and Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich also called for
closer relations with Latin America.

Immigration has been a hotly discussed topic in both the Republican and
Democratic campaigns for president. Supporters of immigration reform --
including President Bush -- were handed a major defeat last week when they could
not get enough votes in the Senate to continue debate on the bill.

Opponents say the bill would give amnesty to about 12 million undocumented
immigrants living in America.

~brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Hillary Clinton (mug) 2. Fred Thompson (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MARTINEZ CALL FOR ACTION ON IMMIGRATION SELF-SERVING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 154 words


I read with interest the article "Martinez presses immigration bill opponents
for action" (June 30). While one can understand Florida Republican Sen. Mel
Martinez's desire to assist poor Hispanics, to solidify the Hispanic vote and to
provide payback pork and cheap labor to fruit growers and builders, this
so-called amnesty bill clearly was not the way to do it and would have been
antithetical to the interests of the American people.

These are illegal immigrants, for heaven's sake -- millions of them. To strap
the American people with the billions upon billions of dollars in Medicare,
Medicaid, food stamps, education and other costs for illegal immigrants is
insane by any standards. It is one more reason (together with being inaccessible
to his constituents by phone, fax and every other reasonable means) that Sen.
Martinez has lost my vote and, I hope, the votes of clear-thinking Floridians.

CLARENCE R. RYDBERG

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROUP EXPLORES BROADWAY DAY-LABORER ISSUE

BYLINE: Tim Pallesen

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 656 words


A private group has emerged to tackle the problem of the day laborers who
distract from Broadway redevelopment as they wait along the street for a job.

Two property owners have teamed with two nonprofit experts to propose an
off-Broadway work and resource center for immigrants. Mayor Lois Frankel already
has suggested that a former synagogue be moved to the site.

The plan surfaced at July 9 workshop when city commissioner Molly Douglas said
she is working on the center idea with a "loose group" whose members have
backgrounds in both nonprofit work and business.

The group includes Broadway property owners Keith Miller of Palm Beach
Properties and Duane MacPhail of Palm Beach Yachts. Immigration attorney Aileen
Josephs, who serves on the board of a Jupiter work center, and Wellington
businessman German Fernandez have experience with other nonprofits that give
help to immigrants.

Broadway property owners want the immigrants off the street so townhouses can be
built to transform a nine-block stretch of the north-south thoroughfare. One
block between 40th and 41st streets is known now as a spot where employers can
pick up Spanish-speaking immigrants from Guatemala and Mexico as cheap manual
labor.

"That's not a good thing if you are trying to redevelop an area," Miller said.

The work center would match workers with employers indoors and out of sight. Day
laborers who don't get a job could attend English classes at the center.

"English as a second language alone is going to be a great benefit to our
community," Douglas said. She envisions a resource center where immigrants can
learn basic life skills and avoid becoming victims of crime. Miller said his
group also wants a preschool at the site where Spanish-speaking children would
get a head-start to learn English.

The group hasn't bought a site or determined how to pay operating costs. Miller
said organizers will approach Catholic Charities of Palm Beach Inc., which
provides social services to immigrants at the El Sol work center that opened in
Jupiter this year.

To save on construction costs, Frankel suggested Palm Beach County's first
Jewish temple, which now sits near Currie Park where a developer wants to build
a condominium.

To save the 1920s temple from demolition, Jewish leaders and local historians
have searched to find a site where it could be moved. An engineer in 2005
estimated the renovation cost as $650,000.

City event honored: Kaleidoscope, the annual multicultural celebration for
schoolchildren, has earned West Palm Beach a Livability Award from the U.S.
Conference of Mayors.

Miami, Honolulu, Louisville and Oklahoma City also were recognized for
outstanding achievements such as crime and poverty programs. But Kaleidoscope
was the only event to be honored by the national group for making a city more
livable.

"They recognized that it's not just an event. It's a complete learning and
sharing of cultures," said Mary Pinak, the city's community events manager.

Kaleidoscope pairs public schools with cultural groups each year to study the
customs, history, arts and food of individual countries for four months. Each
school then creates an Epcot-like village for their country at a January event
for the public outside the West Palm Beach Library at which students often dance
in elaborate costumes and prepare cultural foods.

"The celebration of Kaleidoscope gives all the students in our district the true
experience of connecting academics with culture," schools superintendent Art
Johnson said. "It is the best opportunity for them to learn by entertaining, and
teach our diverse community."

The U.S. Conference of Mayors based its awards on creativity, innovation, impact
on the quality of life and mayoral leadership.

"Kaleidoscope is a celebration of the many cultures that make our city great,"
Mayor Lois Frankel said.

Tim Pallesen writes about news in West Palm Beach neighborhoods. Reach him at
(561) 820-4833 or tim_pallesen@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  West Palm Beach / Palm Beach

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer The annual multicultural event
Kaleidoscope, shown here in January, earned West Palm Beach a livability award
from the U.S. Conference of Mayors. The children's event matches schools with
cultural groups to study a specific culture. The students then prepare a village
to celebrate that culture during Kaleidoscope. 2. LIBBY VOLGYES/Staff
Photographer Mayor Lois Frankel suggests moving Temple Beth Israel, the oldest
synagogue in Palm Beach County, to Broadway to use as an immigrant resource
center.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PRIORITY, CLINTON, OBAMA TELL HISPANIC GATHERING

BYLINE: BY JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH


They both obviously had done their homework.

The occasion was the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza, a
large Hispanic civil rights organization.

U.S. Sens. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, Democrats vying for the
presidential nomination, arrived knowing their talking points: immigration,
education, health care. All are issues traditionally crucial for Hispanic
voters.

The difference was that Obama had another arrow in his quiver -- his opposition
to the Iraq war from Day One.

Clinton initially voted to give President Bush the power to go to war in Iraq,
although she has become an opponent of the war. She made no mention of the
conflict Sunday. But Obama drove home his point that the lack of money for
social programs important to Hispanics was partly due to the war.

"We are spending $275 million per day on the war," he told a crowded hall at the
Miami Beach Convention Center. "It is time for us to start bringing our troops
home."

He also told the crowd that Hispanics are overrepresented in the military and
are at risk. His comments drew one of the loudest ovations of the day.

Krista Cardona, 26, a university recruiting officer from Bloomington, Ill.,
cited Obama's opposition to the war as a principal reason she supports him. "He
just speaks to my generation," she said, "first, because he will pull out of
Iraq if he is elected."

Manuel Gutierrez, 41, of Miami-Dade County, saw it differently. He arrived "a
Hillary supporter" and left on the same side.

"With her experience in both the White House and the Senate, there just isn't
anybody else with her knowledge of how things should work here in the U.S.," he
said.

Meanwhile, after listening to both Clinton and Obama, Gary Vargas, 49, of
Kenosha, Wis., was found wandering the convention hall with stickers for both of
the candidates on his jacket.

"I'm still undecided," he said. "Clinton is someone we've known a long time. She
has always been a friend to Hispanics, especially on the education and health
care issues. But Obama's the new kid on the block and he did very well here
today. I've liked his position on the war all along, and if he sticks too it, he
just may get my vote."

Immigration was the most emotional issue of the day, but the two candidates
espoused the same positions. Both said they would press for comprehensive
immigration reform in their first term as president and work to end widespread
raids by immigration agents. Such changes would legalize some 12 million
undocumented workers in the United States, most of whom are Hispanic.

Clinton said the recent debate over immigration in Washington had become
"venomous" at times, while Obama decried what he said were "racist" positions
some opponents to the reforms have taken.

Both senators attributed the virulent opposition to immigration reform among
some conservative voters to Bush's economic policies, which they said had
injured the middle class.

"There has been a serious reversal in the lives of many Americans when it comes
to their economic well-being," Clinton said. "They are looking at someone or
something to point the finger at," and that has been immigrants, she said.

Obama said: "When people are insecure economically, that is when they obsess
about undoing the economic opportunities of other people -- immigrants. We are a
nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. The two things are compatible."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W)
 1. Hillary Clinton (mug) 2. Barack Obama (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 258 words


PORT ST. LUCIE -- An inmate who escaped at about 8:30 p.m. Thursday from an
Immigration and Customs Enforcement van that was parked at the Port St. Lucie
turnpike plaza was found about three hours later, according to a police report.
Genivaldo Mendes Pereira, 25, was found in a wooded lot near Southwest Todd
Avenue and Heather Street, according to the report. Pereira had stripped to his
underwear and socks and was found after a search that included Port St. Lucie
police, the St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office, the Florida Highway Patrol and
customs officers. Officials said Pereira had jumped from the rear doors as the
van was parked at the plaza. He ran east toward Southwest Macedo Boulevard and
then into an industrial area, according to the report. Port St. Lucie K-9
officer Colin Duncombe spotted Pereira at about 11 p.m. A sheriff's helicopter
pinpointed his location and a deputy apprehended Pereira with the help of his
K-9, according to the report.

Martin County sheriff's investigators Thursday charged a Tropical Farms man with
several burglaries in his neighborhood and recovered much of the stolen property
from his home, according to arrest records. Daniel Brobst, 25, of 1252 S.W.
Sunshine St. was charged with burglarizing three homes, a shed and a vehicle on
various dates in June and July. He was held at the Martin County jail Friday in
lieu of $62,500 bail. Jason Ward, 20, who lives at the same address as Brobst,
was charged in connection with one burglary at a home in the neighborhood. He
was held in lieu of $12,500 bail.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DHS AND CENSUS WALK INTO A BAR ...

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 688 words


Were it not for the tragic farce in Iraq, it would be much easier for Americans
to enjoy the incompetence of government.

They could look at the chronic mismanagement, bureaucratic bungling and
proliferation of bad ideas in Washington and find comic relief from the dog days
of summer.

Were it not for the tragic fiasco in Iraq, the federal government's all-around
ineptitude would be the biggest joke on the planet.

If you need a really good belly laugh, U.S. immigration policy is always the
right place to look. The past couple of weeks have been priceless.

Get this one: The Census Bureau is supposed to count everyone in the country in
2010. The bureau says it will be very difficult to count illegal immigrants, if
the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency insists on cracking down on them
and driving them underground.

So the census people are asking immigration agents to suspend enforcement raids
so the counters can go out and do their job.

Think of it as one big national timeout. It will sort of be like spending a year
in Canada. ICE agents can catch up on vacation time, and immigrants can earn
some extra cash. Odds are 2010 will turn out to be a boom year for the economy.

Of course, the fear is that U.S. citizens -- whites, blacks, Hispanics, Asians,
etc. -- will demand equal time and a year off from following federal laws, too.
While cutting immigrants some slack is good for the economy, doing it for
everyone else is probably bad. But the potential entertainment value is obvious.

More comic relief has come from Michael Chertoff, the secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security.

Mr. Chertoff, having failed to persuade Congress to pass a comprehensive reform
bill this year, decided to launch his own crackdown against companies that
employ illegal immigrants.

That meant doing something about Social Security fraud. Mr. Chertoff announced
new rules under which DHS will toughen enforcement of "no match" letters the
Social Security Administration sends to businesses that have workers with
questionable identities. A "no match" letter tells an employer that the names or
Social Security numbers of employees are different than those that the
government has on file.

Typically, a "no match" letter draws about as much attention as a sparrow flying
through Wyoming.

But Mr. Chertoff has promised to change that. He says, beginning next month, DHS
no longer will consider the letters polite notification but evidence of
"constructive knowledge" that an employee is not authorized to work. Companies
that have "constructive knowledge" are liable for fines of up to $11,000 per
unauthorized worker.

The absurdity of the mathematics in this federal offensive is humorous in
itself. The government is expected to send out 140,000 "no match" letters --
Florida figures to get at least 20,000 -- that could affect as many as 8 million
employees.

This would suggest that enforcement agents won't be able to give the Census
Bureau that break in 2010 because they'll be too busy chasing down letters from
2007, 2008 and 2009.

Mr. Chertoff and the Bush administration appeared quite pleased with their
initiative until connoisseurs of bureaucracy uncovered an unfortunate glitch:
The Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration
aren't allowed to talk to each other.

Privacy laws prevent sharing of Social Security information with other agencies.
So while Mr. Chertoff might like to go after employers who hire workers with
fake ID numbers, the law prohibits him from trying to find out who they are.

DHS has a Plan B, however. Of course, everyone in Washington has a Plan B or C
for immigration.

Mr. Chertoff's backup position is that his agency will rely on tipsters to
voluntarily come forward and turn in employers who are breaking the law. It's
kind of a "don't ask, but please tell" policy.

If you're thinking, "Well, wait a minute, this sounds just like how the system
works, or rather doesn't work, right now," you are correct.

So go ahead and enjoy a good laugh on your federal government.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION ISSUE GNAWS AT GROWERS

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Without a way to get workers with proper documentation to harvest fruits and
vegetables, Florida and the nation could slide into an economic downturn,
Florida Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson warned Tuesday.

Not only that, but foreign countries will supply even more of the nation's food,
Bronson told more than 200 people at the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association's
64th annual convention at the Boca Raton Resort and Club.

"I am getting so aggravated with the mood in Congress right now about the fruit
and vegetable migrant worker situation," Bronson said. "Sides have been taken to
the point where no one is willing to move."

Accusing Congress of using the issue as "a whipping boy," Bronson added that
"the farmworker side of this issue could have been settled long before now."

Earlier in the day, produce industry representatives from Texas, California and
Florida expressed their own frustration with Congress' lack of action on the
issue. They said immigrant labor, mostly from neighboring Mexico, is critical to
keeping down the costs of U.S. food production.

"We have to convince the American people that these are not jobs Americans want
to do," said Tom Nassif, president and CEO of the Irvine-Calif.-based Western
Growers Association.

Emanuel Lazopoulos, chairman of the Washingto.-based United Fresh Produce
Association, said it's difficult to understand how politicians in Washington
have not done anything about the problem.

Meanwhile, 10 million to 12 million illegal workers are doing jobs Americans
won't do, said Lazopoulos, who is also senior vice president of Fresh Del Monte
Produce Inc. in Coral Gables.

While immigration reform has stalled, the produce industry has seen progress in
another major area -- food safety. Friday was the one-year anniversary of the
first reports of the E. coli outbreak in California-grown spinach. The outbreak
killed three people and sickened 205 others.

Since then, growers and handlers of California leafy green vegetables, Florida
tomatoes and leafy greens have implemented stricter uniform food safety
agreements that require among other things, testing workers, equipment, water,
soil and fertilizer.

Scott Horsfall, chief executive of the California Leafy Greens Marketing
Agreement, said being part of the pact is voluntary.

But once a handler joins, he said the company is obligated to allow regular
audits conducted by state inspectors.

"Our objective is to minimize the risk of food-borne illness," Horsfall said.
"We don't want any tainted product."

Western Palm Beach County's Glades growers produce almost all the state's
commercial romaine, endive, iceberg and escarole lettuce, and baby spinach. They
have approved a pact similar to California's. It has been adapted to Florida's
terrain and climate.

While there's never been a contamination problem associated with produce in the
Glades, leafy greens growers and packers there decided to take a proactive
stance, said Rick Roth, president of Roth Farms.

"A valid point was made today," he said. "Nobody can guarantee somebody won't
get sick. We are going to do everything we can to stay on top of it and prevent
it."

~susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer Emanuel Lazopoulos (center) and Mike Stewart
(right) participate on a panel in Boca on Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUREAUCRATS, PROSECUTORS OUT OF CONTROL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 148 words


I am so proud to be an American. I am proud that our brave customs agents are
stealing $59,000 from illegal Guatemalan immigrant Pedro Zapeta because he
failed to fill out the right form. Our government prosecutors deserve credit,
too. Upon realizing that the general public looks at them as fools, they are
threatening to have the IRS confiscate the thousands of dollars in donations
that real Americans are sending to Mr. Zapeta.

What is happening to Mr. Zapeta is a reflection of not only a hypocritical
immigration policy, which rewards businesses that hire illegal immigrants to
increase profit margins, but of government officials who have lost touch with
reality. The real enemy of the American people is not illegal immigrants,
religious fanatics or Communists. The biggest threat to the American public is
American government bureaucrats and government prosecutors.

JIM WEIX

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK Attitudes on immigration all over
map

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 AMANDA VOISARD/2006 Stafffile photo Pedro Zapeta, a Guatemalan immigrant, sits
in the conference room at The Injury Law Offices of John T. Kennedy in Stuart in
October 2006. Mr. Zapeta hired immigration lawyer Marisol Zequeira to aid him in
retrieving his $59,000 in savings that was taken from him because the money was
not declared while he was passing through customs at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood
International Airport on his way home to Guatemala.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NORTH TO FREEDOM

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2279 words


A stack of white papers can usually be found in the office at Our Lady of
Perpetual Help. They are for the desperate, the scared, the undocumented. At
this Delray Beach church, that includes at least a quarter of the congregation.

The forms can help them get to Canada. And lately, they seem to be the people's
only hope.

"They're gone? But we had so many," the Rev. Roland Desormeaux says to his
office assistant one October morning, rubbing his face in frustration. "OK,
well, we need to get more. Soon."

Haitians from across South Florida contact Desormeaux almost daily, frustrated
that they've been denied asylum, pleading for help from a church built by
immigrants.

"I'm afraid to drive my car." "I had to quit my job." "How can I care for my
family?" they ask.

Before, Desormeaux had no answers. He had only prayers to offer and occasionally
money if the church had enough to spare.

Now he tells them about Canada.

Haitians are fleeing there by plane, train, van, sometimes by foot. Any way they
can, any time they can to seek refuge in a country willing to accept them.

They uproot their families and leave belongings behind, hoping to find relief in
a northern nation so very opposite of the tropical life they know.

With its frigid temperatures, winter coats and streets buried in snow, life in
Canada is different.

But there they taste freedom.

'They just keep coming'

The bridge is called the Ambassador.

The link between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, it's a busy route for tourists
and businesspeople crossing the Detroit River. And it's a lifeline for refugees.

You can see it through the dusty windows of an old brick building called Freedom
House, home to one of many American programs that help people seek asylum in
Canada or the United States.

Painted on a stake in the front yard of this house are the words "Let peace
prevail on Earth." Many inside are victims of torture and sex crimes, some
punished for political and personal beliefs. They are here for a better life.

Some arrive with hopes of fleeing to Canada, where a temporary rule exists that
exempts Haitians from deportation. Once inside the country, even if a Haitian is
denied refugee status, Canada allows that person to stay, unless he has a
criminal record, because Canada deems Haiti unsafe. America does not.

News of the existence of this one simple rule has spread like wildfire this
year, tempting undocumented Haitians in South Florida and other parts of the
United States. Some make it to the border on their own and walk across to claim
refugee status. Others use programs such as the Freedom House -- modern-day
underground railroad stops for the desperate and the weary.

Earlier this year in Detroit, Haitians arrived in droves.

"Sometimes we sit at the door and (see) another truckload of Haitians,"
Executive Director Pegg Roberts said then. "They just keep coming. And they're
going to keep coming."

But when the Canadian border there lost its Creole-speaking interpreter,
Haitians began flocking to other border entries, such as New York and Vermont.

Soon those programs were overwhelmed. The Vermont Refugee Assistance Program
helped scores of Haitians into Canada earlier this year but had to halt its
assistance in July.

"We're suspended until I can hire somebody who will just work with
Canada-bound," says Michele Jenness, a program staffer. "The demand overwhelmed
our resources."

From April to July, they had 299 inquiries about refugee status in Canada. In
those three months, Director Patrick Giantonio and Jenness helped 166 people get
into Canada. Of that number, 157 were Haitian.

"We're (seeing) a Haitian exodus," Giantonio says. "Every day we get several
calls from South Florida. The word has been spreading through the Haitian
community that if you want to go to Canada and seek asylum, you can do it."

'Like night and day'

Rick Goldman, an attorney and coordinator of the Committee to Aid Refugees, an
advocacy group in Montreal, says an estimated 1,500 Haitians have made refugee
claims to Canada this year, an increase of more than 50 percent over last year.

Sixty-six percent of those claims have been accepted, compared to an estimated
50 percent accepted in the United States last year.

"Even if the claims are rejected, Canada is not removing people to Haiti,"
Goldman says. "We have no idea how long that will last. Some of the people
coming here, even though they realize they might not stay permanently, being
somewhere without fear is in and of itself a good thing. You're not in fear of
being picked up any moment. Your kids can go to school. You can get a work
permit. What Canada offers compared to what the States doesn't offer is like
night and day to most people."

Those who run the programs to help refugees keep low profiles and are often
squeamish around the media. They have only so many volunteers and so much money.
The more publicity, the more crowded their offices become.

Roberts says U.S. immigration officials know about them.

Roberts and Giantonio say that none of their volunteers has been arrested for
helping refugees cross.

But late last month, Canadian officials arrested an American for driving 12
Haitian refugees to the Canada border -- a warning to other volunteers that they
could be next.

Janet Hinshaw-Thomas, a 65-year-old refugee advocate from Chester, Pa., is
charged with human smuggling, which is punishable by life in prison.

Those destined for the Canadian border are warned that they could be arrested.

Roberts and Giantonio also advise those coming to their offices not to fly or
ride a train because airports and train stations are easy targets for U.S.
immigration patrols.

Have someone drive you, they tell them.

'Drive them like Moses'

In Delray Beach, two Haitian men do this.

They bought a van large enough to fit 15 people, and they began scheduling trips
to the border with strangers and friends desperate to leave Palm Beach County.

Their first trip was with a family of seven last December.

The men, who did not want their identities revealed, take turns driving the
1,343 miles to upstate New York, stopping only for gas and food. They never
drive people to the border posts. Instead, they drop them at the border houses.

They charge $500 per person, which they say is a good price because they know of
others who charge as much as $1,000.

On the way to Buffalo, where most request to go, they pray together in the van.

"So they don't worry about police on the road," one of the men says.

His cellphone rings.

"Bonswa?" he asks.

It's someone asking about Canada.

"How much it is?" the person on the other line asks. "What do we need? How long
does it take?"

He answers their questions and hangs up the phone. Another appointment has been
made.

They say they are not afraid of what they do.

"We put our faith in the Lord's hands," one says. "We have to drive them like
Moses."

Uprising halts deportations

Is it true what they say about Canada?

This is what Haitians want to know.

They are undocumented immigrants who have been living in America for dozens of
years. Most are noncriminals, some with U.S.-born children, who work and live
productive lives and send thousands of dollars to relatives in Haiti, where most
people live on less than a dollar a day.

Some fled the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere because they feared they
would be killed. Others left for political reasons, and some fled because the
country is so poor and jobs are so scarce, there is no hope there for a better
life.

Now many are afraid the United States will force them to return.

So they wonder, in Canada, will they be safe?

The answer, many say, is yes.

The temporary freeze on deporting Haitians was put in place in May 2004, three
months after a violent political uprising led to the ouster of President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Haiti is on a list of countries that Canada labels unstable. If citizens from
any of those nations are in Canada, regardless of their legal status, Canada
will allow them to stay unless they have a criminal background.

The refugee claimants are eligible for basic social assistance and emergency
health care once they enter Canada.

Besides Haitians, Canada also protects those fleeing war-torn Afghanistan,
Burundi, Iraq, Liberia, Rwanda, Zimbabwe and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Janet Dench, executive director of Canadian Council for Refugees, a nonprofit
group in Montreal, says Haitians finally are starting to learn about Canada's
exception for them, which is why so many are heading north this year. She says
many making refugee claims are from Florida, but she doesn't know how many.

"The government doesn't make the information too readily available," Dench says.
"They have this nervousness it would serve as a draw factor."

She adds, "Someone who comes here fleeing persecution ... we have to give them
support."

Advocacy groups in the United States have been fighting for the past few years
for Haitians to receive similar treatment in this country.

They've asked the government to grant Haitians temporary protected status,
especially in 2004, after Haiti had been hit with the uprising and tropical
storms that drowned sections of the country, killing more than 3,000 people.

The status was never granted.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, has
been vocal against Haitians' receiving protection status. His group believes
most people flee Haiti because the country is so poor, not because of
persecution.

And being poor, he says, does not make you a refugee.

"Once you open the door, what you would have are these endless floats," Mehlman
says. "Anything that can float (will be) coming across from Haiti."

'Trying to cheat you'

Those living illegally in America are so desperate to leave that they will do
anything and pay anyone who says they can help.

People posing as immigration consultants in Palm Beach County have been known to
charge as much as $3,500, giving their clients forms to fill out to claim
refugee status in Canada. Often these applications are fake, and if they are
real, the clients don't realize that they can be downloaded free off the
Internet.

Scammers also take advantage of those crossing into Canada illegally.

Swindlers are selling maps that highlight border crossings where they say an
immigrant can walk across and cannot get caught. They've been known to charge
anywhere from $2,000 to $4,000 per map, says Goldman says, of the Committee to
Aid Refugees. These maps are downloaded from Google.

Scamming has been so prevalent lately that some Canadian groups have tried to
spread the word by informing advocates in the U.S. and by placing warnings on
their Web sites.

The Canadian Council for Refugees warns:

"If anyone tries to charge you money to assist you with admission to such a
program, they are misleading you and trying to cheat you."

'I am a refugee'

They told Pegby to come in March.

It will be the first time her daughter will see snow.

The soft-spoken woman is on her way to Vermont. She's escaping her home in North
Miami because America did not grant her the asylum she expected. A victim of
violence in Haiti, Pegby thought that would be enough to persuade a judge to let
her live in the U.S.

So here she is with her 7-year-old daughter, who keeps asking why they're going
to this very cold place where strange faces greet them with smiles, treating
them like friends.

They are Giantonio and Jenness and some of the 60 volunteers at the Vermont
Refugee Assistance Program who have offered to help Pegby and her daughter get
to Canada.

Pegby was so afraid of getting caught by immigration officials in Florida that
she quit her job and stopped driving. Whenever she'd hear a knock at the door,
her heart would flutter.

"In Florida, they take people away. They bother people more," she says. "I
stopped living."

One day she Googled "refugee to Canada" and discovered the Vermont group. When
she learned she did not have to pay for its help, she wondered if it was a scam
to deport her. But Pegby was so miserable, she decided to take that chance.

At the border with her daughter, officials asked Pegby, "Why are you here?"

She took a deep breath and said, "I am a refugee."

For Pegby, that word means freedom.

"I was very happy to say it," she later says, "because I was in prison in my own
house."

'I tell them, "Get out"'

At Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Delray Beach, Desormeaux preaches about Canada
in his sermons.

After the readings and his homily and the passing of the collection plates, he
tells his congregation of 3,000 that Canada does not deport Haitians because,
for now, Canada believes Haiti is not safe.

In Canada, he stresses, you are welcome.

"As a priest, I want them to stay," Desormeaux says after a service. "But when I
have all of these people who are illegals, and they are sick or hungry or have
no money, they come to me. What am I going to do?"

He tells them about the border houses and the people in New York, Vermont and
Detroit who help guide refugees to Canada. He speaks of other Haitians who have
fled there and now lead safe, happy lives. He passes out sheets from his
dwindling stack.

Go get them, he encourages, consider them. And if you think you have no hope in
America, then pack your bags and go.

"Some churches are afraid to lose their people, but I tell them, 'Get out.'
People need to leave," he says. "Because here they are afraid."

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

In search of asylum

319,229 Haitians live in Florida, including an estimated 48,000 in Palm Beach
County.

People granted asylum in the United States increased from 25,160 in 2005 to
26,113 in 2006.

11.5 percent, or 3,001, were Haitians.

1,214 Haitians were deported in 2006.

Sources: U.S. Census Bureau; U.S. Department of Homeland Security Yearbook
Immigration Statistics: 2006

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C & 3 B&W)
 1. (C) GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer A victim of violence in Haiti, Pegby
fled from North Miami to Montreal with her 7-year-old daughter. 'I was in prison
in my own house,' she says. 2. (C) Gessy Vilma: 'For five years in America, I
didn't get anything. Here ... I almost have everything.' (mug) 3. (C) Marie
Michou Daniel: 'I know God is going to make a way for me. I don't want to give
up.' (mug) Staff photos by GARY CORONADO 4. Freedom House in Detroit helps
people seeking asylum in Canada or the United States. 5. The busy Ambassador
Bridge links Detroit and Windsor, Ontario. It's a lifeline for refugees. 6.
CHERYL A. GUERRERO/Staff Photographer The Rev. Roland Desormeaux of Our Lady of
Perpetual Help in Delray Beach tells his congregants that Canada does not deport
Haitians. 'As a priest, I want them to stay,' he says. 'But ... they are sick or
hungry or have no money.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBANS SWIM TO SHORE, FREEDOM,

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA, SONJA ISGER and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 986 words


In the wee hours of Thursday morning, 35 Cubans - including two toddlers -
jumped from a boat into the surf off Palm Beach and swam. All but one made it to
the beach - and freedom.

By midmorning, a 33-foot boat and the man aboard suspected of smuggling the
immigrants to the United States were being held by U.S. immigration agents.

By nighttime, the surviving 34 were at or on their way to a health clinic in
Miami before being released. A few hundred people waited outside the clinic at a
mini mall in Little Havana.

When the first group finally arrived shortly after 10 p.m., some who were
waiting burst into tears after recognizing friends and relatives among the dozen
Cubans who exited the border patrol van.

They all wore clean, new white T-shirts and were escorted straight into the
clinic.

About 30 minutes later, a doctor came out asking the crowd for help. He needed
soda for the travelers from a nearby Walgreens and Pedialyte for a 3-year-old
who was dehydrated. Doctors said four travelers were hospitalized.

A second group arrived about 10:50 p.m. About 20 people got out, some barefoot,
wearing what appeared to be the same clothes they had traveled in. When people
in the crowd saw them, they started screaming. Mall security guards had to keep
them away from the windows.

The first indication of the voyagers' arrival was around 2:30 a.m., when four
men knocked on a door on Mockingbird Trail in Palm Beach and told the owner that
their boat had sunk. The owner called Palm Beach police.

Police arrived to find preschoolers, teens and adults into their 50s or 60s. The
group told police one of their fellow boat jumpers was missing.

"We found him in the surf," said Police Capt. Rick Howe. The drowned 39-year-old
man had names and phone numbers of local contacts on slips of paper in his
pockets, Howe said.

"Everybody else was just staying put. They weren't running; they made it to
shore. They're Cuban. They don't have to run," Howe said, referring to the U.S.
policy that permits Cubans who make it to land to stay.

In all, there were 17 men, 12 women, three teens (two girls and a boy), and the
children, 3 and 2.

"They seem to be very healthy. They claimed to have been on the ocean since
Friday," Howe said.

The U.S. Border Patrol thinks it's likely they came through the Bahamas.

"If they came straight from Cuba, they'd end up in the Keys," said Robert
Swathwood, patrol agent in charge in Riviera Beach.

Police found life vests on shore, but not enough for all the passengers. The
group likely swam part of the way to shore through 4-foot swells.

They crawled up 6-foot dunes, climbed over gates tacked with "No trespassing"
signs and knocked on doors of multimillion-dollar homes with well-manicured
lawns until someone answered. The resident who called police lived two houses
from the ocean.

"They were in good shape but had some signs of exposure: sunburned faces,
chapped lips," Swathwood said.

The refugees were taken to the Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach to be
interviewed. Then they were bused to a health clinic in Miami for a brief
examination before being released.

Based on the boat's description given by the immigrants, a Martin County
sheriff's deputy spotted a blue and white 33-foot Hydrasport boat with three
engines at Leighton Park in Palm City on the south fork of the St. Lucie River
about 8:30 a.m.

The man on board was questioned by deputies. Then, he and the boat were turned
over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, who detained him.
Records show the boat is registered to Julian Cruz, 36, of Naples, who obtained
it in May.

The boat captain could be charged with human smuggling and possibly homicide in
the drowning of the passenger, Swathwood said.

"We've got to stress that individuals should not be taking to the seas," said
ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez. "Not only is it illegal but people are
tragically dying, like in this case.

"Human smugglers have no regard for human life," she said. "They're only in it
for the money."

Thursday night, the dozens of Cuban exiles at the mini mall in Little Havana -
outside the Miami-Dade Refugee Health Assessment Clinic on Southwest Eighth
Street - shared the cramped parking lot with television sound trucks.

The 34 survivors were headed there for cursory medical exams, and the gathered
exiles were praying that the group included family members and friends.

"I received a call from my mother that my brother, Alejandro, had left Cuba on
Monday," said Maila Nieto, 43, originally of Havana and now a day care teacher
in Miami. "The last few days have been a horrible agony, not knowing what was
happening to him at sea. We hope to God he's part of this group."

Initially told the survivors would arrive early in the evening, Nieto later
learned her wait would stretch late into the night.

"It doesn't matter if I'm here all night," she said. "I need to wait and see if
he made it. I haven't seen him in four years. And I need to call my mother in
Cuba. She's frantic."

Mercedes Arias, 41, had been waiting all night for two relatives.

"I saw them and I felt like screaming with joy and crying too," she said about
11 p.m. "Now I know they're safe."

The Cubans who arrived Thursday are the sixth group of immigrants to make it to
Palm Beach County or the Treasure Coast this fall.

In September, 16 Haitians landed on Jupiter Island. The captain was arrested and
the boat seized.

Two weeks ago, 24 Cubans were found in a boat off Juno Beach and 22 more were
found wandering in Boynton Beach. Six Haitians waded ashore in the north end of
Palm Beach on Nov. 9. Nine more Haitians landed in Jupiter Island on Sunday.

"We don't think it's a mass migration," Swathwood said. "Maybe they're just
changing their tactics. It's unusual for us to get so many up here. We're
wondering what's going on, too."

Staff writer Jill Taylor contributed to this story.

- tim_omeilia@pbpost.com

- sonja_isger@pbpost.com

- john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer The first group of Cubans who swam ashore
Thursday morning in Palm Beach arrives Thursday night at a refugee health clinic
in Miami, where several hundred people and TV sound trucks awaited.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRANSPORTERS OF MIGRANTS ARE HEROES, TOO

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 34 words


Something's wrong ("Cubans recount battling rough waves" Nov. 17). Undocumented
immigrants are welcomed as heroes, while the heroes who brought them here are
treated as criminals.

CLARA KAYE

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK< HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK Bottom line: policy needs reform

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer Family and friends watch as the first van load
of illegal immigrants who had recently washed ashore arrives Nov. 15 at the
Miami-Dade County Health Department Refugee Center in Miami.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISSUE DESERVES SOLVING, NOT SLOGANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 233 words


"Just send them back? It's a powerful campaign slogan, but it can't be done,"
said the Nov. 18 editorial "New immigration policy for 'New Main Street.'"
Apparently, most of our politicians believe more in powerful campaign slogans
than in problem-solving leadership.

The Republicans seem intent on making immigration a wedge issue in this upcoming
election. Even while Republicans verbally proclaim (as reported elsewhere in
your paper) that they are going to be the party of the big tent, they send out
"push surveys" framed with the help of virulently anti-immigrant groups,
intended to convince their base that they will deny immigrants all rights, that
immigrants are nothing but a drain on our economy and a threat to national
security, and should be sent back to where they came from. Such propaganda
spreads hate and disinformation, not light and truth.

Meanwhile, the Democrats refuse to confront the wedge issue, apparently
believing, once again, that elections are won by letting the Republicans frame
the debate while Democrats ignore difficult issues. Recall how helpful that
approach was for Michael Dukakis with the Willie Horton issue, and Sen. John
Kerry with the Swift boat and Iraq War issues?

I hope before this long election season is over that we see something better
than "just send them back, they're illegal" from politicians on this admittedly
complex issue.

JILL HANSON

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK< HOT TOPIC OF THE WEEK Bottom line: policy needs reform

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CHRIS MATULA/Staff Photographer Family and friends watch as the first van load
of illegal immigrants who had recently washed ashore arrives Nov. 15 at the
Miami-Dade County Health Department Refugee Center in Miami.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN BACK FROM GAZA AFTER RED-TAPE HASSLE

BYLINE: By LONA O'CONNOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Pushing a luggage cart, Hafez Almbasher emerged from customs Thursday at Miami
International Airport.

"How did they treat you?" he was asked.

A wry smile. Just fine, he answered. He wore the thousand-yard stare of a man
who had traveled farther than he ever expected.

After seven months of learning more about the workings of immigration
regulations than they ever wanted to know, Hafez and Deborah Almbasher were not
too worried about routine reentry questions. After the hugs and tears subsided,
the Boca Raton couple headed for the parking garage.

At her husband's request, Deborah Almbasher is preparing a Thanksgiving dinner
today. She had hoped he would make it home for the official holiday, but a
last-minute flurry of bureaucratic paperwork delayed him one more week. Today,
she says, they have that much more to be thankful for.

In April, Hafez Almbasher, 39, an auto body repairman, went to Gaza to visit his
ill mother. By June, when he was ready to return home, the Israeli government
had closed the border between Gaza and Egypt because the Islamic group Hamas
seized the territory.

Almbasher, a resident alien in this country, carries a Palestinian passport, and
his request to return to the United States was denied. With thousands already
waiting at the border to leave, American citizens went first. After that, only
hardship cases were allowed to the head of the line.

Every day for three months, he went to the border to see if he had been cleared.
And every day, his wife frantically called and wrote officials.

Because of stress and long-standing health problems, she was unable to work more
than a couple of days a week. Family finances were dire. But her argument that
this qualified her husband as a hardship case fell on deaf ears.

In September, she sought help from the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an
advocacy agency with an office in Pembroke Pines.

Then it was Altaf Ali's turn to swim in red tape. The council's executive
director kept a log that contains letters to Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice, the Israeli consul general and any other official he thought might be able
to intervene.

By early November, after letters to U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who heads
the Senate immigration subcommittee, and U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar,
there was reason for optimism. A Hastings aide called Deborah Almbasher to say
her husband could cross from Gaza to the West Bank and Jordan.

But his immigration documents had expired, and Jordanian authorities turned him
back.

On Nov. 21, the day before Thanksgiving, Almbasher bought a plane ticket to
Florida to assure Israeli and Jordanian officials that he was in transit.

Once Almbasher was in Amman, U.S. immigration officials told him he had to wait.
Six days later, he got the go-ahead -- but had to buy a second ticket home,
since the first had expired.

By the time he greeted his wife in Miami, the toughest problem the Almbashers
faced was finding their car.

"I would have been scared before," Deborah Almbasher said, beaming at her
husband. "Now I know somebody's got my back."

lona_oconnor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FILM GIVES EL SOL IN JUPITER ITS DAY IN SUN

BYLINE: By ANA X. CERON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Charles Thompson first heard about Jupiter when he was in Jacaltenango.

About a decade ago, he was doing a year of fieldwork for his dissertation on
Guatemalan immigrants. He was living in the Sierra Madre town just south of the
Mexican border, where he often spotted kids wearing hats and T-shirts bearing
the name of this Palm Beach County town.

"I never heard of Jupiter, Florida until I went to Guatemala," the Duke
University professor quips.

He knows his way around these days, though. That's because Thompson, education
and curriculum director of Duke's Center of Documentary Studies, is working on a
documentary about the years-long migration of Guatemalans who seek a better life
for their families with the jobs they find in Jupiter.

The working title is Pueblos Hermanos, or Brother Towns.

Last week, Thompson and cameraman Michael Davie visited El Sol, Jupiter's
Neighborhood Resource Center to shoot film for the documentary.

For Thompson, the former church building on Indiantown Road and Military Trail
is the bridge where two very different worlds meet.

In the 1980s, Guatemalan refugees fled their country amid a brutal civil war
that killed as many as 100,000 to 200,000 people and left thousands more
missing, according to news reports.

Some found their way to Indiantown in Martin County, where they found farm work.
The word spread to family and friends back home, and increasing numbers of
people followed.

As the workers got to know the area, however, they learned that there was big
demand for construction and landscaping work in a fast-growing Jupiter. One
expert estimates that there could be as many as 2,000 Mayans - Guatemala's
indigenous people - living here, many of them from Jacaltenango.

To find work, day laborers lined up along Center Street, crowding around any
trucks or vans that stopped to offer work.

The practice became a safety issue and a concern for nearby homeowners who
worried that the hundreds of men loitering in the street would hurt the area's
property values.

The town's solution was opening El Sol and mandating that anyone looking for
work would have to do so inside the former church building next to town hall.

Since then the center has become a hub in the Guatemalan community.

Laborers come here for legal advice when their bosses don't pay. Families go for
parenting classes. Men and women study English here.

On Tuesday, Thompson was there to film the latest graduation ceremony
celebrating about 65 students enrolled in the lessons.

Mike Richmond, head of one of the volunteer groups that help run El Sol, is
pleased that the center will end up in Thompson's movie.

"Any additional exposure of El Sol and the community can only be beneficial to
help out the needs of all the residents of Jupiter, especially those who just
immigrated to the area," Richmond said Thursday.

It was probably the third time Thompson has visited the center, he said. He came
before it opened, he was back a little after it was up and running and now he
wanted to be here to see how things were going more than a year after it
officially swung open its doors.

Thompson said it is too early to tell how his film will be distributed. But he
hopes it offers a perspective that viewers don't see often.

To the wives in Jacaltenango, Thompson wants to show their husbands' lives in
Jupiter.

To the residents in Jupiter, he wants to explain why these outsiders are
journeying all the way here.

To other communities around the nation confounded with how to deal with
situations similar to Jupiter's, he wants to illustrate what El Sol does.

"Mostly, it's going to be a human story," Thompson said.

- ana_ceron@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run South.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO BENEFITS ON 'AMERICAN' CHILDREN'S COATTAILS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 184 words


According to the letter, "Licenses for immigrants a compassionate move" (Dec.
7), we should allow illegal immigrants to have driver licenses so that they can
drive their "American children" to school, church, etc.

I feel that we have a law on the books that is obsolete and insulting to
Americans. Ours is one of few countries that still gives citizenship to a child
born here. This allows parents to apply for food stamps, welfare, health care
and more for their "American" children, and when the parent is found to be
illegal and deportation begins, their attorney says you can't separate families.
The children are Americans.

When we begin to act like other countries, we will not have this problem. The
children born here should not be able to assist the parent in receiving benefits
that are for Americans. As for driver licenses, doesn't the letter-writer
realize that they're still driving around, with or without a license? Is a
driver license going to teach them to read our signs when they can't speak
English? Oh, I forgot, we also give the driver's test in Spanish and Creole.

ANN PROBST

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POST EDITORIAL ENCOURAGES BREAKING LAW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 122 words


Regarding "Immigrant labor center earns praise, not protest" (Dec. 16
editorial): Why is The Palm Beach Post condoning the behavior of people coming
to this country who break our laws?

The editorial stated that immigrants are needed for "menial" jobs. The editorial
also mentions they "contribute mightily to the economy." I think the writer
needs to do some more homework. The "illegals" send millions of dollars back to
their own countries and spend very little here.

The editorial blames the United States government for the illegal immigration
problem, and The Post is right. But the government is not the only one
responsible; newspapers like The Post that support the El Sol center are
responsible, too.

SAL DeCARLO

Port St. Lucie

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sunday BACK TALK HOT TOPICS OF THE WEEK El Sol center of bricks,
bouquets

GRAPHIC:  ERIK M. LUNSFORD/Staff Photographer Laborers, including Edwin W.
Raymundo-Pablo of Jupiter (right), wait for work early one morning last summer
at the El Sol Labor Center in Jupiter.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN CHILD CASE A WASTE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 397 words


U.S. immigration policy is politically contorted and dysfunctional enough
without the states meddling in cases where they don't belong.

One of the long-standing consistencies in the government's often inconsistent
dealing with immigrant families is that children and parents should be kept
together whenever possible, no matter what their country of origin. States
nearly always respect the federal principle and stay out of child custody cases.

But recently released documents show that both former Gov. Jeb Bush and his
successor Gov. Crist ordered the Department of Children and Families to get
involved in a dispute that began last year over a 4-year-old Cuban girl. State
officials had said they gave no special treatment to the politically charged
case but records obtained by The Associated Press clearly indicate otherwise.
DCF spent more than $250,000 in legal fees and took free work from private
attorneys in a failed effort to help a prominent Cuban-American couple in Miami
get permanent guardianship of the girl and prevent her father from taking her
back to live in Cuba.

Naturally, the case resurrected the political angst of the Elian Gonzalez
dispute from 2000. If the child had been Guatemalan, or Haitian, or Italian, the
birth father would have claimed custody quickly and taken her back home. But the
specter of another Elian and another eruption in the Miami exile community
turned an obvious humanitarian decision into something acutely political.

Immigration attorney Ira Kurzban, who represented the father, Rafael Izquierdo,
is right when he blames Gov. Bush for the decision "to pander to the right-wing
elements of the Cuban community" from the beginning. The Crist administration
then continued the pandering. Records show DCF did all it could to disparage the
reputation of Mr. Izquierdo and relatives in Cuba. Like Elian, the girl became a
pawn in a political game that ignored her best interest.

In September, Circuit Judge Jeri B. Cohen ruled in Mr. Izquierdo's favor and
restored sanity to the case. The state withdrew an appeal after the father
agreed to keep his daughter in the U.S. for the next three years and allow the
Miami couple regular visitation. He shouldn't have had to make that concession.

Money and resources that DCF squandered on a silly legal crusade could have gone
to make Florida's children safer. Worse, two governors let it happen.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A LABOR OF NECESSITY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 394 words


When Americans run into a problem they can't solve completely, they still keep
after it, doing as much as they practically can. That's what Lake Worth is
trying to do in becoming the latest city to establish an immigrant day-labor
center.

The preferred site is vintage Florida: the community building next to the public
shuffleboard courts on Lucerne Avenue. It isn't a perfect location. There are
legitimate concerns about the mix of mostly older residents who want to play
shuffleboard or use the building for meetings, and the mostly foreign, mostly
illegal workers and potential employers. But that mix already is taking place;
some immigrants have moved from downtown to the shuffleboard courts.

Establishing an official labor center there would bring more order to the
arrangement and do even more to prevent the dangerous and illegal practice of
stopping on the streets to pick up workers. Last week, city commissioners voted
3-2 to begin negotiating a lease on the community building. Adding to the
chances for success, two private groups, the Mentoring Center Inc. and the
Farmworker Coordinating Council, have said they want to help run the center.
Private involvement follows the formula established at the successful El Sol
labor center in Jupiter. Like that facility, the Lake Worth center also would
provide job training and other services. El Sol offers English classes, and so
should the Lake Worth center.

Even the two commissioners who opposed the proposal -- Retha Lowe and Dave Vespo
-- said they support a center. They just didn't like the site. Commissioners
Cara Jennings, Jo-Ann Golden and Mayor Jeff Clemens voted for the center.

Lake Worth, like other Florida communities, is acting in the absence of help
from the federal government, which should be taking the lead. Lake Worth, like
Jupiter, faces critics like the man who told commissioners, "People who violate
immigration laws and sit waiting for work should be arrested, fingerprinted and
sent back to wherever the hell they came from." Big help. Mindless hostility
toward illegal immigrants is not a solution.

America needs to better control its borders. Then the country needs programs to
bring illegal immigrants out of the shadows and allow them to work. The overall
solution is way beyond the scope of what Lake Worth can do. But the city is
right to do all that is practical to do.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICE BUILDING BIGGER QUARTERS

BYLINE: BY BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 756 words


A dejected Victor Carcamo walked slowly down the steps of the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services building.

The 44-year-old plasterer and Honduras native lost his identification in a fire.
Carcamo, who is not a U.S. citizen, went to the CIS office at the corner of
Tamarind Avenue and Banyan Boulevard in West Palm Beach to get new
identification. But there are no public phones or computers in the building, so
he could not access the information he needs.

"I can't work until I get new identification. I have a friend with a computer.
I'll go to his house. Every day I don't work, I lose money," he said.

The process for Carcamo and others like him should get easier when the CIS opens
a new immigration service office in November on Belvedere Road, just east of
State Road 7 in Royal Palm Beach. The 38,000-square-foot building will have
phones and computers for public use and space for twice as many employees, said
CIS Director Emilio Gonzalez, who came from Washington, D.C., on Jan. 18 to
attend a groundbreaking for the new office.

The $24 million structure is being built by Wilton Manors-based NICO Development
Inc. The building is being built to energy-saving standards, which adds about 15
percent to the cost but saves money in the long run. CIS has signed a 10-year
lease for the building and will pay the developer about $1.5 million annually
for rent, said NICO President Jim Beeson.

"The current temporary building for the West Palm Beach office is unacceptable,"
Gonzalez said after his dedication speech. "We want a one-stop shop where people
can get information, file for needed paperwork and fill out forms all in one
place."

CIS' only office in Palm Beach County has been in downtown West Palm Beach since
August 2006. The 46 employees handle an average of 250 to 300 calls and visitors
every weekday.

The building will close when the new office opens, said Kathy Redman, CIS
district director. CIS selected the western site for its new offices because
many of the people who need CIS assistance come from western communities, said
Gonzalez.

"Plus, there is lots of empty land out here if we have to expand. We'll have
lots of parking, which we don't have in West Palm Beach," Gonzalez said.

The new building will have 216 parking spaces. Visitors to the old building must
park in a lot on Banyan Boulevard or pay for street parking. No CIS parking is
allowed in the adjacent Paul G. Rogers Federal Courthouse lot.

A nearly vacant strip shopping center is just east of where the new building
will be. Those spots likely will fill up with businesses related to immigration,
said Beeson.

"Cottage businesses spring up right away once the word gets out. Photo copy
places, passport photos, restaurants, places like that," he said.

William Zheng, a real estate broker, placed a large sign that reads "Immigration
Services" in his storefront in the shopping center several months ago. He he
said he offers translation services and help preparing immigration forms.

"I expect we will get business when the new building opens. How much, I don't
know," said Zheng, a native of China.

CIS is building new centers to handle immigration surges in Florida, as well as
other border states such as Texas and California. Along with the West Palm Beach
center, CIS is building three centers in Miami-Dade County and one in Fort
Lauderdale and upgrading one in Orlando, said Gonzalez.

The immigration process needs to be streamlined, said Sal DiMiceli, 62, a native
of Italy. Like Carcamo, DiMiceli was told at the CIS office that he needed more
information, so he walked to the West Palm Beach Public Library to use a
computer.

DiMiceli, 62, said he has had to go to several offices in his quest to become
U.S. citizen. His wife, Marisa, already got her U.S. citizenship.

"Once I finish at the library, I got to go back and get in line again," said
DiMiceli. "Putting everything in the same building is something they should have
done a long time ago."

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

Immigration Facts

- About 8 million immigrants living in U.S. are eligible to become American
citizens.

- About 537,000 new U.S. citizens were naturalizedIn 2004 (the last year figures
are available).

- About 54 percent of U.S. naturalized citizens in 2004 were women.

- About 70 percent of new U.S. citizens live in Florida, California, Texas, New
York, Illinois and New Jersey.

- Mexico was the leading country of birth among citizens naturalized in 2004.

- Forty-two percent of new U.S. citizens in 2004 came from Asia.

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN FOCUS West Palm Beach / Palm Beach Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C) & MAP (C)
 1. Emilio Gonzalez (mug) 2. Sal DiMiceli (mug) 3. MARK HEMPHILL/Staff Artist
New site for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 4, 2008 Monday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SHERIFF OPEN TO U.S. USE OF SITE

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: STUART


If the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice doesn't want to keep the old boot
camp campus for youth programs, Martin County Sheriff Robert Crowder said he
would not oppose letting the federal government use it for an immigration
outpost.

Crowder said that, during a recent meeting in Washington with Rep. Tim Mahoney,
D-Palm Beach Gardens, they discussed ways the county can apply for federal money
to help with local immigration issues and possible uses for the former boot camp
property. The property is on the sheriff's jail complex grounds.

The state owns the boot camp buildings and has considered putting either a
high-risk program for boys or a mental health program for girls on the site, but
there has been no decision.

Crowder said his understanding is that only one local girls program would
qualify for the female program, and he would prefer something that could house
more local kids who could be close to their families during their
rehabilitation.

Family contact was a big part of the much-praised boot camp Crowder operated at
the site. He could not come to terms with the state on meeting the costs to run
the program and shut it down in 2006.

The federal General Services Administration had been looking for a location for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Border Patrol in the area, Crowder
said.

If the boot camp were available, Crowder said, it could be used for
administrative offices where federal workers could process paperwork for
immigrants and use it as a temporary holding facility for undocumented
immigrants until vans could take them to other facilities.

Mahoney and Crowder also talked about money that might be available to the
sheriff's office for overtime, where deputies would increase patrols at beaches
and other areas where human smuggling has been a problem.

"It's very much in the talking phase," Crowder said.

He envisions $500,000 for deputies to patrol beaches on four-wheel vehicles and
possibly pay other overtime expenses related to immigration.

The department often spends hours on manhunts, after undocumented immigrants
come ashore and scatter. There have been several landings that ended with
homicide investigations after would-be immigrants drowned trying to get from
smuggler boats to shore.

Crowder said budget cuts have forced him to curtail most overtime and it has hit
hard on deputies who supplemented their incomes by volunteering for extra shifts
when others are sick or on vacation.

"It would help the county," he said. "Instead of going out and hiring more
deputies, we could give them some overtime."

It will be several weeks before more concrete information is available on the
state's plans for the boot camp and the availability of the federal money for
the extra patrols, Crowder said.

~jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 Robert Crowder (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 1, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARREST NEAR CHURCH CONFINES TERRIFIED HAITIANS TO HOMES

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 733 words


Whispers of law enforcement arresting undocumented Haitians near churches have
swirled through South Florida communities, frightening families terrified of
returning to a country where people are poor, jobs are scarce and the government
is unstable.

Sunday's arrest on a federal warrant of a Haitian woman who was leaving a
Greenacres church confirmed the rumor, scaring even the pastors whose
congregations look to them for reassurance. Some are so afraid that they would
not comment for this story for fear their church would be law enforcement's next
target.

"I've been getting calls from pastors telling me their church pews are empty and
people are afraid to come to worship," said Cheryl Little, executive director of
the Immigration Advocacy Center in Miami. "When you can't even go to church and
worship without fear that immigration officials will be waiting, that's a
terrible thing."

Haitian pastors in Palm Beach County are trying to calm the nerves of the shaken
by creating prayer groups solely for undocumented members afraid to go to
church. Now the pastors bring church to them.

Church boards are carefully naming their churches. They give the churches vague
titles and insist the words not be associated with Haiti or written in Creole,
Haiti's official language.

Members of one local church whose pastor did not want his name revealed in this
story, plan to buy vans so members of the church who live here legally can pick
up those who are not legal and take them to church. This way, they won't have to
drive their cars.

The idea stems from Sunday's arrest because Yvrose Michel, the mother of three,
was stopped by Greenacres police officers after leaving church because her car
had a broken taillight and a partially obstructed tag.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers became involved because Michel
was living in the United States illegally.

On Friday, she was taken to the Broward Transitional Center in Pompano Beach.

Pastor Mathieu Jean-Baptiste, president of the Haitian Evangelical Crusade
Association in Lake Worth, argues that most of the immigrants taken into custody
and deported are mothers and fathers who work hard to provide for their family
and do not have criminal backgrounds.

Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for the customs agency, said that if someone
breaks the law, they must be arrested.

"Officers have a sworn duty to enforce the nation's immigration laws and the
authority to arrest those who violate the laws," she said.

Gonzalez declined to comment further.

Pastors have noticed diminishing congregations, and their shoulders grow weary
as they try to help the members whose families already have been deported.

"That makes our job more complicated," Jean-Baptiste said. "As pastors, we feel
we have our hands filled up. It is a burden on our shoulders, and it is heavy."

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 319,229 Haitians live in Florida, including
an estimated 48,000 in Palm Beach County.

Most Haitian immigrants rely on their churches to help them through crises.

Some living in the U.S. illegally have quit their jobs because they're afraid
their employers will report them to ICE. Others won't renew their driver
license, so they no longer can drive.

Many find themselves broke and unemployed but afraid to seek help even from
nonprofit groups available for them.

They turn to their churches for money, clothing and sometimes food.

Pastor Jean Emmanuel Philogene of Philadelphia Church of the Nazarene in Riviera
Beach said many members of his church have fled to Canada, where a temporary
rule exempts Haitians from deportation.

Once there, even if a Haitian is denied refugee status, Canada allows that
person to stay unless he has a criminal record, because Canada deems Haiti to be
unsafe.

Some churches, including Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Delray Beach, encourage
their members to go to Canada. Pastors preach about it in their sermons and
provide online copies of applications to apply for refugee status there.

Some have gone, but others have chosen to stay here and become prisoners in
their homes.

Jean-Baptiste said the Haitian Evangelical Crusade Association plans to organize
a countywide prayer service that will focus on the immigration issue. He wants
to see people of all races, cultures and differences come together and pray for
peace.

"Immigration isn't a preaching subject," he said. "It's a prayer subject."

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 101 words


A West Palm Beach man who was vice president of a nationwide janitorial service
that was staffed almost entirely with illegal immigrants was sentenced to four
years and three months in federal prison on Tuesday. Edward Scott Cunningham,
44, also was ordered to pay $16.3 million by a judge in Michigan. His former
company, Rosenbaum-Cunningham International, evaded payment of more than $15.6
million in employment taxes, according to an indictment that was unsealed in
February 2007. Cunningham pleaded guilty in November to a charge of conspiring
to defraud the United States and to harbor illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  METRO REPORT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                   T EDITION

3 REFUGEES FLOAT FOAM BOAT TO FLORIDA

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 346 words


After a week at sea in a flimsy 10-foot craft carved from plastic foam and
powered by makeshift oars, three Cuban nationals arrived on Hutchinson Island
early Tuesday, giving the sunburned voyagers the opportunity to become U.S.
citizens.

"I saw them, but I thought they were just drunks out to see the shuttle launch,"
said Steve McElfish, who noticed the exhausted trio wandering the beach behind
Island Dunes condominiums. "They wanted to know where they were and when they
heard it was Florida, they were happy."

The refugees, a 39-year-old man and a 41-year-old man with his 16-year-old wife,
told Border Patrol officials that they left Mariel, Cuba, the night of March 4
with 29 gallons of water, some food, a lantern and batteries. They were in a
tiny foam boat that looks more like an oversized beer cooler than a craft that
could survive more than 200 rough ocean miles.

They arrived, dehydrated and happy to be safe on land, on the beach behind
Island Dunes around 1:30 a.m.

The three were identified as Luis Alvarez Lopez, Jorge Noel Isidron Rivera and
his wife, Amys Gabriella Galindo Senra.

Robert Swathwood, the Border Patrol agent in charge of the West Palm Beach
office, said the rafters probably were headed for Miami-Dade County, but the
Gulf Stream pulled them north.

Undocumented immigrants who come ashore often exaggerate the amount of time at
sea, but Swathwood said agents believed this group.

"They showed extreme signs of exposure," he said. "They were sunburned,
windburned, sea-sprayed and chapped."

Seas have been rough the past week, with 4- to 6-foot waves during the weekend
in much of South Florida.

"They said they capsized a couple of times and lost a lot of their supplies,"
Swathwood said.

St. Lucie sheriff's deputies and fire-rescue workers got the trio to Martin
Memorial Medical Center, where they were treated and released to the Border
Patrol.

They were to be taken to Miami for medical checks and released under federal
regulations that recognize Cubans as refugees seeking asylum if they make it to
shore, Swathwood said.

~ jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer WEEKLONG VOYAGE LANDS CUBANS ON
HUTCHINSON ISLAND Vacationers (from left) George Skinner, Rhonda Wagner and Dan
Wagner check the raft three Cubans say carried them from Mariel to Hutchinson
Island. The Cubans, who left March 4 and landed Tuesday, probably were headed
for Miami, but the Gulf Stream pulled them north, an official said. 2. (B&W)
PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Steve McElfish, who spotted the refugees
early Tuesday behind the Island Dunes condo, examines the group's crude oars.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3 CUBANS RIDE FLIMSY CRAFT, LAND ON HUTCHINSON ISLAND

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 346 words


After a week at sea in a flimsy 10-foot craft carved from plastic foam and
powered by makeshift oars, three Cuban nationals arrived on Hutchinson Island
early Tuesday, giving the sunburned voyagers the opportunity to become U.S.
citizens.

"I saw them, but I thought they were just drunks out to see the shuttle launch,"
said Steve McElfish, who noticed the exhausted trio wandering the beach behind
Island Dunes condominiums. "They wanted to know where they were and when they
heard it was Florida, they were happy."

The refugees, a 39-year-old man and a 41-year-old man with his 16-year-old wife,
told Border Patrol officials that they left Mariel, Cuba, the night of March 4
with 29 gallons of water, some food, a lantern and batteries. They were in a
tiny foam boat that looks more like an oversized beer cooler than a craft that
could survive more than 200 rough ocean miles.

They arrived, dehydrated and happy to be safe on land, on the beach behind
Island Dunes around 1:30 a.m.

The three were identified as Luis Alvarez Lopez, Jorge Noel Isidron Rivera and
his wife, Amys Gabriella Galindo Senra.

Robert Swathwood, the Border Patrol agent in charge of the West Palm Beach
office, said the rafters probably were headed for Miami-Dade County, but the
Gulf Stream pulled them north.

Undocumented immigrants who come ashore often exaggerate the amount of time at
sea, but Swathwood said agents believed this group.

"They showed extreme signs of exposure," he said. "They were sunburned,
windburned, sea-sprayed and chapped."

Seas have been rough the past week, with 4- to 6-foot waves during the weekend
in much of South Florida.

"They said they capsized a couple of times and lost a lot of their supplies,"
Swathwood said.

St. Lucie sheriff's deputies and fire-rescue workers got the trio to Martin
Memorial Medical Center, where they were treated and released to the Border
Patrol.

They were to be taken to Miami for medical checks and released under federal
regulations that recognize Cubans as refugees seeking asylum if they make it to
shore, Swathwood said.

- jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 PAUL J. MILLETTE/Staff Photographer Steve McElfish, who spotted the refugees
early Tuesday behind the Island Dunes condo, examines the group's crude oars.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PARK ALONG INTRACOASTAL SET TO OPEN THURSDAY

BYLINE: Linda Haase

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 419 words


After months of construction, Jaycee Park is opening. A ribbon-cutting ceremony
for the 5.6-acre waterfront park, which includes two boccie courts, three picnic
shelters, two play areas, one for kids 2 to 5, another for kids 5 to 12, and
walking trails, is scheduled for 10 a.m. Thursday.

The park, at 2400 S. Federal Highway, was one of the last remaining places in
Boynton Beach for a waterfront park. Park hours will be 7 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
during daylight-saving time. For more information, call (561) 742-6225.

At Galaxy Park, visitors will notice almost 100 new trees. Trees at the 4-acre
park, adjacent to Galaxy Elementary School, were damaged during hurricanes
Frances, Jeanne and Wilma.

The new trees, including 21 sabal palms, 53 slash pines and 24 magnolias, were
paid for with a $13,748 grant from the state's Urban Forestry Division and
$3,429 from the city.

"The trees and palms will provide shade, wildlife habitat and a sense of beauty
to the park," said city parks superintendent Jody Rivers.

Immigration talk: Interested in immigration policy? Head over to the Hochman
branch of the Jewish Community Center for a talk by Stephen Steinlight, senior
analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.

The discussion, which begins at 7 p.m. Thursday, will address immigration
questions such as:

What policy is best for national security?

What policy best reflects American and Jewish values?

What policy is best for Israel's security and pursuit of Middle East peace?

How does immigration policy affect our economy, demography and social justice
issues?

Steinlight is the former national affairs director for the American Jewish
Committee and co-author of Fractious Nation: Unity and Division in Contemporary
American Life.

The Hochman branch is at 8500 Jog Road. The lecture is free to JCC members; $3
for nonmembers. For more information, call (561) 740-9000.

Golf tourney: South Tech Academy will host its third annual golf tournament
April 19 at the Cypress Creek Country Club, 9400 S. Military Trail.

Students will serve as volunteers at the event, which features a scramble
tee-off at 1 p.m. and ends with dinner and awards at 5:30 p.m.

A $115 fee per person includes greens fee, cart, prizes, dinner, T-shirt and
goodie bag. South Tech offers 12 career academies for high school students. For
information and registration, call (561) 369-7000.

Linda Haase is a staff writer for Neighborhood Post. She can be reached at (561)
820-3452. Faxes can be sent to (561) 265-4872.

~linda_haase@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Boynton Beach

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Photo BY LINDA HAASE Jaycee Park, a 5.6-acre waterfront park with two boccie
courts, three picnic shelters and two play areas, (one for kids 2 to 5 and
another for kids 5 to 12) will open Thursday.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

14 HAITIANS DROWN;
SEARCH CONTINUES FOR OTHER IMMIGRANTS OFF BAHAMAS

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH and ROCHELLE E.B. GILKEN Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 924 words


The U.S. Coast Guard continued its search overnight for Haitian immigrants who
may have been in a boat that capsized over the weekend near Nassau, Bahamas,
killing at least 14.

The boat's captain, a Honduran man living in Nassau, was one of three survivors
and has been arrested by Bahamian authorities. The other survivors, both women,
were being treated Monday for dehydration in a Nassau hospital. They will be
placed in a detention center and returned to Haiti.

The Coast Guard said at least 24 people were aboard the boat.

The tragedy is the latest for a country plagued with violence, poverty and
government instability. Rioting recently broke out over the rapidly rising cost
of food, which many can no longer afford.

The number of desperate Haitians rescued at sea is rising as the country's chaos
increases. Since October, the Coast Guard has returned 972 Haitians. In the 12
months after October 2006, the number of Haitians caught was 1,610.

The Haitian community in Palm Beach County says some Haitians in the boat were
from Port-de-Paix, a poverty-stricken city in the northwest region of the
country where refugees are known to squeeze onto rickety boats with hopes of
making it to America.

"They overload these vessels and the vessels can't handle it," said Coast Guard
Petty Officer Jennifer Johnson in Miami. "Oftentimes there's no equipment on
board. It's horrific conditions and it's extremely dangerous."

Bodies were first discovered Sunday morning, a few hours after the captain of a
sailboat heard cries for help from dark waters. When he headed to the area
around5:30 a.m., he saw nothing.

Brothers Edward and Steven Hoffer, who live in Nassau, were fishing soon after
sunrise when they heard about a search for victims. They decided to help and
spent more than an hour pulling the heavy bodies of four women and one man into
their boat. Steven Hoffer said they smelled like fuel, but the brothers saw no
boat debris.

He said the victims were wearing swimsuits beneath their clothes.

"It seemed surreal," Steven Hoffer said. "I've never been exposed to that many
bodies at one time. I felt bad. They have families."

The bodies were well-dressed, including those of a woman wearing earrings and a
watch and a man in shorts and a shirt, and they did not look malnourished, said
Chris Lloyd, operations manager with the Bahamas Air Sea Rescue Association.

Louis Harold Joseph, Haiti's ambassador to the Bahamas, expressed doubt that the
voyage was connected to recent food riots in which at least seven people died,
including a U.N. peacekeeper.

More bodies were recovered Monday, Lloyd said, some carrying wallets, money and
paperwork.

The boat left Nassau and was to stop in Bimini before arriving in Florida.

The Bahamas is a way station for Haitians, said the Rev. Roland Desormeaux of
Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church in Delray Beach.

"They are waiting to find money to pay for the boat. They are waiting for
someone to take them over," he said. "Sometimes they wait a year. There are a
lot of Haitians there, waiting."

He said a Haitian normally pays $1,000 to $3,000 to get to the United States
illegally by boat.

The bodies are in a morgue in Nassau, and the Bahamian government is working
with the Haitian government to identify the victims and help return them to
their loved ones in Haiti, said Peter Deveaux of the Ministry of National
Security of the Bahamas.

If the bodies are not claimed, they will be buried in Nassau.

Jhacson Brave of Sebring desperately hopes that Roselene Almonor, 31, is one of
the survivors. Brave said his cousin was on the boat and was expected to meet
with relatives in Miami.

He said she moved to the Bahamas a few months ago from the northwest region of
Haiti and was planning to come to the U.S. to be with her boyfriend.

The names of the survivors have not been released.

The boat they were in was an Intrepid with a center console and was assumed to
be 20 to 30 feet long, said Johnson of the Coast Guard.

Two run-down sailboats carrying 247 Haitians were found in the waters south of
the Bahamas last week. A rudder was broken, a tree trunk was being used as a
mast and they pieced together a sail out of whatever they could find.

The Haitians were returned to their country.

The Associated Press and staff researchers Sammy Alzofon and Melanie Mena
contributed to this story.

- dianna_smith@pbpost.com

- rochelle_gilken@pbpost.com

Hundreds of Haitians returned

Since October, U.S. Coast Guard officials have returned 972 Haitians found at
sea. In the 12 months after October 2006, the number of Haitians caught was
1,610.

Other immigrant boat incidents

November 2005: A woman got off a smuggling boat and tried to swim to shore in
Manalapan. A police officer discovered the woman's body in the surf. Officials
detained 18 people: 10 Haitian men, seven Haitian women and a woman from
Trinidad.

April 2003: Boat capsized offshore of the Dominican Republic with 111 people
aboard. At least 16 people were missing and four are known to have died.
Ninety-one were rescued.

May 2002: Fifteen Haitian immigrants were missing after their boat capsized near
the Bahamas. Thirteen drowned and 73 were rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard.

April 2000: Two hundred eighty-eight Haitians were rescued from a shipwreck
about 250 miles from Haiti. As many as 17 people died in the attempt to reach
Florida.

March 29 to April 1, 1982: The bodies of 21 Haitian immigrants washed ashore
between Boca Raton and Pompano Beach. The victims were from a 40-foot
wood-hulled vessel intercepted by the Coast Guard off the coast of the Bahamas.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) & GRAPHIC (B&W)
 1. (C) BRENT DEAN/The Associated Press A Bahamian official questions a survivor
of an accident Sunday in which a boat capsized with at least 24 people aboard.
2. (B&W) Photo by AL RAHMING/Royal Bahamas Defense Force Bahamian authorities
transport the bodies of victims. The government is trying to identify them and
return them to loved ones. 3. (B&W) CHRISTOPHER SMITH/Staff Artist Bodies
recovered, survivors rescued

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 4, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

11 HAITIANS ARRESTED IN COUNTRY CLUB RAID

BYLINE: By HECTOR FLORIN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 309 words


Careful not to interrupt players on fairways where Sam Snead once golfed, or on
courts where tennis champions Ivan Lendl and Steffi Graf once trained, federal
agents swooped through the gates of Gleneagles Country Club Wednesday and
slapped handcuffs on 11 undocumented Haitians, some of them longtime employees,
tagged for deportation.

Immigration authorities, tipped to one worker's illegal status, checked files of
others before launching the afternoon raid at the club west of Delray Beach. The
men allegedly had ignored a judge's order to leave the country.

"It was managed very low-key, so as not to interfere with the operation of the
golf course," said Sean Telling, an assistant field office director with the
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's southern region, which conducted the
raid with the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office's help.

The workers maintained the golf course and common areas, Gleneagles Country Club
general manager Kraig Spina said. The club was not aware the workers were there
illegally, and it cooperated with the investigation, he said.

"I was approached about a month ago on one individual. We worked with them
throughout the whole process," Spina said. "All of our documentation was correct
and accurate, based on what our local government agent said. They orchestrated
this with us.

"I have absolutely no idea what their status is," he said.

Some of the men worked as long as seven years at Gleneagles, Spina said.

The club is in contact with an attorney "to see where the glitch was in the
system," he said.

Immigration officials did not say how long it had been since the judge's ruling
to deport them. "Rather than complying with those orders, they absconded and
went into hiding," said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for the agency.
Officials would not say where the detainees are held.

~ hector_florin@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE RIGHT IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 231 words


State legislators had sense enough to stay out of Washington's business and
allow at least a half-dozen immigration bills to die quietly during the last
session. One good idea went down with all the bad, however, and it could have
saved taxpayers millions.

Sens. Jeff Atwater, R-North Palm Beach, and Mike Bennett, R-Bradenton,
co-sponsored a bill that would have required prison officials to work with
Homeland Security and deport illegal immigrants who had served at least half
their sentences and were willing to return home. About 5,000 illegals are in
Florida prisons, most for drug convictions and non-violent offenses. Each inmate
costs the state about $20,000 annually. Cuban nationals make up the largest
percentage, followed by Mexicans and Jamaicans.

Cubans could not be deported because the United States has no formal relations
with the Castro government, but thousands of other inmates could be returned.
The bill, which had the support of both immigrant advocates and law enforcement
officials, easily cleared two committee votes but never made it to the floor.
Sen. Atwater thinks the idea didn't run out of support as much as ran out of
time. Ironically, it got lost in the turmoil over budget cutting. Supporters
hope to revive the bill next year.

New York and Arizona deport nonviolent inmates and save tens of millions each
year. Florida taxpayers deserve the same break.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA WOMAN'S FIGHT WITH UPS TOUCHES NERVE OVER SECURITY LEVEL

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A UPS envelope destined for South Florida is sitting in a warehouse in
Louisville, Ky., instead threatening to set off an international dispute that
touches on both immigration and national security.

Cristina Bustos, 33, of Bonita Springs said relatives in Monterrey, Mexico,
shipped her the envelope in late March. It contains the birth certificates of
two relatives living in Florida who want to apply for their Mexican passports at
the consulate in South Miami, she said.

The envelope never arrived. Bustos said she received a voice-mail message from a
UPS employee in Louisville telling her that it was being detained there. The
reason: It contains official identification documents from another country, and
she needs to identify herself further before receiving them.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. government has been concerned about
counterfeit documents being used for fraudulent purposes.

"She said the only way I could get it was to send her proof that I am a legal
resident here," said Bustos, who works at a McDonald's in Fort Myers. "She
wanted me to e-mail her a copy of my green card."

Bustos said she has lived in the United States for 15 years, became a legal
resident and received her green card in 2002.

"I told her I thought that was ridiculous," Bustos said. "She represents a
private company. She's not an agent for the immigration service, and I have no
obligation to show her my immigration status.

"We paid to have those documents sent, and they should deliver them to us. There
is nothing illegal in that envelope."

Bustos refused to budge, and so did UPS officials in Louisville. The envelope
has stayed put.

But an angry Bustos contacted the Mexican Consulate in South Miami and spoke to
the consulting attorney there, John DeLeon, who also got angry.

"My question is do they stop stuff coming from England with a Tom Smith sort of
name?" he said. "Do they stop stuff coming to French people who are now legal
residents of the U.S.? Or is this lady being targeted because of her Hispanic
surname?

"On top of which, private companies should not be enforcing immigration law.
What's next? McDonald's asking proof of citizenship before they serve a
hamburger? This is a dangerous precedent."

Kristen Petrella, a UPS spokeswoman, said the company is simply following the
law. U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents open and detain certain items,
she said, and UPS' role is just to notify the customer how to get it.

"We follow exactly what they tell us to do," she said. "We are not an
enforcement agency. We are not making the rules. We are in the business of
making deliveries, but we have to follow the law."

Since soon after Sept. 11, customs agents have been stationed at courier service
hubs around the country where packages arrive directly from foreign countries.
They include the UPS facility in Louisville, FedEx in Memphis and DHL in
Wilmington, Ohio.

After shipments are X-rayed, some are opened and some are detained. Agents
search for contraband such as illegal prescription drugs, counterfeit checks and
other financial instruments, as well as forged documents that might be used to
gain citizenship or some other right.

"Many people are involved in sending fraudulent documents to the U.S. for the
purpose of stealing identities," said Zachary Mann, spokesman for Customs and
Border Protection in Miami.

Some attorneys have insisted that the procedure violates the U.S. Constitution's
Fourth Amendment guarantee against "unreasonable search and seizure."

Customs officials disagree. They say there always has been an exception to that
law: People at U.S. borders can be searched and belongings can be seized without
the usual warrants and legal prohibitions.

Because the courier hubs are where international packages enter the country,
they qualify for the border exception, the officials say. Airports also qualify,
they contend.

DeLeon, the attorney for the Mexican Consulate, counters that a "postal
convention" that President Abraham Lincoln signed between the U.S. and Mexico in
1861 assures that all printed materials sent between the two countries should be
allowed to reach their destinations "without any detention whatever." The birth
certificates are printed materials.

"The Mexican government is encouraging Mexicans wherever they live to get
passports," DeLeon said. "They can't get them without these documents."

No one at the Mexican Consulate could be reached for comment, but DeLeon said,
"I can tell you they're not very happy about this." He represents only Bustos,
not the Mexican government.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Customs and Border Protection "was given the legal
right to inspect everything coming into the country and going out," said Joanne
Ferreira, the agency's spokeswoman in Washington. "Identity documents are of
concern to CBP because of their potential use by terrorists."

She said couriers are required to obtain additional information about a
shipment, including proof of residency, if customs agents ask for it.

Bustos would have the birth certificates if she had complied with the request,
Ferreira said. If Bustos does not end up with them, they will be sent to the
Mexican Embassy in Washington.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

What happened

* Cristina Bustos declined the request from a UPS employee to prove her
residency status in order to receive documents mailed to her from Mexico.

* Her envelope remains at a UPS facility in Louisville.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SEE REAL PEOPLE BY THE LIGHT OF EL SOL

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 725 words


No community in Florida has done more to reject Americans' hypocritical approach
to immigration than the Americans of Jupiter.

Since the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center opened 20 months ago, the
townspeople have carried on a brave, honest and practical experiment in dealing
with a problem almost no one wants to touch.

Seven days each week, dozens of day laborers -- nearly all of them foreign, some
of them here legally, some of them not, most of them from Guatemala and Mexico
-- come to the center looking to work for local employers. On average, 22
workers get hired each day, doing everything from painting houses to washing
clothes to trimming trees.

Beyond job placement, El Sol serves about 150 hot meals daily to workers and
their families. It offers 15 English classes a week and also classes in
nutrition, child care, computers, money management and U.S. laws. Roughly 1,600
workers have taken the classes since the first of the year.

As I said, El Sol is a brave, honest and practical experiment with an emotional
and complicated problem. It took courage for the town council to approve leasing
space for the center, and it takes courage for supporters and volunteers to keep
the operation running. El Sol has drawn protesters from as far away as Broward
County and the Treasure Coast. They shoot video of employers and post it on
Internet Web sites, the way anti-abortion protesters do at women's clinics.

State Rep. Gayle Harrell, R-Port St. Lucie, showed up at El Sol for a photo-op
to promote her campaign for the congressional seat held by Democrat Tim Mahoney
of Palm Beach Gardens. In perhaps the most flagrant example of political
demagoguery this spring, Rep. Harrell sponsored bills in the Legislature that
would have closed down El Sol and sanctioned communities that assisted illegal
immigrants.

House Speaker Marco Rubio, R-West Miami, dismissed Rep. Harrell's adventurism as
"political grandstanding," and correctly said that immigration lawmaking is
Washington's business. Her bills went nowhere.

The El Sol experiment is honest because it tries to break through the
contradiction Americans have come to mistake for legitimate policy: We want
illegal immigrants here to fill our menial jobs and keep the economy humming,
but, please, we don't ever want to see these people.

El Sol sees these people both as workers and as human beings.

The practical value of the El Sol experiment is self-evident. Dozens of workers
aren't flagging down vehicles on street corners looking for jobs each morning.
El Sol brought structure and safety to what was messy business. Congress has
failed to solve the immigration problem, but the center has succeeded in
restoring order to the streets of Jupiter.

Catholic Charities ran El Sol until January, when it started running itself as
an independent non-profit. "Some people seem to think we're a drain on
taxpayers, but that's obviously not true," says Mike Richmond, the El Sol
president. "We're supported entirely by grants and donations, and I believe
we're contributing more than our share of benefits to the community."

Mr. Richmond, a retired California newspaperman who also worked as an aide to
Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein, says El Sol volunteers have provided about
$194,000 in donated services through the first three months of 2008 -- filling
jobs, feeding hungry families, teaching immigrants English.

The El Sol experiment continues to surprise skeptics with its confirmation of
the common decency that very different people share.

The Palm Beach Gardens Lions Club sent more than 300 pairs of sunglasses, eye
protection for El Sol's landscapers and painters. This month, El Sol will send
25 workers to a Habitat for Humanity project west of Jupiter. They will work for
free to learn carpentry and how to hang dry wall.

A spaghetti dinner for supporters in February drew 11 of the town's clergy to
the center -- rabbis, priests, ministers. In March, Vice Mayor Robert Friedman,
a strong supporter of El Sol, won reelection with 61 percent of the vote against
an opponent who wanted the center shut down.

And picture this: El Sol just became a member of the Northern Palm Beach County
Chamber of Commerce. "You know," said Mr. Richmond, "it's an amazing thing
that's happened here."

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECENT RAIDS SEND MANY INTO HIDING

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


They speak for the thousands of refugees who are afraid of returning to
countries where they once lived in fear.

They guide them, support them. And on Monday, they prayed for them.

Over candlelight in front of the Federal Building on Clematis Street, members
and supporters of the Immigrants' Rights Coalition of Palm Beach County gathered
for a vigil to pray that one day, in America, all refugees and their families
will feel safe.

Many in the United States illegally are afraid to leave their homes for even
simple trips to the store or church because of rumors that U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials are stepping up raids throughout South Florida.

The coalition, formed about a year ago, is trying to protect those in hiding.

"We want ICE to stop the cruel deportations," said member and organizer
Christine Jones. "A lot of people are afraid to speak up. They're scared. That's
why we're doing this."

At a press conference earlier Monday, Jones and a group of 20 others discussed
concerns they have with the deportation of Haitians.

The most recent raid was this month when federal agents arrested 11 undocumented
Haitians at the Gleneagles Country Club west of Delray Beach, where many were
longtime employees. The men allegedly had ignored a judge's order to leave the
country.

And in February, Greenacres police officers stopped a Haitian woman after she
left church because her car had a broken taillight and a partially obstructed
tag, but ICE took over because she was living in the United States illegally.

"ICE enforces the laws as they're written," said Sean Teeling, assistant field
officer director for the ICE Detention Removal Operation.

Coalition members are asking ICE to stop deportations to Haiti because the
country is experiencing a food crisis, which is making the situation almost
unbearable for the more than 80 percent who survive on less than $2 a day.

According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Yearbook of Immigration
Statistics, 1,214 Haitians were deported in 2006.

Members are demanding that local notaries be investigated for giving those here
illegally false hope that they will receive asylum. Jones said some notaries
tell clients that if they fill out proper paperwork, they can stay in the United
States. The notaries charge $1,000 to $3,000.

But when the clients later receive deportation letters, they call the
Immigrants' Rights Coalition for help, complaining that they paid someone to
help them get legal status.

By then, for many it's too late.

"They don't speak English, they don't know the rules," member Allan Taylor of
Delray Beach said.

"I just think it's outrageous the way we treat immigrants."

~dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)
 1. (C) UMA SANGHVI/Staff Photographer Jeannot Saint-Juste, Riche Eddie and
Fadouc Pierre Louis of West Palm Beach participate in the candlelight vigil for
Haitian immigrants outside the federal courthouse on Clematis Street in downtown
West Palm Beach on Monday. 2. (B&W) UMA SANGVHI/Staff Photographer About 70
people took part in the protest at the federal courthouse. Members of
Immigrants' Rights Coalition, which was established a year ago, say one of the
group's missions is to protect immigrants in hiding.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 16, 2008 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

CUBANS COME ASHORE, BUT STORY RAISES DOUBT

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR and SARAH PROHASKA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 217 words


Sixteen Cubans who came ashore at Sandsprit Park south of Stuart on Thursday
morning will be medically cleared and allowed to stay and apply for U.S.
citizenship, officials said.

The 11 men and five women were walking from the park when Martin County
sheriff's deputies, alerted by a 911 caller, found them around 3:20 a.m.

U.S. Border Patrol Agent Robert Swathwood said the immigrants claimed to have
come from Cuba on a homemade boat and told investigators they had been on the
water since May 6.

Air and sea searches found no trace of a boat, and the Cubans showed only minor
signs of exposure with none of the expected effects of more than a week in rough
seas.

"If they had been out that long, they'd be throwing up. They'd be in the
hospital," Swathwood said. "We know they're basically telling a story."

Swathwood said agents suspect smugglers brought the group here from the Bahamas.
That has become a trend in recent months, a change from the typical Cuban
immigrations directly from the island nation to Miami-Dade County.

Under the U.S. "wet foot, dry foot" policy, the Cubans are allowed to stay
because they reached land.

Those who are intercepted at sea are typically returned to Cuba. Those from
other countries are usually detained and deported.

- jill_taylor@pbpost.com

- sarah_prohaska@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MIXING IN, BUT THE WORK IS HARDER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 405 words


A study of how recent immigrants are assimilating questions some of the
stereotypes that make the immigration debate so contentious but also notes the
realities behind today's immigrant wave.

Sponsored by the Manhattan Institute, a New York think tank, the study found
that immigrants who arrived in the U.S. during the last 25 years generally have
assimilated at a faster rate than those who came a century ago. The finding
debunks a popular complaint that today's immigrants don't want to learn English
or embrace American society. Among the other surprises:

* Immigrants from Europe and developed countries don't necessarily pick up
American culture faster than those who come from poor countries in Latin America
or Asia.

* When children of immigrants are born here, they develop American ways about as
rapidly and completely as native-born kids.

* Speaking English is no guarantee of success; immigrants who aren't fluent
often can do better economically. But recent immigrants, especially those from
Latin America, are arriving with considerably fewer skills and less earning
potential than those of the great wave from Europe in the early 1900s.

* One of the major hindrances to assimilation is entering the country illegally.
For immigrants who don't have legal status, many opportunities to become part of
the culture just aren't there.

Jacob Vigdor, the study's author and a Duke University professor, says the
nation's capacity to integrate immigrants is strong but the progress is uneven.
"It's not present among some of the Latin American immigrants that are at the
heart of the immigration debate these days," Mr. Vigdor said. This is especially
true for many immigrants from Mexico and Guatemala who cross the border
illegally and don't have enough education or job training to advance in the
workplace.

The research suggests that the best way to promote assimilation is to get the
next Congress and the next occupant of the White House to agree on a
comprehensive immigration reform bill, which the Manhattan Institute has
supported. The United States needs a balanced policy that secures borders and
also opens legal entry routes for immigrants who can contribute to the country
and be successful.

Those goals are just as critical today as they were 100 years ago, when legions
of Irish, Italians and Germans were streaming through Ellis Island.

To read the full study online, visit www.manhattan-institute.org/html/cr_53.htm

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 26, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM CASES SPARK PROBE

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1225 words


Aura was at home in Jupiter on March 18 when she received a phone call from the
man she lived with.

Jose Antonio Melgar, 28, had lived in the United States without legal residency,
doing landscaping work, for eight years. He had just been pulled over for a
traffic offense but thought it would be no big problem.

He hung up, but a while later she received a frantic call from Melgar. She heard
their 2-year-old son screaming in the background.

"When I heard my son crying, I got scared," says Aura, who came from Guatemala
16 years ago and also is undocumented.

The police officers had found that Melgar had a deportation order on his
immigration record. He was being taken to jail and then sent back to his native
Honduras.

"It was terrible," recalls Aura, who won't give her full name for fear of also
being deported. "He didn't understand what that order of deportation was about.
He never had any problem with the law here. He had no idea why the government
would come after him."

Melgar soon discovered how the immigration courts had obtained his name and why
they were deporting him, just as hundreds of other undocumented immigrants in
South Florida are finding out.

"He had gone to a notario who promised he could help him get his driver's
license," Aura says. "It was a terrible mistake."

Notario is Spanish for notary public. Many immigrants depend on Spanish-speaking
notaries for help in completing legal documents.

The Florida Bar and the state attorney general's office are investigating
complaints against notaries for unauthorized practice of law and possible fraud
in their dealings with immigrants.

The issue has created an unusual situation. Although the victims of the alleged
crimes are in the country illegally, the notaries also may be committing crimes.

"This situation has become a very serious problem, especially in South Florida,"
said Janet Morgan, who investigates unauthorized practice of law, working from
the Florida Bar office in Fort Lauderdale.

The main target of the investigations so far is Las Americas Service, a company
based in Lake Worth and Indiantown. All 34 of the cases Morgan is investigating
concern that firm.

The owner, Fabian Sosa, 55, who also runs Sur America Travel in the same
locales, insists he is being accused falsely.

"Most of these attorneys are losing work because of the recession," Sosa said.
"They know some people come here to get certain things done, and they want those
people to go to them instead. But all we do are translations. We do not do the
work of attorneys."

Immigration attorney Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach is one of Sosa's most
vocal accusers.

"He's lying to you," she said. "He is clearly acting as an attorney. He's not
the only one, but he is ruining people's lives ... because he doesn't know what
he's doing."

One practice is coming under particular scrutiny: the application for political
asylum.

In the past, once that application was filed and the person received a receipt
that his case was in the system of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service,
he could take the receipt to the Department of Motor Vehicles and apply for a
temporary driver license.

Sosa admits he handled many such cases.

"In 2004 and 2005, many people discovered you could do that and get the driver's
license," he said. "It was like a virus here in South Florida. You didn't have
to get married and you didn't have to get your employer involved. You just
applied for asylum. Everybody wants a license and everybody was doing it."

Sosa's company advertised on Spanish television and radio, and people traveled
from across the state to get driver licenses, according to attorneys now
representing aggrieved immigrants.

At first it worked. The DMV issued two-year licenses to undocumented immigrants.
Then the system was abused. Immigrants from countries with no history of
successful political asylum claims were making frivolous claims, which is
illegal.

"Even Mexicans were making claims," said attorney Elizabeth Roman Jones of
Stuart. "Nobody from Mexico, just about nobody, is going to be granted political
asylum here. This is a scheme."

The asylum applications most often are undetailed, halfhearted descriptions of
persecution that have no chance of being approved, attorneys say. In addition,
the asylum applications also required that the individual go to Citizenship and
Immigration Service appointments.

Since most of the people applying did not have legitimate asylum claims, they
did not show up for the appointments. In fact, the notarios tell the clients not
to go, according to attorneys representing immigrants.

"They tell them don't go, don't go anywhere near immigration offices," Roman
Jones said.

They then supposedly withdraw the asylum claim once the client has the driver
license.

But that hasn't worked. Once they don't show up for appointments, their cases
enter immigration courts. Immigration agents, with fresh addresses in hand from
the new documents, look for the clients to deport them.

"They know exactly where to look because the notarios give them all the
information," Roman Jones said.

"One day a letter came to my house telling me I was in deportation proceedings,"
said Weder Bastos, 26, originally of Brazil, now of Vero Beach.

Bastos said he went to Sosa's office in February 2007 for help in getting his
license renewed. He said he was not warned of the risks.

In a case that made headlines in February, Haiti native Yvrose Michel was
deported after she left a Greenacres church and police stopped her for a broken
taillight. Her three children, 3 to 9, were in the car. Church leaders said the
children cried as their mother was taken away. She also had gone to a notario.

Attorneys say they have complained to Citizenship and Immigration and other
federal agencies about the notarios.

"But of course they didn't do anything," said a Fort Pierce attorney who asked
not to be identified. "The notarios are telling people that they are helping
them and they are actually doing the work of the immigration agents."

The DMV also has caught on. It now asks for more complete documentation on the
asylum cases when people try to renew licenses.

Sosa said that, in 2006, after the issue arose, he began having his clients sign
forms advising them that, if anything they submitted to Citizenship and
Immigration was false, they risked legal trouble.

"But some people don't listen to you," Sosa said. "They are working out in the
Everglades, they need to support their families and they need a driver's
license. It is more important to them, and they are willing to risk getting
deported."

He said he has stopped filling out asylum forms and refers people to attorneys.

Immigration attorney Josephs doesn't believe it.

"I think he's still doing it," she said. "He's made a lot of money on this."

When Sosa was doing asylum applications, he charged $115, and work permit and
green card applications were $400 apiece, he said.

Roman Jones said she had clients who had paid Sosa as much as $1,000 and still
ended up in deportation proceedings.

"These notarios have made a bundle," said attorney Rita Altman of West Palm
Beach. "And now there is nothing we can do for these people. They made lives
under the radar for years. They had jobs, families here and now they are being
deported because of these notarios. And there's absolutely nothing we can do.
It's sad."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 1. LUCAS CANNISTRACI/Staff Photographer Aura, with sons Franklin, 2, and
Sergio, 10, says her partner, Jose Antonio Melgar, was deported after he
consulted a notario. 'It was a terrible mistake,' says the Jupiter woman,
declining to give her last name. 2. Fabian Sosa (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT: LANDLORD CAN SUE OVER IMMIGRANT EVICTIONS

BYLINE: By BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


The owner of a Center Street apartment complex that caters to immigrants can go
forward with his lawsuit that claims town officials unfairly targeted immigrants
with its building code.

John White, owner of Young Apartments at 1600 Center St., sued Jupiter in 2005
for an unspecified amount after the town evicted tenants and condemned about
half of the 30 units. Young Apartments had been a source of complaints from
residents alleging overcrowding and harboring of undocumented immigrants. Many
nearby residents contended Young Apartments lowered property values.

"The town was trying to drive the tenants and the landlords out," White said.

White's lawsuit was dismissed in January 2006 by U.S. District Judge Kenneth
Ryskamp on the grounds White did not have standing to sue.

The three-judge Atlanta U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruling issued early this
month states White has grounds to sue. The case goes back to Ryskamp for review.

White agreed to sell Young Apartments for about $3.75 million four years ago,
said William Tedards, White's attorney.

"That could be a starting point for damages we would ask for. But there are many
variables. That number could change," Tedards said.

Young Apartments Inc. bought the property in 2000 for $1.1 million. The property
has an assessed value of $1.3 million, according to county records.

Jill Hanson, legal counsel for the El Sol Neighborhood Resource Center, said the
suit isn't likely to stand. Opened in September 2006, El Sol helps immigrants
find work, education and health programs.

"It's ludicrous to file a discrimination lawsuit against a town that has bent
over backwards to help immigrants," she said.

A town ordinance passed in 2004 limited to five the number of unrelated persons
who could live in an apartment or dwelling. Known as the overcrowding ordinance,
the regulation stated that the number could only be higher than five if the
extra occupants were related by blood or marriage. Town officials contended the
ordinance was needed to provide safety for tenants throughout the town.

White filed the lawsuit after Jupiter police and building officials conducted an
early-morning inspection at his complex. He accused the town of violating the
Constitution's Fourth Amendment, which protects against illegal search and
seizure, and the 14th Amendment, which requires due process.

Jupiter was not targeting specific landlords or trying to drive out immigrants
with the ordinance, said Town Manager Andy Lukasic.

"Our job is to provide safe housing for all residents. That's what we were
doing," Lukasic said.

The Young Apartments are two yellow single-story buildings with white trim on
the east side of Center Street, about one-half mile north of Loxahatchee River
Drive. Most of the 30 apartments, many with torn screens and broken windows,
were empty on Wednesday. Ripped furniture and bags of garbage were piled around
an overstuffed green Dumpster. The only sound on a recent afternoon was humming
from the portable air-conditioners wedged in the windows of the few occupied
units.

Despite the black-and-white signs reading "Do Not Pick Up Workers," several men
sat on the swales, glancing eagerly at passing cars.

~bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRAINSTORMS SMASH INTO DATABASES

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION & IDEAS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 672 words


President Bush issued an executive order this month that requires federal
contractors to check the eligibility of their workers on a government database
called E-Verify.

The idea is to give business owners a way to confirm the identities and
immigration status of employees.

In theory, after going online and clicking the mouse a few times, an employer
should be able to tell whether a prospective worker is legally eligible to be
hired.

In reality, the government has had a hard time getting the database to function
the way it should. During early test runs, about 4 percent of U.S. citizens
entered into the database were incorrectly flagged as illegal immigrants. And
the rate of illegal immigrants mistakenly verified as citizens ran as high as 10
percent.

The same problems that plagued the terrorist watch lists at airports make it
difficult to produce reliable results in the workplace.

E-Verify is supposed to compare the identification information a worker submits
with more than 480 million records in the databases of the Department of
Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration. This is a heavy load
in itself.

Complicating matters further is the bad information about immigrants, both legal
and illegal, that's already in the federal computers: so many similar names,
clerical errors, and fraudulent identities to sort through.

That would be challenging enough, but then there are the predictable problems in
getting two highly bureaucratic government agencies to work together.
Collaborations between SSA and DHS are highly SNAFU-prone. Also, because of
privacy laws, the two agencies are prohibited from sharing information directly.

Trying to get SSA and DHS to cooperate with each other is like asking two divas
to share the same microphone.

Last year, DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff announced tough new rules to crack
down on employers who hire illegal immigrants. The government routinely sends
out "no match" letters to companies that submit employee information -- Social
Security numbers, in particular -- with discrepancies to the government.

Typically, a couple hundred thousand "no match" letters go out each year and
they are ignored a couple hundred thousand times. Mr. Chertoff wanted to start
fining employers and shutting down companies that didn't respond to the letters.

The crackdown was over in a matter of days after a federal judge reminded Mr.
Chertoff and the Bush administration that the government's records were so bad
that innocent, law-abiding employers and employees were sure to suffer
punishment they didn't deserve.

The executive order on E-Verify is this year's version of last year's "no match"
letter brainstorm. About 1 million employees of federal contractors could be
affected. Roughly 53,000 of the nation's 6 million employers are using the
database now.

Beyond that, legislators in 11 states have passed laws requiring contractors who
do state business to use the E-Verify system: Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina and
Utah.

You don't see Florida on this list because lawmakers know enough to worry about
the economic consequences. Florida has earned a reputation as being one of the
"easy" states for getting away with Social Security fraud in the workplace.

The agriculture, construction and service industries are dependent on illegal
labor and already suffering enough without identity verification initiatives
from Tallahassee. Florida is a don't ask, don't tell state when it comes to
labor. No database is going to change that anytime soon.

But someday, Congress may find the courage to pass a comprehensive reform bill
that restores common sense and fairness to the nation's immigration policy, and
a president that isn't George Bush will sign it.

Mr. Chertoff probably won't be there. But his computers might just be running
well enough then to have a role in making the reformed system work.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

NEARLY 30 CUBANS HELD AFTER 1-MILE BOAT CHASE

BYLINE: By DAPHNE DURET Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 278 words


More than two dozen illegal Cuban immigrants were taken into custody and their
suspected smuggler jailed Saturday after authorities caught them trying to come
ashore near Rocky Point.

A marine patrol deputy spotted a 1988 46-foot Sea Ray vessel near St. Lucie
Inlet State Park in the St. Lucie River just after midnight, according to Martin
County Sheriff's Office reports.

The deputy, William Brown, who was on a routine patrol with Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission officer Richard Ornold, stopped the boat and
tried to board it to look at its lighting.

That is when Ruben Hernandez, 26, of Key West sped off in the boat, authorities
said, leading them on a chase for more than a mile before stopping at a dock
near The Reef development in Rocky Point.

Nearly two dozen of the people on board tried to get off the boat and make it to
shore. Another five stayed on the boat, deputies said.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials took into custody the 17 men, five
women and one boy who tried to make it to shore. The ones who stayed on board
were turned over to the Coast Guard and will be sent back to Cuba.

Under the U.S. government policy known as "wet foot, dry foot," Cuban refugees
who make it to U.S. soil before they are captured are allowed to stay in the
country and are granted residency in most cases, but those caught at sea are
returned.

Martin County sheriff's officials charged Hernandez with fleeing or attempting
to elude, resisting an officer with violence and reckless operation of vessel.
He was being held in the Martin County jail without bail Saturday and also faces
charges from immigration officials.

~ daphne_duret@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SIZZLE, BUT NOT MUCH FAJITA

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION & IDEAS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 681 words


Ideally, you should read the next few paragraphs with the Law & Order theme song
playing in the background. The Dragnet theme would be even better.

The date is Wednesday, July 23, 2008.

The place is Cleveland, Ohio.

Cue the soundtrack:

"Special agents with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) today
administratively arrested 58 restaurant employees on immigration violations
after executing federal search warrants at eight Casa Fiesta restaurants
throughout northern Ohio.

"Casa Fiesta is a chain of Mexican restaurants located in Ashland, Fremont,
Norwalk, Oberlin, Oregon, Sandusky, Vermillion and Youngstown, Ohio. The
worksite enforcement operation was the culmination of more than a yearlong
investigation.

" 'ICE criminal worksite enforcement investigations unfold in multiple stages,'
said Brian M. Moskowitz, special agent in charge of the ICE Office of
Investigations in Detroit. 'Executing criminal search warrants and
administratively arresting unauthorized workers is just one step in the
investigative process.' "

Here's where you'd hear that weird ching-choing noise from Law & Order.

Ching-choinnnggg.

The Casa Fiesta raids are a big deal. A very big deal.

We know this because Immigration and Customs Enforcement went to all the trouble
to send out a news release and post it on the agency Web site for the whole
nation to see. The boldfaced headline reads: "ICE arrests 58 employees at 8 Casa
Fiesta restaurants in N. Ohio."

Special Agent Moskowitz and his team of not-quite-special agents needed only a
year of investigation to crack the case and find illegal immigrants from Mexico
working in the kitchens and dining rooms of Mexican restaurants.

If only Arthur Conan Doyle were alive to chronicle the story. It was elementary,
Watson, simple deduction: Where better to administratively arrest unauthorized
Mexicans than in a Mexican restaurant? Brilliant.

What a field day Special Agent Moskowitz would have if he ever made it to South
Florida. Who knows how many unauthorized scoundrels he could roust from the
ethnic kitchens here!

But for now, the good people of Sandusky, Ohio, can sleep easy, knowing that
only the hands of authorized Mexicans will wrap their burritos, stuff their
tacos and chimi their changas.

Ching-choinnnggg.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff told Congress this month that ICE
had "turned the corner" on border control and workplace enforcement. But what
the government is doing is mostly sizzle and not much fajita.

Federal immigration officials thump their chests over small crackdowns such as
the one in Ohio and say that criminal arrests in the workplace are up tenfold
from five years ago. In the first nine months of this year, ICE has made 949
arrests, compared with 72 during 2003.

But these are costly, time-consuming and largely ineffective endeavors. Consider
that there are an estimated 8 million illegal workers in the country. If it
takes Special Agent Moskowitz and the boys a year of gumshoeing to figure out
what's going at Casa Fiesta and make 58 arrests, how many centuries will it take
them to nab the other 7,999,942 illegal workers?

Mr. Chertoff and his public relations staff are telling Congress and the
American people that they've turned a corner. Really, they have barely inched
forward. When it comes to cracking down on employer abuses against illegal
workers, the government lags even further behind.

The folly and futility of restaurant raiding underscores the desperate need for
comprehensive immigration reform and a policy that is rooted in the real world.
ICE can arrest all the dishwashers, cooks and waiters it wants, but it won't
make Americans safer and it won't fix a system that is as broken for employers
as it is for employees.

Without a plan for dealing forthrightly with the 12 million illegal immigrants
living here, workplace enforcement is doomed to fail. Immigration reform has to
be comprehensive to succeed, or at least not look so ridiculous. We really do
need the whole enchilada.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AGENTS TARGETED HISPANICS, LAWYER SAYS

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A local immigration attorney plans to speak publicly today about a recent
complaint she filed, which accuses Immigration and Customs Enforcement of racial
profiling.

Aileen Josephs and other immigration advocates will gather in front of city hall
at 10 a.m. to share concerns that ICE agents targeted the Hispanic population on
Broadway Street in West Palm Beach this month.

But Nicole Navas, ICE spokeswoman, said Tuesday that "it wasn't an ICE
enforcement operation."

According to the complaint, the pastor of a church at 4305 Broadway St. said
people ran into the library of his church the morning of July 16 as ICE agents
drove down the street.

Josephs wrote in the complaint that agents went into a laundromat at 4013
Broadway St. and detained two people, including a married man with three
children.

The complaint stated that ICE agents returned to the same laundromat on July 17,
frightening the community.

"The immigrants along that area are living in constant fear because ICE agents
drive along this street on a daily basis interrogating and detaining people that
look Hispanic," Josephs wrote in the complaint.

The complaint was filed with the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties
Department of Homeland Security.

Josephs said a West Palm Beach police car and officers were also spotted near
the scene, but West Palm Beach Police Chief Delsa Bush said she isn't aware of
any such incident.

When Bush learned of Josephs' concerns, she said ICE agents "assured us they are
not in our city doing random raids."

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AUTHORITIES ACCUSED OF RACIAL PROFILING

BYLINE: By DIANNA SMITH, ANA VALDES and GARY CORONADO Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


She remembers seeing them.

Desperate men, maybe 10, she guesses. All frantically running from a nearby coin
laundry into the shop where Celini Villatoro sells fruits and vegetables to the
hungry.

"Immigration, run, run!" they yelled, pushing through the entrance, only to
vanish moments later through the back door, escaping a fate that would rip them
from their families and return them to countries many risked their lives to
leave.

Villatoro shut off the lights and hid in the dark like a frightened child,
hovering alone behind an old curtain in the back of the store. Like many who
live and work along Broadway Street, Villatoro, 28, is afraid.

"Can you imagine if they take me?" she says.

On Wednesday, immigrant advocates publicly accused agents from Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and U.S. Border Patrol of racial profiling -- detaining only
those who look Hispanic.

The accusation stems from a July 16 raid that immigration attorney Aileen
Josephs explained in a complaint filed this week with the Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties Department of Homeland Security. Agents took two men,
she wrote, including a father of three children who were born in the U.S.

An ICE spokesperson says the agency was not involved, and Assistant Chief Patrol
Agent Victor Colon says he could not specify whether border patrol had officers
on the street then.

But the Rev. Rosendo Gonzalez says they were there. He stood outside his church,
watching men in uniform shock strangers across the street, many fleeing to his
building, hoping a place of worship would be safe.

"They're scared of the police," Gonzalez says.

Witnesses told Josephs that West Palm Beach police officers helped that day, but
Officer Freddy Naranjo said two officers were patrolling the area by coincidence
when they saw federal agents at the coin laundry.

On Wednesday, advocates knocked on doors near those businesses, where people now
live in fear that agents are coming to deport them.

Carlos Cisneros, of the nonprofit group Guatamalan Maya Quetzal Organization
Inc., is trying to help them.

"It's important to go to this meeting," Cisneros says to a woman, explaining
that there will be a gathering at 6 p.m. Saturday to learn what to do if you or
a loved one is detained. The meeting is at 4305 Broadway, Iglesia Evangelica
Nueva Jerusalem.

The woman took the information. She has relatives, she says, who will want to
go.

"Don't be afraid," Cisneros tells her.

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Carlos Cisneros passes out fliers in West Palm
Beach about a civil rights workshop.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 3, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS LEARN ABOUT RIGHTS, HOW TO PROTECT THEM

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


About 130 people, most of them Hispanic day laborers who live along the Broadway
corridor, gathered Saturday night at a local church to hear one message: They
have rights, despite their immigration status.

Using improvised skits to illustrate an exchange between an Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officer and an immigrant, as well as distributing
pocket-sized cards that say "I don't speak English -- I need an interpreter,"
members of the Florida Immigrant Coalition tried to educate the undocumented
community about what to do if immigration officials come knocking at their door.

The Florida Immigrant Coalition, along with the Immigrants Rights Coalition of
Palm Beach County, organized the Know Your Rights workshop after nearby
residents reported seeing federal officials detaining people at a local
laundromat last month.

An ICE representative said the agency was not involved, and Border Patrol
Assistant Chief Patrol Agent Victor Colon said he could not specify whether his
agency had officers on the street then.

"Do not say anything. Do not sign anything. Do not lie. Ask to speak to a
lawyer," said workshop leader Subhash Kateel, offering the group at Iglesia
Nueva Jerusalem a simple plan of action in case they encounter ICE or border
patrol officials.

Cooperating with authorities, finding out whether you have an order of
deportation and knowing where to leave your children in case you are detained
also were on Kateel's lists of suggestions.

"We are not here to scare you," Kateel said. "We need to know when to express
these rights,because for every right we have, there is someone that will want to
take these rights away from us."

Roberto Monjarás, community organizer for Grupo Guatemalteco Broadway, advised
his fellow Guatemalans to have their finances in order and make arrangements
with relatives in case an immigration issue comes up.

Monjarás also suggested using cellphones to call or send text messages to
friends and family when rumors spread about immigration raids.

"We need to take this seriously," said Monjarás. "The situation isn't like it
was before."

Coalition member Christine Jones said she was surprised with Saturday's turnout,
considering the fear that many undocumented immigrants have. The coalition plans
more workshops, she said.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 8, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUSPECTED MEMBERS OF GANGS ARRESTED

BYLINE: By ROCHELLE E.B. GILKEN and JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 290 words


Federal immigration agents announced Thursday that they had arrested 321
suspected members of street gangs in South Florida - many of whom are immigrants
- in a monthlong operation.

According to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, those arrested operated
from Lake Worth to Miami and were associated with gangs including MS-13 or Mara
Salvatrucha, SUR-13 or Sureños, the Uptown, Victory Park, Top Six, Bloods, 18th
Street, 21 Jump, INP, FAME, Washington Park, 170 Boys, 90's Babies, Hollywood
Squares, Leisure City and One Way gangs.

The suspects were arrested by the federal agency and cooperating agencies,
including the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, between June 18 and July 25.

Nicole Navas, spokeswoman for the federal agency, said the initiative aimed at
taking violent offenders and gang members off the street, but not all of the
people arrested were affiliated with gangs.

Most of those arrested are from other countries, including Cuba, Haiti, Mexico,
Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Nicaragua, Jamaica, El Salvador, Colombia and
Chile, Navas said.

According to an ICE report, many of the suspects face immigration charges, and
308 of the suspects also face other felony charges, ranging from racketeering to
attempted murder.

The sweep included one man who was deported for criminal activity but returned
to this country. Reentering the United States after being deported carries
penalties including 20 years in federal prison.

Federal agents would not release the names or number of suspects arrested in
Palm Beach County, citing a 1974 federal privacy law.

Navas said some of the suspects were released on bond and others were being held
in jails throughout South Florida.

- rochelle_gilken@pbpost.com

- jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 15, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAN MENACING MEAT KEEP BORDER BLOCKED TIGHTER THAN AN ARTERY?

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 619 words


Finally, it looks as if our immigration problem has been solved.

After scores of fruitless approaches -- fences, national ID cards, vigilantes,
surprise inspections on employers, high-tech border patrol gadgets -- help has
come from an unlikely source:

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

You wouldn't think that the illegal immigration of people would be a PETA
concern.

But this week, Lindsay Rajt, the manager of PETA's vegan unit, wrote a letter to
W. Ralph Basham, the commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, to
propose a "win-win proposition" for America's security.

"Mexicans and other immigrants should be warned that if they cross into the
U.S., they put their health at risk by leaving behind a healthier diet that
includes staples of grains, vegetables, rice, beans, corn and tortillas," the
letter said.

If only these people knew just how perilous coming to America would be to their
cholesterol!

Maybe they'll chicken out

PETA offered to put up billboards on the border to warn immigrants in both
Spanish and English that they'd be better off staying at home in their
impoverished countries. These colorful billboards show smiling,
watermelon-eating Central Americans juxtaposed with sad-faced, overfed
Americans, particularly a plump woman eating a huge chicken leg.

The carnivorous Americans are apparently living under a disapproving sun. I say
this because the sun has a face and it's frowning. But on the non-American side
of the billboard, everything seems pretty chipper, under the accompaniment of a
strumming acoustic guitarist.

The words on the billboard say, "If the Border Patrol doesn't get you, the
chicken and burgers will. Go vegan."

Rajt said she thought the message could be "frightening enough to deter people
from crossing into the U.S."

Being that we don't have a land border in Florida, we'd have to post these
billboards along our shore, and we'd better add Creole to the language list.

So here's how it would work:

Let's say we have a hypothetical boat full of Haitians who have braved the
Florida Straits in a rickety, overloaded craft. After days of rolling seas,
blistering sun and near starvation, they spot the Florida coastline.

They'll see the light

Let's say it's somewhere around Manalapan. They wait until night to make their
landing, and as they near the beach, they see the PETA billboard.

Oops. We're going to need a light on the billboard, being that people try to
slip in at night.

OK, they see the big PETA billboard, because it has a bright light ... better
make that a turtle-friendly light.

There is great relief and joy.

But then somebody on the boat reads the message on the billboard and sees the
drawings of those Americans eating high-protein food not available to the poor
Haitian peasants.

And naturally, their empty stomachs groan. But a second later, their minds kick
in and they start thinking, "Do I really want to increase my chance of heart
disease, colon cancer and obesity-related illnesses due to the animal fat in
American diets?"

And before these peasants even get both feet on some mansion's back lawn, they
realize that they were much better off in their dirt-poor, involuntarily vegan
village. So, one by one, they get back in the boat, and then push off back to
Haiti.

Immigration issue solved.

As PETA's letter to the Border Patrol commissioner said: "The U.S. is no longer
'the land of the free and the home of the brave,' but the land of the sick and
the home of the obese."

If that doesn't work, I have a backup plan:

Line the coastline with Tofurky. That ought to drive them away.

~frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

PalmBeachPost.com/cerabino

- See the weekly Street Level video

- Sound off on Bino's Blogaroni

- Browse past columns, special features

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RELIVES DEPORTATION NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: By ANA VALDES and DIANNA SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 619 words


He wasn't supposed to be there that day.

The coin laundry at 43rd Street and Broadway in West Palm Beach was where his
wife worked, but she was tired that July morning. So as a good husband and
father should, Aimer David Guillén offered to help.

He would work in her place, he decided, allowing her to stay and spoil their
three children with motherly love.

Guillén never came home.

He was plucked from his life at the laundry July 16 and dropped into a country
he had fled nine years earlier. Like many others who dare to leave Mexico,
Guillén was searching for a better life.

And he found it in America.

"The only thing I have done in this country is work and work," says Guillén, who
lived in West Palm Beach and worked in construction and landscaping jobs. "The
only problem is having a Latino-looking face."

He was arrested, deported and treated like a criminal, he says, though he does
not have a record. He is now in Chiapas, Mexico, with his parents, recovering
from the nightmare he lived after his arrest.

That July morning, Guillén recalls, Border Patrol agents entered, demanding to
see papers to prove he was in the United States legally.

Guillén had none to give.

He and a Guatemalan man who was washing clothes at the time were shoved into a
van, onlookers say, while other customers fled to a nearby church, hoping a
place of worship would keep them safe.

The men were taken to a detention center in Pompano Beach.

A Border Patrol spokesman could not confirm that agents were at the laundry that
day.

At the detention center, Guillén was forced to wear an orange prison jumpsuit.
He says he ate only when a guard let him buy chips and soda with the money he
had with him when he was detained.

"Some guards are nice people, but others are racist. If they get upset, they
scream at you," he says.

Thirteen days later, Guillén left Pompano Beach in handcuffs and shackles and
headed to Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County. He slept in a small cell
with 60 other Mexicans and was given a piece of bread, a pear and apple juice
daily. He did not drink the juice, he said, because there was no bathroom
nearby.

In early August, he boarded a plane in handcuffs once again, this time on his
way to Texas. There he was placed on a bus and dropped in Mexico City, where he
was robbed by a taxi driver while trying to get to Chiapas.

"I do not wish anybody to live what I lived through. Look how they treated me,"
Guillén says. "It is not fair that they treat an immigrant like a criminal. They
bring you to your homeland like a criminal."

Nicole Navas, spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, would
not comment on the conditions of the detention centers but said detainees
receive a list of whom to call with complaints.

Guillén did not file one, but local immigration attorney Aileen Josephs did. She
alleges that Border Patrol agents used racial profiling to detain Guillén and
describes the alleged raid in the complaint with the Office for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

While Josephs fights for immigrants' rights, Guillén is in Mexico, trying to
plan his new life.

Maybe he could farm, he says, or start his own business.

He patiently awaits his wife's arrival in December and is happy that his
children are now with him.

All of the children, ages, 8, 6 and 4, are American citizens.

Their father worries about them daily and asks himself often whether he has
shattered their American dream.

"You can't sacrifice them for me being undocumented," Guillén says.

He promises that if they ever want to return to the only place they know as
home, Guillén will gladly let them.

But their father says he will not follow.

~ dianna_smith@pbpost.com

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 Aimer David Guillén (mug)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECORD 'DIRTY' THE DAY HE ENTERED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 320 words


Re: "Immigrant relives deportation nightmare," (Aug. 16): I feel that the
article was misleading and reached a new level of absurdity in journalism.

The subtitle reads: "Despite a clean record, he was detained and deported to
Mexico." I guess entering our country illegally doesn't count. Perhaps those
with "clean records" should be automatically excused for any past crimes, and
the law of the land selectively ignored in this case. The opening sentence, "He
wasn't supposed to be there that day," should have been "He wasn't supposed to
be in this country that day."

The article goes on to lament Mr. Guillen's treatment at the hands of the Border
Patrol. I don't think anyone caught living in any other country illegally would
be treated any better, particularly an American caught living illegally in
Mexico. Mexico has strict laws about undocumented foreigners and does not
hesitate to enforce those laws. Perhaps if more people respected our laws and
feared the consequences of their enforcement, they would be more likely to
attempt to enter our country through legal means. Allowing people like Mr.
Guillen to live here freely is a slap at those who follow the rules and come
here legally.

I was also disheartened to read that Mr. Guillen has an attorney who is all too
happy to file a complaint on his behalf. Finally, the article attempts to tug on
the heartstrings of the reader by mentioning Mr. Guillen's children. As the
reporters point out -- to make sure we don't miss the point -- they "are
American citizens." Of course, the author does not point out that this is
because of the "anchor baby" policy of our government, which allows children of
illegals automatic citizenship, a policy found almost nowhere else in the world.

Please limit all further articles to simple, clear facts, with no attempts to
mislead readers by hiding facts behind veils of emotionalism and political
correctness.

RAFAEL A. DIAZ

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC: ILLEGAL IS AS ILLEGAL DOES

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SWEEP NETS 44 TARGETED FOR DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 250 words


Federal agents have rounded up 44 fugitives, including 25 from Palm Beach
County, on immigration and other criminal charges last week.

According to a report from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency
targeted fugitives in Palm Beach and Orange counties who had orders from the
federal government to be deported, said agency spokeswoman Nicole Navas.

At least five of those arrested for deportation have criminal convictions
varying from prostitution to drug and gun possession.

The arrests took place last Wednesday though Friday, Navas said.

Among the people arrested was 48-year-old Jamaican national Devon James, of
Loxahatchee, who entered the United States in 1980. According to the report, a
federal judge ordered James to be deported after he failed to show up for an
immigration hearing.

In the Orlando area, agents arrested 35-year-old Dominican Republic native Jose
Erasmo De La Rosa, who entered the U.S. in 1989. A judge ordered him to be
deported in 2007 because of criminal convictions, such as one for committing
lewd acts with a child younger than 16, according to the report.

Of the 44 fugitives arrested, 18 have been released with ankle bracelets to
monitor their whereabouts.

These people still face deportation but were released from jail because of
health concerns or because there was no one to care for their children, Navas
said.

The rest were taken to federal immigration detention centers in Broward and
Miami-Dade counties to await deportation.

~ jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 30, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOUR CHARGED WITH SELLING FAKE PAPERS TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 175 words


Four South Floridians sold undocumented immigrants fake memberships to an
American Indian tribe that would have allowed the immigrants to live and work in
America, the U.S. Attorney's Office said Friday.

Audie Watson, 75, of Tamarac, Nancy Vertus, 40, of Lake Worth, and Anibal Reyes,
38, and his wife, Laura Reyes, 38, of Port St. Lucie, were arrested Friday on
conspiracy and other charges.

Starting in August 2005, Watson, Vertus and the Reyeses allegedly used a Tamarac
company called Universal Service Dedicated to God Inc. to charge immigrants
$1,500 per person or $2,000 per couple for memberships to the Pembina Nation
Little Shell Tribe, the U.S. Attorney's Office said.

In exchange for the money, the immigrants were given fraudulent documents and
told that the papers authorized them to live and work in the U.S. legally, the
statement said.

Watson, Vertus and the Reyeses appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry S.
Seltzer in Fort Lauderdale. The Reyeses were released on bond. Detention
hearings are slated for Watson and Vertus on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REMOVE VESTIGE OF JIM CROW

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 192 words


Acting out of fear of the "Yellow Peril," Florida amended the state constitution
in 1926 to ban "aliens ineligible for citizenship" from owning land. The "Yellow
Peril" fear of Asian immigration has been replaced by fears of illegal Hispanic
immigration, but the ban remains.

It shouldn't. Such outdated xenophobia has been removed from state constitutions
nationwide -- most recently in New Mexico and Wyoming -- leaving Florida as the
last state with a constitutional throwback to racist "Jim Crow" laws. Amendment
1 on the Nov. 4 ballot would remove the ban. Passage requires support from 60
percent of voters. The Legislature voted to hold the referendum in the closing
moments of the 2007 session at the urging of state Sen. Steve Geller,
D-Hallandale Beach.

Even though the ban never had been applied, passage did not come without a
fight. Rep. Mitch Needelman, R-Melbourne, argued that it would be nice to keep
it around as an immigration-fighting tool. Thirty House members agreed with Rep.
Needelman. Voters can tell them how wrong they were by erasing this stain from a
racist past.

* For all Post endorsements to date:

PalmBeachPost.com/endorsements

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL ENDORSEMENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 6, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONFUSION COULD DOOM SYMBOLIC BAN ON ANTI-IMMIGRANT BIAS, EXPERTS FEAR

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Florida is the only state in the nation with an archaic law designed to give the
legislature the ability to discriminate against Asian immigrants.

But voters could strike that law on Nov. 4 by approving a constitutional
amendment that lawmakers placed on the ballot.

The Florida Legislature added the "alien land law" to the state constitution in
1926, restricting the ownership of property by immigrants ineligible for
citizenship.

At the time, federal law granted naturalized citizenship only to whites and to
blacks of African descent.

The legislature never has passed any laws under the provision and could not
anyway, experts say, because it violates the U.S. Constitution by discriminating
against a class of individuals based on race.

Taking the 23 words out of the state constitution after nearly a century
wouldn't have any effect at all, said the Senate sponsor of the measure, Steve
Geller, D-Cooper City. But it would have a symbolic meaning, similar to removing
laws allowing slavery, he said.

"It's Jim Crow in the broad sense. It's a racial segregation law," said Jack
Chin, a University of Arizona law professor who headed a group of law students
who discovered discriminatory laws and began an effort to remove them.

Proponents of Amendment 1, titled "Relating to Property Rights/Ineligible
Aliens," fear that even voters who want to take the racially motivated clause
out of the constitution won't understand what the proposal means, or worse.

"The problem with passing it is the way it's worded -- I'm afraid people will
get confused and think it deals with illegal aliens or terrorists or whatever,"
said Geller, who is leaving office because of term limits.

Although the Senate unanimously approved the 2007 resolution, which required
two-thirds approval by each chamber to get onto this year's ballot, 31 House
Republicans voted against it.

That's because they did not understand it, Geller believes.

"Why would you give the opportunity to someone who is ineligible to become a
citizen to enjoy the rights our citizens should enjoy?" Rep. Mitch Needleman,
R-Melbourne, asked in arguing against the measure. "This is a major change in
the constitution."

As of 2000, just four states had alien land laws on the books: New Mexico,
Florida, Wyoming and Kansas.

Lawmakers in Kansas and Wyoming have repealed theirs, Chin said.

But Florida's and New Mexico's laws were in the state constitutions, requiring
voter approval to strike them. The measure failed in New Mexico in 2004 but
passed in 2006, leaving Florida the final state with the law.

"It all adds up to the inherent difficulty in understanding what the issue is,
coupled with the length of the ballot and the other hot issues," Chin said. "I
wouldn't be surprised at all if, on the one hand, the majority of the people of
Florida don't want to discriminate on the basis of race for landownership, but
the proposition fails."

Asian-American civil rights organizations have been practically mum on the
amendment, and even national experts on the topic of alien land laws are unaware
that it's on the ballot, fueling worries that it may not pass.

"I believe a lot of individuals who wouldn't tolerate these types of laws would
have no idea what they're voting for and may not cast a vote to strike it out,"
said Vincent Eng, deputy director of the Washington-based Asian American Justice
Center, who also teaches a law course on alien land laws at Columbia University.

This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, a
federal law that granted reparations to Japanese-Americans whom the U.S.
government had held in internment camps during World War II.

That makes passage of the amendment even more symbolic, said Eng, who was
unaware that the measure would be coming before Florida voters on the November
ballot.

"Florida taking action on the 20th anniversary of the redress is sending the
statement that the past abuses against the Japanese and Asian-Americans in
general really cannot be tolerated," he said.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

Text of Amendment 1

Relating to Property Rights/Ineligible Aliens

Delete from state constitution the provisions authorizing the Legislature to
regulate or prohibit the ownership, inheritance, disposition, and possession of
real property by aliens ineligible for citizenship.

Other proposed amendments

Here are the other measures on the Nov. 4 statewide ballot. The state Supreme
Court has struck Amendments 5, 7 and 9.

2: Gay marriage:Defines marriage as the legal union of one man and one woman as
husband and wife.

3: Energy/hurricane tax break:Exempts energy efficiency or windstorm protection
work on homes from property tax assessments.

4: Conservation land tax break:Exempts land held in perpetuity for conservation
from property taxes; other conservation lands would be taxed on their current
use.

6: 'Working waterfront' tax break:Creates a property tax break for waterfront
businesses, such as marinas and boat repair shops, that do not intend to convert
to a more lucrative use, such as condos.

8: Community colleges:Allows local-option sales taxes to support community
colleges if approved by local voters.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ELECTION 2008 Info box at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TOO BAD WE CAN'T REPEAL CONFUSING BALLOT LINGO

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 607 words


When you vote, you'll probably have no idea what's going on with Amendment 1 on
the ballot.

And I don't blame you.

First of all, you have to navigate the language. It's not easy.

You're asked if you want to "delete" something in the Florida Constitution that
"prohibits" something else. So you have to get your double-negative thinking
caps on for that one.

Here's the Declaration of Rights Amendment:

"Proposing an amendment to the state Constitution to delete provisions
authorizing the Legislature to regulate or prohibit the ownership, inheritance,
disposition, and possession of real property by aliens ineligible for
citizenship."

Hmm. That's odd. It sounds like the amendment wants to make it easier for
illegal immigrants to own Florida property, doesn't it?

What's the deal here? Are we just caving in to illegal immigration from Latin
America? Somebody call Lou Dobbs!

Or wait, maybe Amendment 1 is all about China and India. Maybe we figured that
as long as we've shipped all our money to Asia, we might as well encourage
non-citizen immigrants from Asia to recycle our old money back into the Florida
real estate we can't unload on our fellow citizens?

Land restrictions lifted long ago

It turns out that Amendment 1 does have something to do with the Chinese. Just
not the Chinese from this century. Let me explain.

In the beginning of the last century, alien land laws were all the rage as Asian
immigrants streamed into America's West Coast. Asians were denied citizenship
and property by laws prohibiting ownership to "aliens ineligible for
citizenship."

"Those words were just legal code," said University of Arizona law professor
Gabriel J. Chin. "The courts never applied this law to anybody but Asians."

After World War II, attitudes softened. The Immigration and Nationality Act of
1952 abolished racial restrictions on citizenship and land ownership. Fifteen
states, including Florida, had included the cryptic racial restrictions into
their state constitutions. Others had it written into state statutes.

During the second half of the 20th century, nearly all these outdated
restrictions were repealed.

But eight years ago, when Chin started the Alien Land Law Project, he and his
researchers discovered that Kansas and Wyoming still had state laws on the books
and New Mexico and Florida still had state constitutional provisions that
prohibited land sales to this now non-existent group of people.

Chin's group petitioned the four states to remove this remnant from America's
past.

"Kansas and Wyoming did it immediately," he said.

But because New Mexico and Florida had the provision written into their
constitutions, the only way to do it was to put another constitutional amendment
on their ballots.

New Mexico did that in 2004 -- and it got voted down.

"I think they were just confused over what it was about," Chin said. "They've
misunderstood the history here."

Another proud moment for Florida

It took a second attempt for New Mexico to clean the outdated language out of
its constitution.

That gives Florida the dubious distinction of being the only state that has hung
onto this embarrassing artifact, 56 years after it became obsolete.

Everybody should vote "Yes" on Amendment 1. There isn't an argument against it.

But I'm guessing that there's a decent chance it won't pass.

That's because Florida's way-overdue attempt to address the xenophobia of the
early 20th century has collided with the xenophobia of early 21st century. And
there will be people who will vote against Amendment 1, thinking that they're
striking back at today's immigrants. That is, if they can follow the twists in
the ballot language.

~ frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD DETAINS 26 IMMIGRANTS IN BROWARD

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 102 words


The U.S. Coast Guard detained 26 immigrants Saturday after an anonymous person
reported a disabled vessel off the coast of Pompano Beach, according to The
Miami Herald. Coast Guard Petty Officer and spokesman Nick Ameen said the
immigrants were put into custody without use of force. Investigators discovered
the boat left from the Bahamas, but it was not clear whether the immigrants were
themselves Bahamian. Ameen said the immigrants are now in Coast Guard custody
and will be provided with water, food and shelter. The smuggling of undocumented
immigrants from the Bahamas is a common occurrence, Ameen said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'SMUGGLER' RESPONSE WRAPS MASSIVE DRILL

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA and ELIOT KLEINBERG Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: PORT EVERGLADES


The people smugglers were headed south to pick up their human cargo, but someone
spotted them leaving Hillsboro Inlet and called the sheriff's office.

About 4 miles offshore, they suddenly found themselves pursued by a swarm of
speeding boats from a half dozen military and law enforcement agencies. Blue
lights flashed, and a siren sounded. A big Blackhawk Border Patrol helicopter
buzzed menacingly not far above the water like a giant wasp.

The would-be "smugglers," outgunned, finally gave up.

That was the scenario Thursday as the Homeland Security Task Force Southeast
conducted the second day of its two-day "mass migration exercise," the largest
such drill in the history of the state.

The exercise simulated a large seaborne exodus of people from Cuba, caused by
political unrest on the island. It also simulated the response of local, state
and federal authorities in trying to protect the Florida coastline and turn back
the would-be refugees.

Many experts on Cuba now say they do not believe a mass exodus will occur
anytime soon. Fidel Castro stepped down from power July 31 because of illness
and handed control of the government to his brother Raul. Although some of the
same experts in Miami had projected that would cause widespread unrest on the
island, none has occurred.

But Zachary Mann, spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said a
message was being sent to Florida boat owners who may try to go to sea to rescue
people from Cuba or any other Caribbean nation, heading north in case of an
exodus.

"Our message to everyone is don't do it because it is both dangerous and
illegal," Mann said. "And to people smugglers who would be heading south in
order to turn a profit, we want them to realize that they will get caught."

Ironically, two real-life smugglers did not get caught Thursday. At 4:15 a.m.,
21 Cuban immigrants really were dropped off, apparently by a smuggling boat, at
59th Street and Collins Avenue in Miami Beach. At 7:30 a.m., another 19 were
dropped off a few miles north at Haulover Beach.

Border Protection officials were processing them Thursday afternoon.

The more successful simulated scene in the waters of Port Everglades deployed
about a dozen law enforcement boats from the Broward County Sheriff's Office,
Fort Lauderdale and Hollywood police, Border Protection and the Coast Guard.

The scene was clearly meant to dissuade anyone in Florida from taking to sea to
bring Cuban nationals to the U.S. for love or money.

Twenty-one journalists were allowed aboard the 87-foot Coast Guard cutter
Bluefin to view and report on the event to make sure the public gets the
message.

At a news conference later, Coast Guard Rear Adm. David Kunkel said in the case
of a large seaborne exodus from any Caribbean nation, local, state and federal
governments have the authority to prohibit all boat traffic from leaving the
coast, including marinas. Kunkel said he hoped it never would come to that.

But he added, "There will be no tolerance of uncontrolled boaters" coming north
or going south.

The message was particularly meaningful to Ramon Saul Sanchez, head of the
Democracia Movement, who has organized flotillas of Cuban exile boats to the
edge of Cuba's territorial waters. Sanchez has vowed to try to reach Cuba in
boats from South Florida if unrest erupts in Cuba, not to bring migrants but to
help the Cuban opposition on the island.

"The Coast Guard does have the rights to set up security zones and prohibit all
boat traffic and plane traffic in a certain area," Sanchez said. "I think it's
unconstitutional, but they do have that authority."

In the past, Sanchez has staged protests in Miami, tying up major highways and
streets. He has pledged to do so again if his boats are stopped from heading to
Cuba in a time of crisis.

Thursday's exercise played out in Palm Beach County, too.

In Boca Raton, a dozen volunteer actors landed just south of the South Beach
Pavilion about 1 p.m. Six fled as police yelled in Spanish for them to stop. The
six eventually were captured.

Nearby Boca Raton Community Hospital later simulated the arrival of five of the
"migrants." Two were portrayed as carrying contagious diseases, forcing the
hospital to declare a "code yellow" for containment.

"It was a very positive exercise," said Carl Larsen, a senior manager for Palm
Beach County Emergency Management.

"If we get thousands coming on shore in Palm Beach County, we're going to be
overwhelmed," he said. "There's no question."

- john_lantigua@pbpost.com

- eliot_kleinberg@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W)
 ELIZA GUTIERREZ/Staff Photographer A beachgoer watches as John Luka of Boca
Raton Ocean Rescue tends to David Frees during Thursday's exercise.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
