
                               1 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 30, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

JEWISH, HISPANIC COALITION TO LOBBY STATE LAWMAKERS

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA NAVARRO CLIFTON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A coalition of Jewish and Hispanic leaders will head to Tallahassee today to
give lawmakers their views on farmworker rights, in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants and revising rules for issuing driver licenses to non-citizens.

The nine-member delegation includes representatives from the American Jewish
Committee, Jewish Community Relations Council, Farmworker Coordinating Council
of Palm Beach County, Catholic Charities, and the Children's Services Council.

The group plans to remind lawmakers of their opposition to the state's tightened
standards for issuing Florida driver licenses. Since the attacks of Sept. 11,
the state began enforcing its rules for issuing, renewing and replacing driver
licenses and state identification cards.

Without proof of legal status, non-citizens are refused both driver licenses and
ID cards. Thirteen of the 19 Sept. 11 terrorists had legally issued Florida
driver licenses or identification cards.

Local attorney Shane O'Meara says he's not expecting to change many legislators'
minds, especially during a war and a heightened state of alert against
foreigners. But he wants to plant a seed for consideration next year.

The coalition would like lawmakers to grandfather people who legally obtained
driver licenses before stricter laws went into effect in 1999. With stricter
enforcement, undocumented drivers who can't renew licenses because of
immigration status drive anyway - without licenses or insurance.

"Nobody right now is into catering to someone who isn't legal or making their
lives easier," O'Meara said. "But it really kind of affects the rest of us as
well."

For Aileen Josephs, an immigration attorney and member of the American Jewish
Committee advisory board, this will be her first lobbying trip to the state
Capitol. She will be backing proposed legislation that will allow illegal
immigrant high school graduates to pay in-state tuition at Florida universities.

"Once they graduate, these undocumented students can't work, can't afford
out-of-state tuition and can't accept the scholarships they've earned," Josephs
said. "This bill would not grant them residency, but it would let them know
they're not being set aside, without a future."

Another proposed bill would allow farmworkers to sue growers for minimum wage
violations committed by contractors or middlemen.

The House bill sponsored by Rep. Frank Peterman D-St. Petersburg, is being
called an "anti-slavery" law, in response to a November court case where two
brothers were sentenced to 34 years in prison and ordered to pay $3 million for
running a smuggling operation that prosecutors said held workers in "involuntary
servitude."

Members of the group hope there is strength in numbers.

"Together as a coalition, we have more force," Josephs said. "If we want to help
people at this moment, we have to advocate."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2003

CORRECTION:

Because of incorrect information from the American Jewish Committee's Palm Beach
County chapter, The Palm Beach Post Sunday mistakenly said the Children's
Services Council was represented in a delegation lobbying legislators in
Tallahassee. In fact, a council staff member joined the delegation in a private
capacity, not on behalf of the council. The story appeared on Page 3C of the
Local section.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               2 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 4, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

TREAT THE ILLEGALS ISSUE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 403 words


Too often, the nation's hospitals pay for a U.S. immigration policy that ignores
economic realities and sends mixed messages to foreign workers.

Illegal immigration soared with the American economy during the 1990s, and the
number of undocumented residents is at an all-time high: an estimated 7.5
million. Most of them came from Mexico, crossing the porous border to fill
waiting low-wage jobs that offer no health benefits.

When illegal immigrants and their families get sick or injured, they go to
emergency rooms. Federal law requires hospitals to provide care to anyone with a
life-threatening condition who walks through the door, regardless of the ability
to pay or immigration status. Health-care providers along the border have tried
to deal with these financial burdens for years, and now the growing immigrant
population has brought the problem to hospitals across the country. Martin
Memorial Medical Center in Stuart has paid close to $1 million to care for a
Guatemalan man who sustained a brain injury in an auto accident two years ago.
Nationally, the uncollectible bills likely run into the billions.

The General Accounting Office is studying the problem and should have a report
for Congress by year's end. Lawmakers may expand Medicaid reimbursements for
illegal residents. The federal government that is supposed to control borders
and make immigration policies work should help pay for its failings. But
employers should, too. Companies that benefit from cheap labor and provide
workers no insurance have escaped accountability for too long. Employment is the
reason most illegals come here, and their employers should not profit at the
expense of hospitals.

Immigration reforms are essential. U.S.-Mexico relations have to acknowledge the
reality that the 2,000-mile border separates a wealthy country and a poor one,
so economic migration is inevitable. But U.S. and Mexican officials can create a
legal path for migrants by developing a temporary work program that could serve
as a model for others. Foreign workers already here and contributing to the
economy need programs that provide ways to legal status and inclusion in
health-care systems.

Poor immigrants who show up at emergency rooms drive up medical expenses for
everyone. Hospitals need the help of government and business to cover the
unreasonable costs of the nation's dysfunctional approach to immigration.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               3 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 11, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS AHEAD OF BUSH ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 512 words


President Bush says he has a plan that would give millions of undocumented
workers legal status and reform the nation's irrational approach to immigration.
But what he has offered is a vague concept.

Details mean everything with guest-worker programs, and President Bush disclosed
few of his. He said his proposal would allow millions of illegal immigrants now
here to get work visas for three years and renew them for an unspecified period,
if they can prove they have jobs and their employers can prove that no Americans
are available to do the work. The president said he will work with lawmakers to
increase the annual number of green cards issued and clear a broader path for
citizenship. Again, he gave no details on how he will do it.

The White House is trying to catch up to Congress in dealing progressively with
between 8 million and 10 million illegal immigrants who are essential to the
U.S. economy. The most promising plan with details is the Agricultural Job
Opportunity and Security Act, sponsored by Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., with
bipartisan support from 50 colleagues. For example, a worker who completes 2,060
hours of agricultural labor - or 360 workdays - during a six-year period would
become eligible for permanent status.

Sen. Graham's legislation also attempts to remedy abuses of guest-worker
programs by detailing housing, transportation and wage requirements for
employers. Other proposals would expand Sen. Graham's provisions beyond
agriculture. The president's cumbersome offering would have problems operating
in the real world. He wants workers and employers to apply for his program
virtually hand-in-hand, which is impractical. Qualified applicants could face
15-year waits for residency because of delays in getting green cards. The system
must not be slanted further to reward employers at the expense of the people who
are doing the work.

President Bush has an economic summit this week with Mexican President Vicente
Fox, who has been lobbying the White House for immigration changes for three
years and has much to gain at home from finally getting them. Mr. Bush should
look at the AgJOBS Act and see the finished product for his sketchy conceptual
prototype.

Political crosscurrents will continue to pull the debate in all directions. Mr.
Bush's reawakening on the issue comes during an election year. Hispanics make up
most of the undocumented and are the nation's fastest-growing ethnic minority.
Anti-immigration conservatives charge that the president is proposing amnesty
and has gone too far. But even without details, it's clear that his guidelines
allow nothing so sweeping and, in fact, don't go far enough.

Beyond the moral imperative to end the abuses of migrant workers that this paper
documented, Americans have good reasons to embrace an overhaul. Employers would
get a reliable, stable labor pool, and homeland security officials would be
better able to control borders and identify foreigners. President Bush doesn't
have the best plan for reform, but at least he has turned in the right
direction.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               4 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 14, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL - AND ESSENTIAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 416 words


If every so-called illegal immigrant were deported today, the U.S. economy would
go into a tailspin tomorrow. The United States depends on foreign workers to
fill essential jobs Americans don't want. Yet American immigration policy
ignores the need, unevenly enforcing laws that no longer are relevant or
effective. Government creates a class of people that is both essential and
illegal.

It turns out that the strong economy of the 1990's grew this misbegotten class
beyond expectations. New census data suggests that the number of undocumented
immigrants is as high as 11 million, which would be almost twice previous
estimates. Reforms that bridge the gap between illegal and essential do not have
to be tumultuous. They can be quiet and expeditious.

President Bush made such a change this month when he granted limited amnesty to
thousands of illegal Salvadoran immigrants. He said they may stay for 18 months
while El Salvador recovers from two devastating January earthquakes. Both
countries benefit: The United States keeps workers it needs, and El Salvador
keeps their dollars flowing south to fuel recovery.

Another positive change came from Mexico, where President Vicente Fox announced
a push to lower the cost of wiring money to his country from the United States.
Mexican migrant workers routinely must pay exorbitant rates to send money home.
Because of high commissions and poor exchange rates at storefront money services
that have spread through Hispanic neighborhoods, those sending money can lose as
much as 30 percent during the transaction. Mexican workers may send home at
least $6 billion a year, perhaps $9 billion, raising the possibility that about
$2 billion might be lost in transit. Most immigrants are reluctant to open bank
accounts because they fear questions about their status.

The Bush administration supports President Fox's initiative, which grew out of
last month's meeting between the two leaders. Again, both nations benefit. With
less money skimmed off by middlemen, more of it gets to Mexico, which can use
the infusion, and more of it stays here to make conditions better for migrant
workers and their families, about 60 percent of whom fall below the poverty
line.

Neither the amnesty for Salvadorans nor the transaction reforms for Mexicans
required debate, expenditure nor legislative action. Yet both changes make
meaningful improvements to the lives of working immigrants, legal or not. The
basis for each is fairness.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               5 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 5, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION ACTUALLY A SUBSIDY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 164 words


Molly Ivins' July 22 column "Immigration, exploitation looking for union label"
was an excellent expose on the real situation concerning the nation's so-called
"immigration problem."

The U.S. economy, as stated in the article, rests on the sweat and hard work of
illegal workers. The answer to curtailing immigration lies in, among other
things, the economic development of poorer countries as well as national
policies such as raising the minimum wage in the United States for the
back-breaking and underpaid jobs in the agricultural and meat-packing
industries. Then, these jobs would attract U.S. workers, and only then could we
say that illegal immigrants were taking the jobs of U.S. workers.

Meanwhile, to perpetuate the myth of an "immigration problem" is a way of
keeping the status quo. The "immigration problem" today is in fact a subsidy -
in the form of the hard work and sweat of illegal workers - to the nation.

AILEEN WALBORSKY-JOSEPHS

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               6 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 28, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

DON'T LIMIT AMNESTY PROGRAM, NAACP SAYS

BYLINE: Eunice Moscoso, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


NAACP Chairman Julian Bond joined union leaders Monday to urge the Bush
administration to include people of all races and nationalities in any plan to
legalize undocumented immigrants.

"We cannot have one immigration policy for people originally from Mexico and
another for people originally from Jamaica, or Haiti, or the Dominican Republic,
or Somalia, or Ethiopia," he said. "We've seen too much of that in the history
of our country. Too much division based on where you're from or what you look
like."

Bond made the statements at a press conference, where he joined forces with two
labor unions - the Service Employees International Union and the Laborers'
International Union of North America - who have been pushing for legalization of
undocumented workers from all countries.

Native-born workers and immigrants have the same needs - good jobs, quality
education, affordable health care and decent housing, Bond said.

"But we cannot achieve these common goals as long as millions of working people
do not have legal status and fundamental civil rights."

The Bush administration has been working on a plan that could grant legal
residency to several million Mexicans living in the United States illegally. The
immigration overhaul could also include a large temporary guest worker program
between the two countries.

Mexican President Vicente Fox is asking for a reform that would give the
undocumented workers "as many rights as possible."

The issue will likely take center stage next week, when Fox visits Washington as
the guest of honor at Bush's first official state dinner.

In response to complaints from other immigrant communities, Bush has said that
he would consider including people from other countries in any new immigration
policy.

White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said last month that Bush has made "no
decisions about the exact groups that may be liable for more humane and legal
treatment as a part of an expanded or improved guest worker program."

But Bond said Monday that "there is no sign that the White House plans to apply
reforms to people who originally came from Africa, the Caribbean, Asia, Eastern
Europe, or other regions or countries besides Mexico."

eunicem@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

NAACP:

www.naacp.org

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), DENNIS COOK/The Associated Press
, NAACP Chairman Julian Bond (right) joins Eliseo Medina of the Service,
Employees International Union to urge equal opportunity.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               7 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 30, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS BUOY U.S., REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigration boosts the U.S. economy by as much as $440 billion a year,
according to a new study.

The report from the University of California, Los Angeles released Wednesday
calls for granting legal status to present residents and backs a large-scale
visa program for more workers from Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean.

It comes only days before President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico are
expected to provide outlines of a new immigration policy.

The study instantly became part of the intense debate over the estimated 8.5
million illegal immigrants now in the United States. The report's release was
arranged by a pro-amnesty group, the Service Employees International Union,
which has many immigrant members.

Advocates of more restrictions for immigration disputed the new report's
conclusions.

Raul Hinojosa Ojeda, the author of the study produced by UCLA's North American
Integration and Development Center, said at a briefing here that illegal workers
expand the U.S. economy because they provide needed labor and pay taxes but are
not entitled to many government services. He urged granting broad amnesty to all
nationalities, giving legal status and workers' rights, which he said would
result in increasing the immigrants' pay by about 15 percent.

The UCLA findings clashed with those from the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that favors more restrictions and has said low-skilled foreign workers do
not benefit the U.S. economy.

Steven A. Camarota, the group's research director, said Ojeda's report
overstated the advantages of immigration in general and especially for Mexicans,
most of whom lack a high school education. Mexicans make up more than half of
the illegal population.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               8 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 2, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

NEW MIGRATION DEAL AT HEART OF FOX VISIT TO U.S.

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 1693 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Mexico's new government is optimistic that "within months" it could join the
Bush administration in announcing a proposal for a sweeping new guest worker
program and millions of work visas for undocumented immigrants in the United
States.

But as President Vicente Fox prepares for a state visit to Washington that
begins Wednesday, the traditionally divisive and complex nature of immigration
reform is dampening expectations.

Yet Mexican officials believe the two countries have a historic opportunity to
make progress on the issue because their new presidents have a close rapport,
and the nations are trying to build a trust that has never existed before.

Officials here say political reality north of the border - and a sagging U.S.
economy - is forcing Mexico to quickly sharpen arguments for a migration deal
and appeal more directly to divided members of the U.S. Congress, which would
have to approve reforms proposed by President Bush.

"For many, many years, there was a strategic mistake in Mexico, probably because
of extrapolation from our own political culture. If you have the (U.S.)
president on your side, you're done, that's it," said Enrique Berruga, Mexico's
deputy foreign minister for North American affairs and one of Fox's negotiators
who will be in Washington.

But now, he said, "we know that's not the way it works in the United States."

Berruga said that in the U.S. Congress, "by and large, there is an acceptance
that we have to do something" about illegal immigration. But consensus is still
elusive.

Following a state dinner Wednesday, Fox will get a pivotal chance to woo U.S.
lawmakers when he addresses a joint meeting of Congress on Thursday and
breakfasts with congressional leaders on Friday.

On Thursday, Fox and Bush will visit Mexican immigrants in Toledo, Ohio, a
heartland event that gives the presidents a chance to underscore that Mexican
labor is now a national U.S. habit, not just a border phenomenon. Fox will
conclude his U.S. trip in Miami on Friday at a forum on international business
in the Americas.

Fox and Bush want the United States to authorize more temporary work visas to
Mexicans in a range of industries. Those could include the service industry,
construction and activities such as meat packing as well as farm work. An
existing H-2A program for farm work issued only about 50,000 seasonal visas last
year, mostly to Mexicans.

To plead their case, Berruga said, the Mexicans are stressing dispassionate
demographic evidence that the U.S. need for foreign workers is only going to
grow as the Baby Boom generation retires.

While they understand that other ethnic groups will be lobbying to be included
in a plan for more visas, the Mexicans and their U.S. allies are arguing that
they should have special consideration because Mexico is a partner in the North
American Free Trade Agreement.

Bush and Fox, who last February appointed high-level teams to negotiate a
migration proposal, also want to "regularize" - but not necessarily grant
immediate permanent legal residency - to an estimated 3.5 million undocumented
Mexicans already in the United States.

That's not easy.

Leon Panetta, chief of staff under President Clinton and a former California
congressman, recalls years of tortuous negotiations to hammer out the 1986
Immigration Control and Reform Act, which led to permanent residency for more
than 3 million illegal immigrants of various nationalities.

Having the presidents of Mexico and the United States share a keen interest in
migration is unprecedented, Panetta said. "But you can't just assume that the
Mexican and U.S. administrations can do this in isolation, and then drop it on
Congress and Congress will wrap its arms around it."

While negotiations continue, a U.S. Embassy official here said existing
legislation could pave the way for more visas for many of the undocumented
already in the United States.

"There is more than one way to skin a cat," he said.

The Senate allowed a "second chance" registration of people who say they should
have qualified for the 1986 reform. Congress is going to consider authorizing
visas for as many as 400,000 people who are in this category.

Legislation also has been proposed that could allow tens of thousands of
undocumented immigrants - those who are family members of permanent residents or
U.S. citizens - to receive work visas while their petitions for residency are
reviewed.

If U.S. agricultural employers want to obtain temporary workers right now from
Mexico, the U.S. official said, more employers could conceivably use the H-2A
program to petition for guest workers if the process were speeded up.

A separate program, H-2B, which has a cap of 66,000, already issues temporary
visas for other industries.

At their first summit last February, Fox and Bush began forging a personal
friendship and appointed a high-level commission to address illegal immigration.
Hundreds of Mexicans have died attempting to cross deserts and rivers to avoid a
beefed-up U.S. Border Patrol.

Since Fox made history by defeating Mexico's 70-year-old ruling party last year,
his administration has also played host to a parade of U.S. legislators, labor
unions, Latino civil rights groups and U.S. employers.

To help build a case for a migration agreement, Berruga said Mexico's 45
consulates are involved in gauging U.S. opinion and gathering information on
U.S. employers who are eager to benefit from a comprehensive guest worker
program.

Congressional observers say that if Fox and Bush are to succeed in crafting a
proposal soon - during 2002 - they need to work harder on Capitol Hill.

Many Republicans have already said they're staunchly against granting any form
of legal residency to undocumented immigrants already in the United States. Key
Democrats have said they won't back an expanded guest worker program that
doesn't include an option to accumulate points toward legal residency.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., who has been deeply involved in immigration reforms, is
among the many who say they won't back a special deal just for Mexicans.

"He thinks that's not the way we do things in this country. It would harken back
to the days of 'no Irish need apply,' " said Caren Benjamin, Graham's press
secretary.

The Mexicans are coy about how hard they are pushing for legal residency
options. They say they want as "many rights as possible, as quickly as possible"
for the undocumented, but what that means is unclear.

To match future guest workers with jobs, the United States and Mexico could
together devise a data bank listing labor shortages and needs, Berruga
suggested.

But neither country would accomplish much by trying to start a guest worker
program without addressing illegal immigrants already in the United States,
Berruga said.

"Do you think these people are going to go back to Mexico to enroll in a
temporary workers program? No way," he said.

Major U.S.-Mexico issues

Illegal immigration

Fox and Bush are negotiating toward what could be the biggest U.S. immigration
reform since 1986: 'legalization'

- Both want to 'legalize' millions of undocumented Mexicans already in U.S. to
reduce illegal immigration.

- Both also want a program to admit 'guest workers' on temporary visas within a
year.

- Mexico pledges to investigate smugglers more vigorously and concentrate
investment on areas with high poverty and migration.

Drug trafficking

Both Bush and Fox agree more must be done to stop the flow of narcotics from
Mexico.

- Up to 70 percent of U.S.-bound cocaine enters through Mexico, along with
heroin, marijuana and chemicals for methamphetamines.

- The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration says distrust of Mexican police is
still strong, but cooperation with the Fox administration led to arrests of
Yucatan Gov. Mario Villanueva and another suspected trafficker. The U.S. wants
to extradite both. Still at large are the Tijuana-based Arellano Felix
traffickers, one of whom is on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list.

Commerce

The U.S. and Mexico have stronger economic bonds than ever before.

- Mexico is now the United States' second-largest trading partner, after Canada.

- Mexico is the world's eighth largest exporter, representing 46 percent of all
exports from Latin American countries.

- Mexico has lost 400,000 jobs between January and June as an effect of the U.S.
economic slump. Fox had promised 7 percent growth for the year, but April-June
growth was zero.

NAFTA conflicts include:

- Congress continues to resist allowing in Mexican trucks, arguing they're
unsafe.

- U.S. sugar producers are fighting to maintain their subsidies, but Mexican
producers, who haven't been paid by mills in months, say they are getting wiped
out because the U.S. is unfairly limiting Mexican imports.

- U.S. tomato growers argue Mexican imports are hurting them. Millions of
Mexican corn farmers argue they're getting poorer because of U.S. imports.

Energy

Fox and Bush have raised the idea of a North American energy network that
involves the U.S., Mexico and Canada.

- Mexico is the world's third largest oil producer and sells 79 percent of its
crude oil to the United States.

- New directors of Mexico's publicly owned national oil industry, Pemex, want
more than $54 billion to improve exploration of oil and natural gas, refineries
and petrochemical production. Without it, they say, the industry may collapse.

- Fox wants to open up some sectors of Mexico's oil and publicly owned
electricity industries to private capital to obtain that investment. Many
Mexicans fear this idea.

Human rights

Mexico, with no death penalty, objects to the U.S. executions of Mexican
nationals and argues many prisoners were not allowed their right to consult with
Mexican diplomats upon arrest.

- Fox continues to protest these executions.

- While indigenous rights in Mexico are more of a sore point in Europe, members
of the U.S. Congress have urged the release of a general who complained about
human rights abuses and was subsequently jailed during the past administration.

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                               9 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 28, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

A BOOST FOR SECURITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 405 words


The inability of the U.S. and Mexican governments to make substantive progress
on immigration issues has intensified the conflicted feelings Americans have
about illegal workers.

On the one hand, they are essential to the nation's economic well-being, filling
the low-wage jobs that U.S. citizens don't want. It's hard to imagine what would
happen to Florida's economy without the Mexican workers who toil in the fields,
hotel rooms, restaurants and construction industry. On the other hand, tens of
thousands of these workers are here illegally. In the aftermath of 9/11, they
can be unsettling reminders of how porous U.S. borders are. So the nation finds
itself in the contradictory position of simultaneously welcoming and disparaging
the illegals.

The debate over Mexican ID cards brings out the hypocrisy and denial in this
dysfunctional relationship. The Mexican government is promoting the cards, known
as matriculas consular, for Mexican nationals living in the United States. The
cards cost $28, and applicants must show a Mexican birth certificate and a
second form of ID to receive one. More than 100 cities and counties - such as
Los Angeles, Houston, Chicago, Denver and DeKalb County, Georgia - have
recognized the cards as identification tools only. The cards do not change
immigration status or carry benefits, but they are popular for people who want
to open bank accounts and get utilities hooked up.

No government in Florida has recognized the card. In September, the Lake Worth
City Commission voted 3-1 against the cards. Many of the state's
Mexican-American leaders, among them state Rep. Susan Bucher, D-Lantana, are
working closely with the Mexican Consulate - a meeting took place Saturday - to
win approval from cities and counties. One of the worst arguments used against
recognition is that the cards compromise security. In fact, they do the opposite
by creating a registry of Mexican nationals who are living here. Cities that use
the cards say they encourage cooperation with law enforcement and help resolve
identity disputes.

For too long, a U.S. policy based on denial and political expediency has kept
Mexican workers in the shadows. The matricula consular is one way of bringing
this population into the light. The cards are a first step toward dealing openly
with complex migration problems that demand sensible measures to acknowledge
realities rather than ignore them.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              10 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 24, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

BORDER SECURITY FOR ALL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 408 words


Federal authorities made more arrests Monday in the deaths of 19 illegal
immigrants who suffocated last week near Victoria, Texas, in a sweltering truck
trailer.

It was one of the deadliest smuggling incidents, and political hypocrisy
contributed to the human tragedy. With often deadly consequences, the United
States continues to send a contradictory signal to people across its southern
border: If they are willing to break the law and migrate, they will find plenty
of job opportunities. Illegal migrant workers find themselves simultaneously
recruited and reviled by a nation that wants it both ways. Last year, the Border
Patrol counted 371 deaths along the Mexican border, though officials concede the
toll is higher. Most of the victims would have been welcomed somewhere in the
United States by an employer with a low-wage job opening.

The first months of the Bush administration raised the hope that the two
governments might create a sensible guest-worker program to allow migrants to
cross legally, work, and then return home. Talks between President Bush and
Mexican President Vicente Fox seemed promising. But the climate changed with the
9/11 attacks and the subsequent call for tighter border controls. What both
nations really need are smarter border controls that acknowledge the economic
relationship between the two. Without Mexican labor, the U.S. agriculture,
construction and service industries cannot sustain themselves.

Improved computer systems make tracking migrants more efficient than before. The
Mexican government's ID cards, called matriculas consular, could be useful in
monitoring those who enter the country. The technology exists to craft a
guest-worker program that is enforceable. A legal route between the U.S. and
Mexico would enhance homeland security by helping to put smugglers out of
business by allowing authorities to focus on the border crossers who are coming
to cause trouble. Employers and workers would benefit from a system that allows
them to play by the rules, rather than circumvent them.

The dozens of migrants packed into the Texas trailer were a small portion of the
large population of Mexican nationals who live and work in the shadows within
the United States. The government's approach is to try to stop them from coming,
then ignore them after they get here. Ignoring 19 bodies is impossible. Tragedy
is the worst reminder of how irrational U.S. border policy has become.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              11 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 30, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

GUEST WORKER BILLS READY - IF CONGRESS IS WILLING

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 420 words


The 9/11 attacks halted efforts to create a guest worker program that could
overhaul the nation's contradictory approach to immigration. Enough time has
passed that Congress can finish the work.

On one hand, Americans decry the increasing numbers of illegal immigrants and
want more border control. But Americans also want a steady supply of cheap labor
to fill unwanted jobs and keep the economy expanding. The great political
charade has been to act as if the country can have it both ways.

With the election of Mexico President Vicente Fox three years ago, the United
States has a willing, progressive partner to negotiate new policy for
controlling the border where most illegals enter. Congressional reformers only
recently have revived discussion of guest worker proposals, which have
languished since 9/11. Members of both parties are sponsoring bills with
variations on the same themes.

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, has a plan that would issue immigrants blue cards,
enabling them to work here legally. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., wants to create
two visa programs, one for undocumented workers already here and another for
workers who wish to come. Both would offer an incremental approach to obtaining
green cards.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., along with Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and Larry
Craig, R-Idaho, are proposing a bill to allow undocumented workers to gain
temporary residency after they work 575 hours or 100 days during a 12-month
period. The idea is to transform illegal workers into legal ones and identify a
largely invisible population. Under Sen. Graham's plan, a worker could qualify
for permanent residency for himself and his family over six years of regular
employment.

It's easy to find support for some guest worker program on all the many sides of
the immigration issue. The problem is finding any two sides that agree on the
terms. Past negotiations have foundered when immigrant advocates complained
about codifying workers' abuses, or when business complained about excessive
costs. The government's questionable ability to enforce and manage a plan
worries supporters of restrictive immigration policy.

All the current proposals come with imperfections, yet each at least attempts to
deal forthrightly with problems lawmakers have ignored for decades. With
hundreds of migrants dying in the desert each year, providing a legal route for
workers the nation needs carries a moral urgency. Congress has enough ideas
about guest workers to create a program that can work.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              12 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 11, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS GRANTED AMNESTY RAP BUSH PLAN

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1278 words


On a dark night in 1980, Guatemalan Maria Mendez scrambled across the Mexican
border into the United States, her infant son strapped to her back in her
traditional Mayan shawl.

Today, she and her husband own a three-bedroom house in Lake Worth, a daughter
attends college, her two teenage sons do well in school, and after years of
working for others - mostly in sweatshops - she is starting her own take-out
food business.

In between, a decisive moment arrived that made her progress possible: the U.S.
immigration amnesty of 1986 that allowed the Mendezes and 1.2 million others to
become legal residents.

"You can't make the advances we have made without becoming legal and getting
that stability," says Mendez, 43. "Without that, you don't get paid as much, you
can't buy a house, you can't plan the future."

Wednesday, President Bush proposed a new immigration program to process millions
of undocumented workers now in the United States. But Mendez, other Floridians
who benefited from the 1986 Reagan administration measure and advocates for
migrant workers see problems with the Bush plan, both in its spirit and in the
scant details that have emerged.

The president's proposal would allow undocumented workers to apply for
three-year "temporary worker" permits, which might be renewed but which would
not lead to residency. In fact, Bush assured his listeners this was not 1986
redux.

"I oppose amnesty, placing undocumented workers on the automatic path to
citizenship," Bush insisted. "Granting amnesty encourages the violation of our
laws and perpetuates illegal immigration."

Bush's words betrayed a political reality in this election year: "Amnesty" has
become a dirty word among members of the president's conservative base who are
insisting on greatly reduced immigration. In fact, many Republicans oppose
Bush's work permit plan, insisting it rewards people who crossed the border
illegally. They do so even while other loyal Republicans, like many Florida
citrus and vegetable growers, need the workers.

But some Floridians, those who were recipients of the 1986 amnesty, disliked
Bush's words for a different reason. They say his speech tainted the Reagan
amnesty program, which was good for them, good for the United States and might
be good again. To them, amnesty is not a dirty word.

Maria Vega, 42, born in Tamaulipas, Mexico, and now of Immokalee, accepted the
amnesty along with her parents and nine siblings. After almost 15 years as a
farm worker, she took English classes and other instruction and is now a social
worker - counseling farm workers.

"I don't think President Bush should criticize amnesty," she said. "None of my
brothers or sisters are on welfare. We and other people who accepted it are
hard-working people who pay taxes, and we are supporting our families."

Jose Fernandez, an immigration specialist for Catholic Charities in Hillsborough
County, agreed.

"From what I've seen, most of the people who took the amnesty in 1986 have
become proactive people, getting better jobs, paying taxes and many of them
buying homes," he said. "I'm sure some of the children have gone into the
military, and lately they are also taking greater interest in higher education.
They have integrated into the American way. The amnesty worked."

A story of success

Maria Mendez says she is a classic case. After arriving in Florida in 1981 as an
undocumented migrant, she spent two years doing the back-breaking work of
picking tomatoes and chiles in the fields around Loxahatchee.

"I went to work at 5 a.m., most times didn't get back until about 6 p.m., and I
took home about $115 per week," she says.

Mendez and her husband, Juan, worked their way up. After holding other jobs,
Juan eventually became a line chef at the Pancho Villa Mexican restaurant, and
Maria worked in a West Palm Beach sweatshop making apparel for Wal-Mart and
Kmart. She also took sewing home.

"I worked from 6 a.m. sometimes until 11 p.m. at night, with time off to cook
meals and take care of the kids," says Maria Mendez, who now has four children.
"But I made $500 per week, and my husband made as much. . . . Yes, that was very
good."

In 1986, the Mendezes applied for amnesty and were accepted. They say it was the
amnesty that allowed them not just to advance economically, but also to make
equally important changes in the quality of their family life. Juan Mendez ended
up as a manager for a construction firm in Palm Beach County. Now legal, the
Mendezes became more involved in their children's schools. They bought a house
in 1993.

"We couldn't have done that if we weren't residents," she says, insisting no one
would have given them a mortgage.

Mendez says given her experience, one particular aspect of the Bush plan worries
her: According to briefings by administration officials last week, "guest
workers" could bring their families if they made enough money to support them.

"But then what will happen after three years?" she asks. "How can you bring
children here, start to educate them here and then send them back. The children
will suffer. If they bring their families, they need the opportunity to stay."

Some fled to save their lives

Fidencio Esquivel, 44, originally of Zacatecas, Mexico - another amnesty
recipient - also has doubts. Esquivel, now of Fort Pierce, spent three days
crossing the California desert in 1981.

"I entered this country running," he says. He has continued to hustle ever since
and has improved his life. He started in landscaping, making $120 for 40 hours.
He accepted the amnesty of 1986, and today he earns $20 per hour pouring
concrete foundations for houses. He owns his own home, has a son in college and
became a U.S. citizen in 2001. He says he will vote in November and is not
impressed by the Bush plan.

"I think Bush is trying to confuse people because it sounds backward to me," he
says. "Why would you say to people who are hard workers, 'We don't want you to
stay. We don't want you to buy homes, to invest in this country?'

"These people are going to be here anyway because there are jobs here for them,"
he says.

Esquivel says he understands that the 8 million to 12 million undocumented
people thought to be in the United States can't all receive amnesty.

"Not all of them will want to stay," he figures, "but some will want to and they
would make good citizens. Maybe they could offer 2 million a chance to stay
here. There is work for them."

Migrant advocates say the granting of the 1986 amnesty did not spur illegal
immigration as the president claimed last week.

"People come because the people who came before found work here, not because of
an amnesty," says Rob Williams, an attorney at the Migrant Farmworker Justice
Project in Tallahassee. "At the point they come, they're not worried about legal
status, they're worried about eating."

Or sometimes, it is a matter of saving their lives.

Felipe Ixot, 54, of Quetzaltenango, Guatemala, is a legal resident of the United
States due to another kind of amnesty. He and other Central Americans received
the right to stay in the U.S. during the 1990s because they were fleeing
political persecution. In Guatemala, some 200,000 people died during the civil
war, mostly Mayan Indians like Ixot.

"What I don't understand is why they call it amnesty," he said during an
interview in Lake Worth. "Amnesty is for criminals. We are not criminals. We
came here either because we were running for our lives or because we wanted to
eat. Those are not crimes. We are good people."

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

PalmBeachPost.com

MODERN DAY SLAVERY: See The Post's special report on migrant workers

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W); 1. (C) DAMON HIGGINS/Staff Photographer 'What I don't
understand is why they call it amnesty. . . . We are not criminals,' says Felipe
Ixot, who came here from Guatemala.  2. (B&W) 'You can't make the advances we
have made without becoming legal and getting that stability.' MARIA MENDEZ
Guatemalan immigrant, living in Lake Worth, who is starting her own take-out
food business (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              13 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 16, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

ENFORCEMENT NEEDED TO COMPLETE IMMIGRANT PLAN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 231 words


Regarding the Jan. 7 article "Bush: Amnesty for illegal workers": Although the
president's plan is a compassionate answer to the reality of 8 million to 11
million undocumented aliens, I believe Mr. Bush's plan is only half of the
solution.

It does not provide measures to stop the "illegal flow" of immigration. In order
to be effective, the plan needs to be backed up by far stronger enforcement of
our borders. Sustained high immigration levels from south of the border will
continue to pose economic, labor, security and criminal threats to the United
States, unless American and Mexican leaders find ways to limit it. Most
immigrants come to America to work; others, because they truly want to become
U.S. citizens. Others come here merely for the "free" benefits our social
systems provide that are not available to them in their home countries. These
immigrants aren't interested in enriching American society, but rather taking
what they can from it.

When my parents came to America, they did so because they wanted to share in its
promise. They came here with the thought of learning English and assimilating
into our culture. Integration was a privilege. That is no longer the case. The
signal many are getting is, if you can make it over the border, citizenship is a
right to be granted and there is no need to become an "American."

LARRY FAUCI

Riviera Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              14 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 18, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

SOLVE MIGRANT PUZZLE: THEY'RE ILLEGAL, BUT VITAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 529 words


Floridians opposed to improving the treatment of illegal immigrants have not
considered what the state would be like without them.

Citrus groves and produce farms would shut down and lose their harvests. Roofers
and landscapers couldn't make it to the job site. Construction projects would
stop. Hotel rooms would go uncleaned, and restaurant tables would go uncleared.
Opponents of reform are correct that illegal immigrants seeking work have broken
the law to get here. But if the government deported them all tomorrow, the
state's economy would be in severe recession by the weekend.

The reality is that Florida can't go to work in the morning without immigrant
labor, and most of it is illegal. The state's agriculture, construction and
service industries depend on foreign workers to fill the menial jobs Americans
will not do.

Election-year politics and a tragic accident have heightened public awareness
and energized movements for legislative reform. Gov. Bush has proposed a
worthwhile if limited farmworker bill that would strengthen restrictions on
subcontractors and require disclosures about pesticide use. The Department of
Business and Professional Regulation has responded in recent weeks by stepping
up inspection of groves and farms. Gov. Bush also has supported a proposal that
would allow illegal immigrants to obtain restricted driver licenses after
extensive background checks. Two bills in the Legislature would enable children
of migrants to pay in-state tuition at Florida colleges and make them eligible
for state and federal scholarship money.

The deaths of nine migrant workers in a rollover crash west of Fort Pierce this
month has brought calls for tougher safety inspection for vans and seat-belt
requirements. The crash also revealed a discriminatory and unconstitutional
inequity in the workers compensation law: Families of Canadian workers can
receive $150,000 in death benefits, but Mexican workers are entitled to only
$75,000. For the first time in many years, legislators at least may vote on some
significant reforms for migrant workers.

Last week, Gov. Bush urged Florida Hispanics to reelect his brother, saying
President Bush has done more to boost Latinos than any other president.
Hispanic-Americans are the fastest-growing voting group, and they are
concentrated in many of the swing states. In January, President Bush surprised
many in his own party by proposing a guest-worker program that would allow
illegal immigrants to apply for visas and work here legally. But his proposal
was a poor imitation of the AgJOBS Act that Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., was
sponsoring in the Senate. Sen. Graham's bill is a thoughtful blueprint with
precise details and attainable standards that are fair for both immigrant
workers and employers.

Action at the federal level remains critical to advancing reforms within the
state. Immigration is the province of the U.S. government, and even willing
Tallahassee lawmakers can reform only so much. Until Washington finds a way to
allow illegal workers some sort of legal status, a population essential to
Florida's progress will labor in a netherworld of abuse and neglect.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERY

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              15 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 28, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS HARM ECONOMY; SO WOULD A TUITION SUBSIDY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 215 words


In her zeal to explain why the children of immigrants deserve a
taxpayer-financed college education, the reporter who wrote "For migrant kids,
college a dream" (April 12) falsifies the economic truth. While many immigrants
possess exemplary work ethics and are nice people, distorting the truth over
mass immigration is unconscionable.

The reporter would have us believe that alien farmworkers toil in fields where
"American citizens won't." She must mean those jobs that pay below the fair
market rate. It is simple economics that any job will be filled if the wage is
high enough. What the article doesn't mention is that immigrant and illegal
immigrant labor drops the wage rate by between 3 percent and 4 percent for every
10 percent increase in the alien labor pool, according to a June 2003 study for
the National Bureau of Economic Research by Harvard's George J. Borjas. Now,
that is a statistic worth reporting, and one that surely would help to explain
why alien labor dominates agricultural field work.

The reporter further biases her article by suggesting that out-of-state tuition
fees "prohibit" aliens from attending state colleges. Not so; rather, the
students just will need to pay more, the same as generations before them.

JUSTIN TROXELL

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              16 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 20, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IS MOMENT FINALLY RIPE FOR FARM LABOR REFORM?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 491 words


Years of bipartisan negotiation soon could bring to the U.S. Senate floor a bill
that would reform dramatically the nation's dysfunctional approach to immigrant
workers.

More than 60 senators now support AgJOBS - the Agricultural Job Opportunity,
Benefits and Security Act - and expect the measure to come to a vote this month
as an amendment to the defense authorization bill. More than any other industry,
agriculture is dependent on an undocumented, largely migrant work force. At
least 50 percent and perhaps as many as 75 percent of all farmworkers are
illegal immigrants, evidence of a broken system that fosters abuse and confounds
efforts to maintain a reliable source of labor. Florida agriculture relies on a
migrant force of more than 300,000 laborers, most of whom are Mexican and
undocumented.

AgJOBS would replace the hypocrisy and denial of the current approach with a
clear plan that offers workers real incentives to play by a reasonable set of
rules. Instead of excluding immigrants from the system, AgJOBS gives them reason
to participate. The bill does not offer amnesty for illegal workers, but it does
put them on an attainable, incremental path toward legal status.

The congressional plan is far superior to the program President Bush proposed in
January. AgJOBS, for example, spells out specific standards for attaining
permanent status: A worker who completes 2,060 hours of agricultural labor, or
360 workdays, during a six-year period is eligible. The White House has offered
only vague concepts of what a theoretical plan might be.

AgJOBS also has provisions aimed at preventing many of the abuses detailed in
The Post's recent series, "Modern-Day Slavery." Employers must adhere to
housing, transportation and wage requirements. Immigrant and migrant workers
would gain a measure of autonomy with their legal status and not be left
beholden to employers. The legislation would deal a blow to smugglers and
disreputable contractors who have preyed upon field laborers for decades.

Other guest-worker proposals in Congress would expand AgJOBS provisions to other
industries and help move the nation's 8 million to 12 million illegal immigrants
into the light of legitimacy. Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, who introduced the
bill, correctly argues that it would enhance homeland security by requiring
background checks and registration with government. Fair play is rewarded with
fair treatment.

Cosponsoring the bill with the conservative Sen. Craig is Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., is also a vocal proponent. Mexican President
Vicente Fox believes the guest-worker plan is essential to controlling border
migration and will help the economies of both nations. Farmworker advocates
think this is the most promising bill in years, and dozens of agricultural
groups - such as the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association - also are
supporters. It's time for the Senate to add its approval.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              17 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 28, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

AGJOBS BILL PROVISION EQUIVALENT TO AMNESTY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 141 words


The Post's editorial "Is moment finally ripe for farm labor reform?" (June 20)
contains a fundamental error. The editorial states, "The bill does not offer
amnesty for illegal workers," which is false. In fact, the AgJOBS bill is an
amnesty because the bill nullifies the requirement that illegal aliens return to
their homeland. How can that not be an amnesty?

Because of the amnesty provision, the AgJOBS bill promotes illegal immigration.
The massive Immigration Reform and Control Act amnesty of 1986 was touted as
being the last amnesty in the United States. However, since then, the U.S.
illegal alien population has exploded to an estimated 9 million to 13 million,
with an estimated 420,000 illegal aliens in Florida. Historical statistics prove
that amnesties increase illegal immigration.

DAVID W. CAULKETT

Pompano Beach

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              18 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 9, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

DEUTSCH FIRM ON REJECTING ILLEGALS

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY MILLER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 558 words


Saying illegal immigrants should be returned home "by plane or by boat,"
Democratic U.S. Senate contender Peter Deutsch opposes giving any kind of legal
status to undocumented farmworkers.

Deutsch, a Broward County congressman since 1992, was responding to a question
Wednesday from The Palm Beach Post editorial board about the Agricultural Job
Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act, a bill making its way through the Senate
that spells out a process for illegal farmworkers to attain legal status.

He said he is against creating levels of "sub-citizenship" and believes the
issue of illegal immigrants is an enforcement problem that the Department of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement should be held accountable for.

"Sending people back is the law," Deutsch said. "It's a discouraging thing to
say we should encourage illegal activity."

His comments drew fire Thursday from growers and advocates of the undocumented
laborers they employ.

Walter Kates, labor relations director for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable
Association, said it is unrealistic to think that all of the illegal farmworkers
in this country can be rounded up and sent home.

He said giving migrant workers a way to attain legal status, but not
citizenship, will help stop abuses in the industry and allow growers to have a
more reliable source of labor.

Farmworker advocates agreed.

"Even conservative Republicans are saying we can't, and we aren't, going to
deport the millions of undocumented workers who are here," said Bruce Goldstein,
co-executive director of the Washington-based Farmworker Justice Fund Inc. "It's
unrealistic, a pipe dream and a way of avoiding immigration issues."

Florida agriculture, a $7 billion-a-year industry, relies on an estimated
300,000 undocumented farmworkers.

"We have in agriculture a workforce estimated to be 70 percent undocumented,"
Craig Regelbrugge of the American Nursery & Landscape Association, said in
support of the Senate bill in December. "That's problem number one: We have an
illegal workforce that is feeding our nation."

The bill, introduced by Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., was negotiated over several years by representatives of both the
farmworkers and growers and has bipartisan support in the Senate.

That means it also has bipartisan opposition.

"This whole integration issue is not Republican or Democrat. We have people from
both sides in support of the bill and against it," said Kates, who said he was
disappointed in Deutsch's position on illegal farmworkers, but not surprised.

Deutsch's major opponents in the Democratic primary to replace Sen. Bob Graham -
former Florida Education Commissioner Betty Castor and Miami-Dade County Mayor
Alex Penelas - both support the farmworker bill.

"I'm in favor of having a strong immigration policy but the flip side of that is
we've been inconsistent in how we enforce it," Penelas said. "The reality is
these people are here now and they are working and this is a way to incorporate
them into society."

The bill targets only agricultural workers, guaranteeing them wage rates and
giving them permanent residency if they follow specific standards. For example,
a worker who completes 2,060 hours of agricultural labor, or 360 workdays,
during a six-year period is eligible.

kimberly_miller@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              19 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             September 14, 2000, Thursday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MARTIN SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES TRACK DOWN 21 HAITIAN REFUGEES AFTER CALL TO 911

BYLINE: William M. Hartnett, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 226 words


Martin County sheriff's deputies took 21 Haitian refugees into custody Wednesday
morning after the illegal immigrants came ashore in the area between Sandsprit
Park and Rocky Point.

A woman who lives in the area called 911 after hearing several people speaking a
foreign language outside her window about 6:30 a.m., said Martin County
sheriff's spokeswoman Jenell Atlas.

A helicopter was called in to help deputies track down the scattered Haitians.

Atlas said 16 male and five female Haitians eventually were found within about
two hours after the 911 call. Though there was no sign of the boat that dropped
them off, Atlas said everyone who came ashore on Wednesday is thought to be in
custody.

The refugees were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
transport to Krome Detention Center west of Miami. Border Patrol officials have
attributed the recent increase in the number of refugees fleeing to South
Florida in smuggling boats in part to flat seas caused by unusually calm summer
weather.

A reported crackdown by Bahamian police on Haitian refugees there also has
contributed to the recent wave of illegal immigrants trying to reach U.S.
shores.

Immigration officials say some smugglers get $ 2,000 or more for each person
they smuggle to South Florida from the Bahamas.

william_hartnett@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              20 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 17, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

INS ROUNDUP LINKS 14 TO HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES

BYLINE: Colleen Mastony, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer SOUTH FL IMMIGRATION
OFFICIAL MULTIPLE REFUGEE HISTORYVIOLENCE CRIME

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 476 words


In a sweep through South Florida Wednesday and Thursday, Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials netted 14 illegal immigrants who had been
involved in political torture, murder and kidnapping before their arrival in the
United States.

Believed to be the largest sting targeting human rights violators by the INS,
"Operation Home Run" sought 25 individuals from Haiti, Peru, Honduras and Angola
who were living illegally in South Florida.

Their violations had come to light during immigration proceedings.

In some cases, they were discovered through the testimony of offenders
themselves, said INS Special Investigations Section Chief William West.

One man had admitted to blowing up buildings in his native country, knowing
there were civilians inside, West said.

U.S. immigration courts declared the immigrants human rights persecutors under
the International Torture Convention, said Patricia Mancha, an INS spokeswoman.

"Many of them have admitted to committing atrocities," Mancha said. "They have
been deemed persecutors . . . and they were in violation of INS law."

The immigrants are being held at the Krome Detention Center in south Miami-Dade
County, pending deportation to their countries of origin, Mancha said.

"Right now there is no specific removal charge for being a human rights
persecutor," West said.

"There are bills before Congress to make human rights persecution grounds for
removal, but these individuals came here surreptitiously by crossing the border
or a larger group entered through tourist visas and just stayed."

Five of the 14 arrested were in Palm Beach County - one in Delray Beach, two in
Lake Worth and two in Boca Raton; two were in Broward County; six were in
Miami-Dade County; and one was in St. Lucie County.

Erick Cazeau, 24, of 519 N. 18th St., Fort Pierce, had been working as a a fruit
picker, according to a St. Lucie County sheriff's report.

He was arrested at his home at 5:30 a.m. Wednesday.

Details on his prior history were not available Thursday.

Local addresses were not available for the other individuals, who included:
Gilnor Castor, 40; Buteau Avril, 49; Jean Bruno Joseph, 41; Windzor Edouard, 41;
Guerlaine Fleurvil Georges, 30; Augustin Pierre, 45 - all who had final orders
of deportation.

Eight others arrested and held pending the outcome of an appeal are: Simao M.
Sebastiao, 31; Rafael Alberto Romero, 54; Michelet Charles, 31; Joanis Jackson,
42; Erick Cazeau, 24; Maxo Provence, 30; Yolandus Yolande, 49; Fanfan Baptiste,
26.

"One former official of a certain military regime admitted that he himself had
tortured upwards of 300 prisoners or he would turn them over to others for
execution," West said.

"Unfortunately, he's one of the ones that we didn't get."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

colleen_mastony@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran MSL.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              21 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 8, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

LAW MIGHT HELP THOSE SEEKING A GREEN CARD

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 813 words


A new immigration law is giving hope to thousands of undocumented immigrants
seeking a green card, including a 44-year-old woman who attended a seminar
Saturday to see if the golden gates would open for her.

"I don't want to be living like this anymore," said the woman, who came from the
Bahamas on a tourist visa 10 years ago and never left. She wants to buy a house,
but is fearful that the mortgage application would expose her illegal status.

The Lake Worth woman heard that the new law may help her. Or maybe not.

"Many people believe the law is an amnesty and it's not," said immigrant
attorney Roland Anthony Ulloa, who held the free seminar at a cultural center in
suburban Lake Worth. "Many people don't qualify."

The same scene plays out at the Guatemalan Mayan Center, where director Lucio
Perez-Reynozo takes dozens of calls about the "amnesty law."

He blames unscrupulous notarios, notary publics who double as immigration
advisers, for spreading false hope to collect money for filling out paperwork
that has no prayer of approval.

The new law, called the LIFE Act, could help up to 500,000 immigrants who
entered the country illegally or overstayed visas but have sons or daughters or
spouses who are legal residents. Palm Beach County's illegal immigrants tend to
be single or not been here long enough to have their U.S.-born kids sponsor them
for green cards.

"There are all sorts of innuendo and rumor that this is a utopia for anyone in
the country illegally," said West Palm Beach immigration attorney Al Zucaro. "In
fact, it has a very limited application for a limited number of people."

While not amnesty, the LIFE act opens doors to illegal immigrants by allowing
them to stay in the country if they qualify for either a family or job-related
visa. Since 1998, those immigrants had to leave and apply in their native
countries, a tripwire since immigrants who come in without visas can be barred
from returning to the U.S. from three to 10 years.

The Bahamian woman at Saturday's seminar believes she might qualify as a
sponsored worker but doesn't know if she can finish the paperwork in time.

The LIFE doors remain open until April 30, the deadline for applying for a visa
petition based on family or work connections.

"Unfortunately, they didn't give us much time," said Shane O'Meara, an attorney
with the Legal Aid Society's Immigration Advocacy Project. He said his West Palm
Beach office is filing about five a week.

Applicants must also be able to prove they were in the United States on Dec. 21,
the day the bill was signed into law by former President Clinton.

The law gives preference to U.S. citizens whose relatives need green cards.
Citizens can sponsor married children or brothers and sisters. Legal residents
without citizenship can sponsor only unmarried children and no brothers or
sisters. Either group can petition for a spouse.

The best bet for undocumented immigrants without eligible family ties may be an
employer sponsoring them for a green card, said Lantana immigration attorney
Wayne Levine. Immigrants can qualify for job-related green cards if an employer
proves no Americans are available to fill the jobs.

"People have the misconception that they would have to be Albert Einstein with a
Ph.D. to qualify, but that's not the case," Levine said. "We've done labor
certifications for welders, auto mechanics, diesel mechanics and cooks in ethnic
restaurants."

Those getting family sponsors may have a long wait at the golden gates.

Guatemalans and Hondurans who filed a visa petition in 1996 are just now
permitted to file for a green card. The backlog for Mexicans goes back to 1994
before a visa number is assigned allowing them to seek residency. For Chinese
and and Indians it's even longer.

"Sometimes, there is a four- or five-year wait for available visas," said Eyleen
Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"Visa numbers will jump months forward, or move a day and sometimes they will go
backwards."

The law allows for temporary papers for those who filed a visa petition more
than three years ago and are still waiting for a visa number. They will get a
"V" visa protecting against deportation and allowing them to work while they
wait.

For the others, besides the wait, the process is costly. The visa petition, to
be filed by April 30, costs $110. When a visa number is available, the immigrant
pays $1,000 as a fine for being in the county illegally.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

Who qualifies?

- Immigrants who have spouses or children over 21 who are legal residents or
U.S. citizens.

- Immigrants sponsored by an employer who can show an American cannot be found
to fill the job.

- Immigrants must prove they were in the United States on Dec. 21, the day the
bill was signed by former President Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              22 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 16, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

MOVE TO LEGALIZE IMMIGRANTS SPARKS BACKLASH

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration's move to relax immigration rules for Mexicans, and
possibly others, got off to a fast start.

It won backing from a powerful alliance of businesses - seeking a larger,
cheaper work force - and labor unions, in search of more members. The U.S.
Catholic Conference joined the effort by lobbying for broad amnesty for
undocumented workers.

But a month later, the Bush plan is running into resistance.

A new estimate this week by the nonpartisan Urban Institute that there may be as
many as 8.5 million illegal immigrants in the country - 2 million more than
previously thought - raises the stakes for Congress and for the nation's
heartland, where resistance to immigration was already mounting.

The administration's detailed proposal, originally scheduled for release in
September, already has been delayed, perhaps for months.

Officials describe it as a temporary worker program to allow more Mexicans to
work legally in the United States. Although Bush has ruled out "blanket amnesty"
for illegal immigrants already living in the country, his chief of staff, Andrew
Card, said in a Fox News Channel interview that workers who are matched up with
employers would be able to get a "green card," granting permanent residency.

Among supporters of the Bush effort, some of the early hopes for quick action
are fading.

"I'm a little bit afraid that if they don't have something concrete fairly soon,
they'll lose the momentum on this," said Theresa Brown, manager of labor and
immigration policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "And momentum is a very big
thing in D.C."

So far, even among the president's fellow Texas Republicans, only Rep. Henry
Bonilla has given the Bush immigration plan an enthusiastic endorsement. Others
have taken a wait-and-see position and ruled out amnesty for people who have
entered the country illegally. That would be "rewarding lawlessness," Sen. Phil
Gramm has said.

Democrats, on the other hand, say the White House is not going far enough. Sen.
Tom Daschle, D-S.D., wants a legalization process for illegal residents of all
nationalities. "Immigrants are fueling our economy and enriching our society,"
he said earlier this month.

The debate is already moving beyond Washington and out into the countryside,
which has been altered by the arrival of more than 13 million immigrants over
the past 10 years, according to new U.S. Census figures. Almost one in every 10
residents is now foreign-born.

Moreover, the newcomers are moving beyond traditional gateway states such as
Florida, New York, California and Texas. They have begun to bring major cultural
shifts to the South, especially Georgia and the Carolinas, and to the
once-homogeneous farm belt of the Midwest.

Construction firms, fast-food restaurants, poultry processors and meatpacking
plants have benefited from the supply of foreign workers. But in some
communities, they have spurred a growing network of activists who seek more
restrictions on immigration:

- In once nearly all-white Iowa, Gov. Tom Vilsack recently backpedaled on his
two-year drive to recruit immigrants to make up for his state's labor shortage.
Some Iowans have complained that schools are overburdened by non-English
speaking students, and others say the unskilled workers hold wages down. In a
sign of the resistance, the Des Moines Register reported last month that a float
in a Mason City parade carried the words: "In your 20s? Immigration will double
U.S. population in your lifetime."

- In Rogers, Ark., where the Latino population swelled to 20 percent over the
last decade, voters threw out a mayor who had welcomed the newcomers and
replaced him with one pledging to crack down on illegal immigrants. After the
city's police allegedly began stopping drivers who looked Latino, the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Education Fund filed a lawsuit charging
discrimination.

- In several states, activists are forming grass-roots groups, such as the
Georgia Coalition for Immigration Reform, Floridians for a Sustainable
Population, and Carolinians for Immigration Reform. All seek restraints on
immigration.

- And pro-restriction groups, which had been relatively quiet during the
high-employment boom era of the 1990s, are mobilizing for the coming national
debate over immigration. The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR)
is planning a major public relations campaign, said Associate Director David
Ray.

At the Center for Immigration Studies, a private group that favors restrictions,
chief researcher Steven Camarota has watched business and labor get behind the
new push for what he calls "mass immigration."

"There's really only one group lined up against it, and that's the American
people," Camarota said, citing polls such as a March survey by the Gallup Poll,
which indicated that only 10 percent of the public favors increasing
immigration, while 41 percent favors keeping the present level and 43 percent
would reduce it.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., one of the sharpest critics of large-scale
immigration, said this week that he has little support in Congress for a bill to
impose a five-year moratorium om immigration.

But Tancredo, who has emerged as a visible spokesman for skeptics of immigration
policies, is suddenly receiving calls from all over the country. He said they
are running at least 10-to-1 in favor of his viewpoint.

juliam@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

National Immigration Forum:

www.immigrationforum.org/

Center for Immigration Studies:

www.cis.org

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              23 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 14, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGALS BUTTS AGAINST NEW RULE

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Amid stepped-up monitoring of foreigners in the United States, a little-noticed
U.S. immigration court ruling is making it harder for the government to order
many undocumented aliens out of the country.

In the past, thousands of aliens who faced deportation proceedings but failed to
appear for hearings each year had been almost routinely ordered deported.

A decision issued in October by the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals halts that
practice unless the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service can show that it
has delivered a notice of the proceedings to the alien.

Although foreign residents have been required by long-standing but unenforced
federal law to report changes of address to the government, the rule shifts the
burden of finding current addresses to the immigration service.

The results are already being felt in the Justice Department's immigration
courts, which are part of the Executive Office of Immigration Review.

In Arlington, Va., federal immigration court this week, Judge M. Christopher
Grant finished his docket and turned to the eight cases where the aliens failed
to appear.

Most of these no-shows would have been ordered deported in absentia two months
ago. But the judge ordered deportation for only one: a man from El Salvador who
had been found hidden in a truck in Arizona with 100 other undocumented aliens.
The INS showed that it had later delivered to the man a notice to appear.

In the other cases, the INS failed to satisfy the court that sending
notification by first-class mail to the last known address was enough.

"The INS must instruct the alien on the rules of the game," Grant said. He
ordered the cases against the seven other missing aliens to be closed unless the
INS could restart the process by finding the people charged and informing them
of the deportation proceedings.

Search effort could be stymied
 rich rim WEB STUFF AT BOTTOM!! WEB STUFF AT BOTTOM!! WEB STUFF AT BOTTOM!! WEB
STUFF AT BOTTOM!!


webtext>

rickc read
 NEW POLICY MAKES IT TOUGHER TO DEPORT SOME ALIENS

650&add

By JULIA MALONE

c.2001 Cox News Service

30

 The new standards could have a substantial impact on rulings in the nation's 52
immigration courts, which processed 45,589 in absentia cases in fiscal year
2000. Roughly one in every five cases was a no-show.

The new standards also could reduce the impact of an INS effort, announced last
week, to find aliens who have been ordered out of the country but who have
disappeared before they could be deported.

The immigration service has said it will enter the names of more than 300,000 of
these missing deportees into the FBI's crime database so that police officers
will be alerted to them if the officers conduct routine computer checks during
arrests, even for minor traffic offenses.

Fewer names will be added to the deportee list in the future, as courts close
the absentia cases administratively instead of issuing deportation orders.

"It bodes ill for ever finding these people," said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group that favors
more restrictions on immigration. "Now when they get stopped for a broken tail
light, their name isn't going to come up" in the computer check.

Jeanne Butterfield, lobbyist for the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
welcomed the new limits on deportations. She said the INS has been "notoriously
bad about keeping accurate address records" even when aliens notify the agency
of address changes.

Moreover, she said that the INS sometimes sends aliens a notice of a hearing for
an unspecified date and then waits years to file the the document with the
immigration court. The appeals board "rightfully says we need, in some way, to
protect the alien's right here," she said.

She said that immigration lawyers will be challenging deportation orders for
many of the 300,000 cases that the INS is turning over to the FBI. Many of the
aliens didn't realize they had been ordered deported because the notice never
reached them, she said.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              24 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 11, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

INS INVESTIGATION HINDERED BY LACK OF TRANSLATORS

BYLINE: Dani Davies, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 450 words


Operation Dragon Eyes inched on slowly Thursday as immigration officials tried
to resolve how and when 24 Chinese people illegally living and working in Palm
Beach and Broward counties arrived in this country - a process slowed by the
fact that they are using only two Mandarin interpreters.

In addition to the detainees, the yearlong investigation resulted in the arrest
of one man, 31-year-old Huang Zeng Chang, who was charged with harboring and
transporting illegal immigrants. Huang is in the custody of U.S. marshals.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials picked up nine of the illegal
immigrants Wednesday morning as they worked at the King Buffet Chinese
restaurant on Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard and another three at a nearby Congress
Avenue apartment, where it appears that a large number of people shared an
apartment, INS spokeswoman Patricia Mancha said.

A Guatemalan man also was detained in West Palm Beach.

The rest were picked up at a King Super Buffet in Lauderhill and a house in
Sunrise. Huang owns both King Buffet restaurants, according to records.

The 12 women and 13 men may be in their 20s, and at least one is 19, she said.

Both residences were filthy, Mancha said. Bunk beds were crowded into every room
of the homes, but it was unclear how many people actually lived in each.

"We don't know if they sleep in shifts or if there is more than one person in a
bed. Nobody should live that way," she said. "It was extremely dirty."

The King Buffet at 1818 Palm Beach Lakes Blvd. was shut down and deserted
Thursday. A sign taped to the front door read: "Restaurant is closed until
further notice."

No one answered the phone or the door of the three-bedroom, two-bath apartment
at the Watermarke apartment complex at 500 Congress Ave. A newly hired property
manager said he was unaware of the INS raid until late Wednesday and had never
met the occupants of the apartment.

Investigators also are trying to figure out whether the people detained were
working at the restaurants and living en masse in an effort to pay their debts
to the people who smuggled them into the country.

It's typical for illegal immigrants to be indebted to their smugglers for as
much as $65,000, Mancha said. Working for less than minimum wage, that could
take up to 10 years to pay off.

"Unfortunately, it's not just restaurants. It's all different trades:
prostitution, sweatshops," she said. "It just runs rampant."

If convicted, Huang faces up to 10 years in federal prison.

The men are held at the Krome Detention Center near Miami, and the women are at
the Turner Guilford Knight Correctional Center, also near Miami.

dani_davies@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              25 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 25, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

FIGHT TERRORISM, NOT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 725 words


New census estimates show that the number of illegal immigrants living in the
United States more than doubled during the 1990s.

About half of the 8.7 million foreigners came from Mexico, lured by the robust
economy. But arrivals from the south have declined during the past 18 months as
recession constricted the U.S. job market.

Subtract the Mexicans, and about 4.8 million undocumented immigrants remain,
most of them melding into the population after overstaying visas. Many claim
quasi-legal status as refugees seeking political asylum.

Advocates for tighter immigration policy point to the fact that at least three
of the Sept. 11 hijackers were here illegally. Advocates with a liberal lean
toward immigration point to the fact that 16 of them weren't. People on both
sides of the issue agree, however, that 8.7 million is an extraordinarily high
number and that the government must do something to manage the flow of new
arrivals.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recently entered into the computers
of the National Crime Information Center the names of 314,000 people who have
ignored deportation orders. The INS wants the foreigners flagged, so police will
know their illegal status. The deportation backlog problem is only 314,000
speeding tickets away from being solved.

The Justice Department, however, isn't about to rely on radar guns. The census
bureau estimates that about 115,000 people from the Middle East are here
illegally. Of that number, about 6,000 are young men from Arab or Muslim
countries with active Al-Qaeda cells. Attorney General John Ashcroft wants them
rounded up and deported, but the INS has no idea where they are. People who
overstay visas, it seems, are not good about keeping in touch.

Mr. Ashcroft is using profiling but doing it demographically, not necessarily
ethnically. The 6,000 are all men because women terrorists are rare. The 6,000
are young because 80-year-old terrorists are more dangerous to themselves than
the country. None of the 6,000 is from Luxembourg because Luxembourg hasn't been
a problem lately.

But even if each of the 6,000 is apprehended tomorrow, the gain against
terrorism will be dubious - more symbolic than actual. Again, as late as Sept.
10, most of the hijackers were playing by the rules.

During the weeks ahead, Congress, during Enron interludes, will consider
immigration changes. The intense political pressure to reduce the number of
undocumented immigrants and tighten borders invites another round of thoughtless
and heavy-handed lawmaking. Congress was in a similar mood after the Oklahoma
City bombing and struck back against Timothy McVeigh by targeting immigrants,
passing alleged reforms in 1996 that withstood neither social nor constitutional
challenges.

The key for true reform is to identify specific problems and specific groups of
immigrants and deal with them with equal fairness - something that the U.S., for
all its contributions to democratic principles, never quite has been able to
pull off.

Begin by acknowledging the Mexicans as a separate issue. We share the same
border and extensive cultural ties throughout the Southwest. Last summer,
President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox had constructive talks about a
guest-worker program that could provide structure for temporary economic
migration. The war against terrorism shouldn't make political casualties of
Mexican laborers.

While INS gets much of the blame for U.S. immigration failures, the State
Department has contributed mightily to the mess with poor decisions on visas
issued at overseas consular offices. Foreign-service officers must improve
background checks of the people they're sending to the U.S.

Immigrants who come for technical training in sensitive fields require extra
checking. The government should not ask Saudi Arabian flight students and
Guatemalan farm workers the same questions. Different treatment does not
constitute ethnic or racial profiling. Technology can play an important role in
clearing new arrivals and monitoring them after they're here.

Congress must strive to restore precision in definitions. People with visas are
visitors, not immigrants, and all parties have to understand the difference.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              26 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 27, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

LAWYERS GIVE VOICE TO DETAINEES AT KROME IMMIGRANTS LANGUISH AFTER CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: Paul Lomartire and Louis J. Salome, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3496 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


Hina Askari got the urgent phone call on Sept. 19: A 34-year-old Muslim jeweler
from Pakistan, an illegal immigrant, had disappeared. His family needed her
help.

Askari, an immigration attorney, was about to get a crash course in homeland
security.

First, she went to the FBI office in Miami and asked where the jeweler was. He's
being held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, she was told.

Askari drove to the INS-run Krome Service Processing Center at the edge of the
Everglades. INS said it didn't have him. She went back to the FBI office and
refused to leave until she got a straight answer.

The FBI made one phone call to get rid of her - to the INS.

The INS agent asked Askari for her driver license and Florida Bar card.

She was shaking - because she, too, is Pakistani, a naturalized U.S. citizen who
moved to this country in 1980.

He glanced at her IDs and told her to leave. She did. "As fast as I could."

"I trust the FBI. They follow the rules," the attorney says. "I'm afraid of INS.
I can be denaturalized in about five minutes."

Askari, 34, has a 6-year-old son, an American husband, a comfortable home in
Broward County - and 10 clients who are jailed immigrants in trouble as deep as
the Pakistani jeweler. She's representing them for free.

For her, law has never been about money.

It's about being called "camel jockey" in high school and having zero friends.

It's about wanting to be like the first powerful woman she saw up close, Janet
Reno, who spoke at Askari's high school and was later to become U.S. attorney
general.

It's about wanting to fight for underdogs tagged with nasty nicknames and no
chance.

Askari headed home late that September night without finding her client. He
called the next day, from Krome.

She makes it clear: She doesn't want terrorists threatening her new country. If
the Feds can show her clients are terrorists, she says, then prove it.
Otherwise, she says, don't sweep up immigrants who came to the U.S. to escape
secret police and late-night banging at the door.

"These people," she says softly, "come from a tradition of being afraid. You
can't understand that unless you are from a culture of fear."

Profiling or common sense?

Before the smoke cleared Sept. 11, Attorney General John Ashcroft gave the INS
and FBI agents their marching orders: Root out terrorists imbedded as deeply in
society as the 19 maniacs who died with valid driver licenses, ATM cards, visas
and health club memberships.

With the FBI and INS, Ashcroft launched a sweep of illegal immigrants across the
United States - about 725 people, mostly men, mostly Muslim, mostly from the
Middle East and South Asia.

Critics call it profiling. Proponents call it common sense.

"Are we being aggressive and hard-nosed?" Michael Chertoff, an assistant
attorney general, told the Senate Judiciary Committee. "You bet."

Many being picked up by the INS have visa violations that were ignored before
Sept. 11 but warrant deportation now.

"If you've overstayed a student visa, you're deportable. If you've overstayed a
visitor visa, you're deportable," says Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington.

Illegal immigrants are not protected by the Constitution, have no right to a
court-appointed lawyer and can almost always be jailed indefinitely.

So far, the sweep of South Florida has snagged immigrants teenage and
middle-age, professionals and students.

The FBI won't discuss strategy. To find that, one must dig through legal papers.

"The business of counterterrorism intelligence gathering in the United States is
akin to the construction of a mosaic," wrote Michael E. Rolince, FBI
International Terrorism Operations Section chief, in a request to deny bail Nov.
2 to an Iranian engineer jailed at Krome. "At this stage of the investigation,
the FBI is gathering and processing thousands of bits and pieces of information
that might seem innocuous at first glance.

"We must analyze all that information, however, to see if it can be fit into a
picture that will reveal how the unseen whole operates. . . . The Bureau is
approaching that task with unprecedented resources and a nationwide urgency."

Wanted: Lawyers who care

Of the more than 600 immigration lawyers in Florida, three South Florida women -
Hina Askari, Sheila Latimer and Rhonda Gelfman - are handling most of the Krome
detainee cases. Also swamped is the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

"We can't sleep at night because we're so overwhelmed and we know people need
our help," says Cheryl Little, founder of the center.

Askari agreed to represent 10 clients for free, then had to stop taking cases
after her business card was passed around by Krome inmates.

To get more legal help, Askari paid $600 for a display ad in the Florida Bar's
Sept. 14 newspaper that read: Seeking Assistance For Detained Aliens.

Of the 10 responses, she says nine were "Who do you think you are?" One lawyer
said he'd take a detainee case, maybe, if the detainee was a Christian, not a
Muslim.

Miami attorney Latimer also is in the thick of the unpopular legal work.

"It's a big round-robin," she says. "It's the worst I've seen it for a group of
people. All of sudden, they lose my files. No one knew where one of my clients
was. They're giving us bogus reasons for rejecting parole requests. They say we
haven't sufficient identification for them, but they have the original
passport."

Such a mess. "If the American people knew the extent to which people's rights
are being violated," she concludes, "they would object. I really trust the
American people. How did we become our enemy?"

Gelfman, 42, works out of Fort Lauderdale and is now juggling 11 active Krome
cases out of the 18 she has handled since Sept. 11.

She's at Krome three or four long days each week and then back in her office at
night. Her desk is piled with files and pink phone messages, many from her
clients.

"Sometimes, I feel like a psychologist or therapist because they need someone to
talk to, to vent. I have sisters calling, wives calling. They have to know they
have an attorney who cares. It gives them peace of mind and hope."

Like Askari, she says she trusts the FBI.

"If the FBI is doing their job, I have confidence in them and the system. If the
FBI has something on my guy, then fine. I accept that wholeheartedly," Gelfman
says. "If the FBI has nothing, I want them out."

Gelfman knows Hina Askari well. She gave Askari her first job after law school
and isn't surprised she's carrying 10 pro bono cases.

"She has a heart of gold," says Gelfman. "She thrives on this. Money is always
secondary. Her passion is helping people."

INS 'has more power than ever'

The Justice Department refuses to reveal basic facts about jailed immigrants -
even to lawyers.

"This is a bunker mentality," says Cheryl Little, who has worked with immigrants
for more than 20 years. INS "has more power than ever and less reason to
communicate with advocacy groups, and they're more paranoid than ever. That's a
lethal combination."

Since Sept. 11, about 725 people have been locked up, the Justice Department
says. It released that number last week in response to a Freedom of Information
Act lawsuit filed in December by groups including the American Civil Liberties
Union and American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. National immigration
rights groups estimate that the actual number of people locked up is nearly
double the official figure.

South Florida immigration lawyers in and out of Krome each day estimate that 50
of the detention center's roughly 600 inmates are post-Sept. 11 arrests.

Americans appear to support the Justice Department's tactics. A November
Newsweek opinion poll showed that 72 percent of people feel restrictions on
civil liberties to fight terrorism are "about right."

The public's acceptance of people being jailed indefinitely in a free country
scares Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the 8,000-member American
Association of Immigration Lawyers.

"If we start undermining those protections for the least of us, it starts that
slippery slope, and we're going to turn around next month and find that none of
us enjoys those protections. And then we have accomplished what the terrorists
intended - to undermine our democracy, and I don't want to see that happen."

The detainees themselves describe the FBI and INS as playing good cop, bad cop.
A friendly visit by the FBI is followed quickly by a rough arrest by INS.

"The FBI men were very nice," says a 24-year-old Pakistani who bonded out last
week after three months and seven days jailed at Krome. "They came to my
apartment to ask questions. I even made them coffee." At 8:30 the next morning,
INS agents hauled him out of his house in handcuffs.

Lawyers and detainees also say FBI and INS agents appear to be using another
traditional police tactic called burned and turned. Traditionally, after police
hook a suspect on a crime, even a minor one, they give the suspect an offer:
We'll let you walk if you become an informant.

A shortage of agents who can understand and infiltrate Middle Eastern culture
and speak the languages was a problem before Sept. 11, agrees former INS boss
Doris Meissner. "There always has been a scarcity of resources for this kind of
investigative work that would be exacerbated by the Sept. 11 workload."

Meissner left the INS commissioner's job in December 2000 and is now at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.

The Justice Department is trying to address the culture barrier with a five-page
guide to the 93 U.S. attorney offices. The manual offers tips for interviewing
people about international terrorism. One suggestion: "You should obtain all
telephone numbers used by the individual and his family or close associates."

These old-school techniques aren't working.

"I'm certain that it's very difficult to piece together a coherent picture by
talking to these detainees," Meissner says. "There is a hard core that's not
prepared to divulge anything."

After four months, the Justice Department has not announced a major arrest of
anyone tied to the Sept. 11 attack. Zacarias Moussaoui, the alleged 20th
hijacker, already was in jail on Sept. 11.

Immigration attorney Little, nationally known for her work - she's been on Oprah
- is succinct about what's happening.

"I see no end in sight," she says. "I very much want to catch terrorists, but
we're expending resources on the wrong people. This won't make our country a
safer place. We should target the people who want to do harm to the U.S."

That idea seems to be part of the Justice Department's plans.

At each of the U.S. attorney offices, including Miami, Orlando and Tallahassee,
a national security unit has been established with an immigration lawyer, INS
agent and experts in areas such as money laundering. Legislation is in the works
to add intelligence agents to each unit.

Tireless in the trenches

Hina Askari likes designer jeans and metal-tipped cowboy boots. She loves her
black Mercedes convertible. When she came to the United States in 1980,
everything she loved her strict Muslim father hated. And raising an independent
woman wasn't part of his plan.

After her father, Ali, scrambled away from political problems in Pakistan and
spent a year in the United States, he was ready to go home. Rich enough to carry
a bag of cash around Pakistan for instant kidnap payoffs, Hina's father hit it
big building homes on family-owned land in the Arabian Sea port city of Karachi.

Her family - father, mother, brother, youngest sister and grandma - returned to
Pakistan in 1981. After pleas and begging, father agreed to let his oldest
daughters - Hina (pronounced Hen-nah) and her sister Huma (pronounced Ho-ma) -
stay in Miami to live with their strict Muslim uncle, but only until they
graduated from high school.

Within two years, partly by watching Sesame Street, Hina could speak English and
was ready to skirt her strict uncle.

"I led a dual life," she recalls. "I took American clothes in a bag and changed
at school." Through high school, there were no football games, no dances, no
parties, no sleepovers, no malls. And no boyfriends.

"Ah, boys," says Hina, "I would have been sent back in a heartbeat."

After graduating from North Miami High School, she was scheduled to return to
Pakistan for an arranged marriage. That's when she bolted her uncle's house. "I
put everything I owned in a garbage bag and left."

Her sister, Huma, had to fulfill the family obligation to marry the husband
intended for Hina. It didn't last. She's now remarried and owns two gas stations
near Naples. The sisters are close, but Hina hasn't seen or talked to her father
since 1981.

"No, wait," she corrects, "I talked to him for 15 minutes in 1987."

Ali, now living in Saudi Arabia, has never seen his grandson Christopher.

On her own at 18, Askari did whatever it took to finish college and law school.
She lived with a Greek girlfriend and worked at her family's restaurant. When
the friend's brother returned home and reclaimed his bedroom, she moved on.

In the country illegally, she couldn't get a legitimate job so she fell in with
also-illegal Israelis who sold counterfeit T-shirts - Hard Rock Cafe, Benetton
and so on - at Broward flea markets. After a flea market raid by the Broward
Sheriff's Office, Hina was packed off to Krome with the illegal Israelis but was
assumed to be a U.S. citizen and let out after two days.

In 1987, when she found out she'd have to fly back to Pakistan for some of the
paperwork needed to become a U.S. citizen, she lived in her red Camaro for six
months to save the airfare.

"The flea market had a big restroom," she says. "No big deal. I was saving
money."

Once she got a Social Security card - "the happiest day of my life" - she went
to work at the Broward Jewish Community Center for three years while going to
school.

"They adopted me," she says fondly. She planned birthday parties and taught
aerobics. One day she saw a big guy playing basketball.

"He was so wise, so mature," she says, "and he looked like Bill Clinton." She
and Bob DePathy, who's in the insurance business, have been together 10 years.

Askari earned her law degree from Miami's St. Thomas University, passed the bar
and became a U.S. citizen in 1996. She opened her law office a year later. She
pieced together a staff by hiring bright young women who came to her as clients.
She solved their immigration and marriage problems and created a loyal,
tireless, multilingual family from Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Trinidad and
Lebanon. Her office still has the same $5 chairs and bargain-basement furniture
from day one.

The office joke is that a client meeting can last five minutes or five hours.
She can be tough. She won't tolerate any whining from detainees jailed at Krome.

"When they're crying, not eating, I tell them, 'This is a country club compared
to where they could send you. Hang on.'

"These people have no rights," she says, almost to herself. "I have to find
solutions for them."

Recently, one of Askari's clients, a 21-year-old Palestinian jailed at Krome,
begged her to get him a Jewish lawyer because he is convinced that will help his
asylum case.

"I cried," she says. But she complied. Her friend, Gelfman, now has the case.

Every day, worry swirls through Askari: Should she be talking to reporters? Is
this workload hurting her marriage? What should she do about the Pakistani
couple that is pleading with her to raise their four children - 4, 9, 11, 15 -
if they're deported? What should she tell the 18-year-old Pakistani who's
petrified he'll be snatched by INS, though he has no real reason to fear?

Every day delivers a new worry to Hina Askari, as the adopted country she loves
adjusts to a post-Sept. 11 reality.

"I'm proving my patriotism every day."

Krome detainees

Of some 50 Middle Eastern and South Asian men detained shortly before or after
Sept. 11 at Krome, here is what's known about 15 of them:

- Munir A. Abu Znaid, Jordanian citizen, became a lawful permanent resident of
the United States on Sept. 7, 1993. He is held for possible deportation because
he was convicted on Nov. 16 in Broward County of trafficking in a controlled
substance.

- Mohammed Al-Mohammed, 29-year-old Kuwaiti-born Palestinian who was arrested
when he sought political asylum after entering U.S. in October 2000. He was sent
to Krome but was released in February 2001. He was ordered deported Nov. 19,
when he did not appear for a hearing. He was picked up 10 days later when the
INS questioned other aliens. Arraignment scheduled for Tuesday.

- Bashar Ishak Sadek, 25, Iraqi Christian. Sought asylum in U.S. on Oct. 28,
arrested for no visa. Fears persecution if he returns to Iraq. Brother a legal
permanent U.S. resident.

- Shair Ali, 42, of Pakistani descent. Gas station manager who lives in Miami
Lakes. Arrested Oct. 25. Charged with overstaying his visa. Entered U.S. Nov. 1,
1990. Has three U.S.-born children.

- Sami Asfur, 21, Jordanian of Palestinian descent. Arrested in Texas April 14,
2000. Released on $3,000 bond in late April 2000 to await asylum hearing.
Rearrested Sept. 26 at work and sent to Krome. Bond was revoked, but no charges
were filed. On Dec. 19, immigration judge ordered him held without bond as a
flight risk and danger to the community, though no bond hearing has been held
and no charges filed.

- Sarkon Shaul Odesho El-Kahifi, 22, of Iraq. Arrived in U.S. Aug. 23, when he
was arrested after seeking asylum. Charged with entering U.S. without valid
documents. Fled from Iraqi army and fears persecution if he returns.

- Saad Jabber, 40, of Iraq. Arrested Sept. 3 upon arrival in U.S. Charged with
not having a visa. Fled Iraqi army in 1997 and requests political asylum.

- Ali Hassan Jasem, 39, of Iraq. Arrived in U.S. without valid papers Sept. 7
and was arrested when he sought asylum. Has a sister who is a U.S. citizen, and
his mother is a legal permanent U.S. resident. Paroled Jan. 22, with a cash bond
of $25,000.

- Doraid Joussef Suleiman, 18, of Iraq. Sought asylum in U.S. Aug. 14, when he
was arrested. Two brothers are U.S. citizens; parents, two other brothers and a
sister are legal permanent residents.

- Bardia Kutchemeshgi, 18, an Iranian Christian. Arrived in U.S. in March 2001
with mother Shirin and brother Borna, 17. Persecuted in Iran for religious
reasons, the family, including Shirin's husband, fled to India. Shirin's husband
left for U.S. and spent four months in Virginia prison, where he was denied
asylum. Left for Britain, where he was granted asylum. Shirin and her sons lived
with family members in Tampa before being arrested by INS Sept. 28. Bardia was
considered an adult and sent to Krome. Mother and brother placed in one room at
Miami hotel, where they are closely guarded. INS has agreed to release Shirin on
$5,000 bond and to release her sons without bond.

- Karim Lamine Rafrafi, of Pembroke Pines, a Tunisian, entered U.S. Dec. 22,
1999. Charged with overstaying tourist visa. Arrested Jan. 12.

- Mustafa A. Said-Ahmed, 35, of Sudan. Entered U.S. as visitor in 1988. Charged
with overstaying visa. Arrested Oct. 15. Arraignment today, when deportation
hearing could be set.

- Sana Ullah, 34, of Pakistan. Arrested Sept. 19 in Fort Lauderdale. Later
transferred to county jail in Key Largo but faces no criminal charges. Arrived
in U.S. Jan. 6, 1991. Charged with overstaying visa. A jeweler, he has two
brothers who are legal U.S. residents.

Ubaid Usmani, 25, of Pakistan. FBI arrested him as he was going to work in Fort
Lauderdale Oct. 3. When first at Krome, he wore red, indicating he violated
criminal law but later was given orange uniform, indicating he violated civil
immigration law only. Released Jan. 10, after posting $7,500 bond.

- Jamshid Shishehchian, 47, of Iran. Engineer lived in U.S. 1976-1979 and
1983-1992, entering again in January 2001. Master's degree from New Jersey
Institute of Technology. FBI says he worked illegally for Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey. He said he worked for a week in 1993 at World Trade Center.
FBI found 1998 Port Authority program with picture of WTC and Port Authority ID
badge among his belongings.

Coming Monday

Khaled is a South Florida Palestinian-American who has been detained since
mid-September. A student at FIU, he went on a field trip with his class and 11
hours later was in solitary confinement at Krome. Now, he's trying to win his
freedom.

Also . . .Officially, this is the Krome Service Processing Center on the eastern
edge of the Everglades. Unofficially, it's a prison. A look at the history and
the secrecy that surrounds the facility.

paul_lomartire@pbpost.com

lou_salome@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
First of two parts Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 C & 5 B&W), 1. (C) TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer
, Immigration attorney Hina Askari represents 10 clients at Krome, detention
center for free.
, 2. (B&W) TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer
, 'These people have no rights. I have to find solutions for them.'
, Hina Askari - Askari is one of a few women - with advocacy center, founder
Cheryl Little and lawyers Sheila Latimer and Rhonda Gelfman -, who are handling
most of the Krome cases. Above, Askari steals a, moment with her son,
Christopher.
, 3. (B&W) Courtesy Rhonda Gelfman 'I feel like a psychologist or, therapist
because they need someone to talk to.'
, Rhonda Gelfman - A 42-year-old mother of two, she has taken 18 cases, at Krome
since Sept. 11; of those cases, 11 are still active.
, 4. (B&W) Courtesy Florida Immigration Advocacy Center
, 'We can't sleep at night because we're so overwhelmed.'
, Cheryl Little - In 1996, Little founded the Florida Immigrant, Advocacy Center
in Miami, which provides free legal services to all, immigrants.
, 5. (B&W) Bashar Ishak Sadek (mug)
, 6. (B&W) Doraid Joussef Suleiman (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              27 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 3, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

BETTER BEAT FOR FLORIDA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 433 words


A recent survey found that about half of the farm workers, 25 percent of the
household workers and 10 percent of the restaurant employees in the United
States are undocumented immigrants. Each morning, about 8 million of these
illegal residents do the menial jobs Americans don't want but which the
expanding U.S. economy needs done.

If the federal and state governments follow through on a proposal before them,
sheriffs and city police in Florida soon will have the power to arrest these
immigrants just for being here. The agreement would transfer to local
law-enforcement officers federal arrest powers of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Florida could become the first state to receive the
authority.

The change comes because of Florida's connections to the Sept. 11 attacks. At
least 15 of the 19 hijackers passed through the state, and three of the
terrorists had expired visas. Florida Domestic Security Chief Steve Lauer
believes that all law-enforcement officers should be able to hold illegal
immigrants on civil charges without waiting for INS approval. Police already
have the power to detain them on criminal charges.

Immigration officials have wide latitude to arrest suspects on immigration
violations. Federal agents can use ethnic profiling and act without probable
cause. Those powers in the hands of local police and sheriff's deputies open
far-reaching opportunities for abuse and misadventure, as well as
misunderstanding. INS regulations are fluid, complex and often difficult even
for federal authorities to sort out. What determines the status of a Chinese
immigrant may not apply to a Haitian, and what makes a Cuban legal means nothing
for an Italian. A Nicaraguan who arrives today falls under different laws than a
Nicaraguan who came before 1986.

Recent experiments in transferring immigration enforcement from federal to state
employees have been problematic. In December, Gov. Bush signed an executive
order forcing state driver-license inspectors to verify the immigration
documents of foreign applicants. Complaints of confusion and unfairness have
come from both sides of the counter.

Broward County Sheriff Ken Jenne, chairman of the Southeast Regional Domestic
Security Task Force, thinks law-enforcement officers should assist the INS but
check immigration status only after arrests on state or county charges. Sheriff
Jenne rightly proposes a more reasonable collaboration between state and federal
agencies. The other option would amount to a reckless transfer of powers with
potentially far-reaching and ominous consequences.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              28 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 18, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH COMMISSION KILLS MEXICAN-ID PROPOSAL

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


City commissioners Tuesday voted down an ordinance to accept Mexican consular
cards as proof of city residency, saying they feared the city would be violating
immigration laws.

Commissioners voted 3-1 to receive and file the ordinance, a procedure
equivalent to denying approval, said Mayor Rodney Romano, the sole supporter of
the proposal. A move to postpone a vote until next month failed when it became
clear that a large number of mostly white residents who packed the chamber
wanted no delays, Romano said.

A postponement was sought by Hispanic community organizations who wanted more
time to convince residents and skeptical commissioners of the merits of the
measure, which passed on a first reading Sept. 3. A second reading is needed for
enactment.

The organizations and Mexican consular officers in Miami pushed for the law so
that the city's more than 2,400 Mexican residents could carry a photo ID to
apply for city utility service and open bank accounts. Since last year's
terrorist attacks, Mexicans without legal residency in the United States are
ineligible for Florida-issued IDs or driver licenses.

Commissioner Scott Maxwell said the ordinance was too risky because the city
could be cited for aiding illegal immigrants.

"Someone could come to our utility department and sign up for service which
would be a clear violation of the law," claimed Maxwell.

Romano said it appeared some commissioners were influenced by a memo from the
conservative Federation for Immigration Reform (FAIR) that suggested the city
would be harboring illegal immigrants. Romano, an attorney, called the legal
theory "bogus."

Under commission rules, the measure can be brought back only by one of the three
commissioners who voted against it. They were Maxwell, Colburn McKinnon and Joe
Egly. Commissioner Bo Allen was absent.

Romano said he wanted to help the city's Mexican residents, but his political
enemies exaggerated the ordinance's meaning.

"They wanted to make it look like I'm driving down to Tijuana and personally
bringing illegal aliens here," Romano said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              29 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 10, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT'S JAIL RELEASE HIGHLIGHTS SYSTEM'S FATAL FLAW

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT and JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1651 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Ducking the attention of immigration officials, Romeo Sifuentes walked out of
the Palm Beach County Jail twice after crimes that should have triggered his
deportation to Mexico.

The farmworker who was caught cashing bogus payroll checks and driving drunk
wasn't noticed until after his third arrest, for crashing head-on into a car
while driving the wrong way on South Dixie Highway.

The breakdown of the system to detain illegal immigrants booked into jail turned
out to be a fatal error. One man was killed and another injured in the wrong-way
crash.

"There are flaws in the system," said Art Bullock, chief agent for the U.S.
Border Patrol station at the Port of Palm Beach. "He slipped through the
cracks."

Although short-staffed, with just five agents to cover eight counties, the
Border Patrol has the job of reviewing jail bookings to identify and put holds
on illegal immigrants arrested by local police. The agency picks up about 35
illegal immigrants a month from the jail. But many arrested for minor crimes and
drunken driving go free.

The 35 inmates the INS tags each month total 420 a year, less than a third of
the 1,424 foreign-born inmates booked annually into Palm Beach County Jail. The
rule of thumb among government officials is that at least 70 percent of that
group is illegal. No one knows how many illegal immigrants are walking out of
jail each year.

Moreover, the jail appears to have been a revolving door for a number of the
foreign-born inmates. A Cox Newspapers-Palm Beach Post computer-based study
found 140 of the jail's foreign-born inmates from 1999-2001 had been arrested on
at least three occasions, and one had been arrested 10 times during the three
years.

The most common crime was grand theft.

The inspector general for the Justice Department warned last fall that a
"potentially vast, but largely unknown element" of deportable criminals put into
county jails is released, often to commit more crimes.

Local level ignored

Although the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service appears to do a good
job deporting those sent to state and federal prisons for serious felonies, the
INS has never attempted this in any comprehensive way at the local level, the
inspector general reported.

Congress focused briefly on the problem in 1997 when it ordered INS to staff 100
county jails in communities with high numbers of immigrants. But Congress never
put up any money and only a few jails saw any INS presence.

The Border Patrol, under an agreement with Palm Beach County State Attorney
Barry Krischer, had agents in the county jail in the mid-1990s to interview
suspected illegal immigrants. The agents were withdrawn when Bullock began
collecting the background information from computer databases and decided that
the on-scene agents were not necessary.

But the inspector general's report said that oversight at the county level
"requires on-site jail checks by INS agents to identify foreign-born inmates as
they enter the system" because these facilities, unlike state prisons, lack fast
and accurate computerized lists of foreign-born inmates.

Capt. Chris Kneisley, who oversees booking and release at the county jail,
agreed with that assessment.

"When you got a guy here every day, you're going to catch more, obviously," he
said. "And for whatever reasons, they can't afford to put somebody inside the
jail every day, and so it's just not going to be as efficient."

When INS agents were stationed in the building, they searched records by hand
and sped up the process of removal, especially for illegal immigrants charged
with minor crimes, Kneisley said.

Without that help, he said, "We just don't have the systems in place to catch
those individuals."

Judges can't ask questions

Also, suspects arrested for minor crimes and drunken driving often escape
immigration holds because immigration detention centers in Miami and Bradenton
are full or Bullock's agents are diverted by a boatload of immigrants on the
coastline.

"There is no way to make it 100 percent perfect," Bullock said. "We can't go to
the jail to talk to everyone who doesn't appear to be a U.S. citizen. We don't
have the manpower."

Bullock said he expects more attention on the issue will come when five new
agents are assigned this year to the Riviera Beach office.

Illegal immigrants arrested for misdemeanors such as loitering or driving with
an open bottle of beer in a car are not detained, Bullock said. Also, illegal
immigrants could be overlooked if they lie and tell jail intake officers that
they were born in the United States, he said.

Because of court decisions, judges cannot question them about their immigration
status when they appear in court, said County Judge Nelson Bailey. He often can
spot illegal immigrants if records show they require an interpreter or have a
Border Patrol hold on them, he said.

"I do get very frustrated because some who are not here legally come before us
over and over again," Bailey said.

Farmworkers seldom get charged with felonies, he said, but many pass through his
court charged with DUI and driving without a license.

"If they are in the country illegally, any kind of arrest should result in the
INS or Border Patrol learning about it," Bailey said. "If that's not happening ,
it's a major hole in the system and an easy one to plug."

Moreover, Congress has passed toughly worded laws that have had limited effect.

In 1996, Congress passed legislation, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West
Palm Beach, that formally authorized the government to use the expedited
deportation methods tested at the Palm Beach Jail. (Foley, in an interview, said
he was "frustrated" that his deportation measure had not been applied to
Sifuentes. "It seemed like the INS turned its back on this," he said.)

As for the Palm Beach County Jail experiment, the final INS agents were pulled
out in 2001, much to the disappointment of state prosecutors.

"It was actually working well," said Robert Shepherd, a prosecutor who worked at
the jail in the mid 1990s. "Once it was determined that (inmates) were in fact
illegal, they were gone," he said. "This sounds sort of cliche, but we were
actually making a difference here. . . . And then it just sort of withered and
died."

Fake IDs skirt rules

Sifuentes capitalized on the flaws, using fake IDs, posing as a Guatemalan and
making up names when arrested.

But alarms should have sounded when a police officer caught him with a fake
residency card during the first arrest in December 1998. Anyone using
counterfeit U.S. documents is a priority for the Border Patrol. West Palm Beach
police officer Matthew Bessette wrote in his report that the Border Patrol was
notified.

Bessette arrested Sifuentes, then using the alias Caldino Salas, on felony
charges of cashing a $432 check at a Broadway food market. Salas flashed the
counterfeit immigration card to cash the check. He was caught when he later
tried to pass an identical check at a nearby gas station, which happened to be
managed by the brother of the food market owner who called to alert him.

Sifuentes was arraigned on the charges just three days after the Border Patrol
hauled in eight Haitians who landed on Singer Island. Rounding up smuggled
illegal immigrants is the agency's top job.

Sifuentes spent 43 days in jail, bonded out and disappeared until he was
arrested in April 2000 for crashing into a parked car near Palm Beach Lakes
Boulevard and fleeing the scene.

"He provided several different names which were mostly unintelligible due to his
slurred speech," a sheriff's deputy wrote in his arrest report.

Sifuentes, still using the name Salas, spent another 37 days in jail. Still, no
immigration holds were put on him to prevent his release. A judge sentenced him
to time he had served and probation, which Sifuentes ignored. He failed to
report to the probation office and dodged an arrest warrant until the South
Dixie Highway crash.

After a night of drinking beer in a Lake Worth bar, Sifuentes headed north to
his apartment on Broadway, driving his gray GMC van alone. He crossed over into
the southbound lane, smashing into a small Nissan car driven by Santos
Gomez-Mejia, 25, who also had been out drinking that night. Gomez-Mejia, a
Guatemalan farmworker, was killed instantly and a male passenger sleeping in the
back seat was sent to the hospital with minor injuries.

Sifuentes carried a driver license issued in Mexico and told investigators he
did not have a license issued in the United States. The INS says he's really
from Chiapas in southern Mexico near the Guatemalan border.

The Mexican immigrant is now serving 12 years in a Florida prison from his
conviction in 2001 for DUI manslaughter.

Aggravated felons priority

Asked about how Sifuentes was missed, INS spokeswoman Amy Otten said it was not
the agency's practice to deport petty criminals.

"In all of this is the issue of resources and how much resources we have, how
much each district has and how much we have in total and where it's best to
devote the resources," she said. "As an agency, we've decided that criminal
immigrants - meaning aggravated felons - are one of our priorities."

As for illegal immigrants charged with less serious crimes such as DUI, she
said, "It's going to depend on resources we have available at the moment."

In a sad irony, Sifuentes now rates the attention of the authorities. He has
finally been tagged for deportation, after he completes his sentence.

Still, Sifuentes is looking for another lucky break. Last year he filed an
appeal of his conviction, saying he's attending Alcoholics Anonymous to deal
with his drinking problem. He also said his family in Mexico is under tremendous
hardship because they depend on him for support.

Database Editor Christine Stapleton and Researcher Dorothy Shea contributed to
this story.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W); 1. ROMEO SIFUENTES: Each time Romeo Sifuentes, alias
Caldino Salas, entered the Palm Beach County Jail, he was released without the
INS catching up to him. His booking photos are (from left) Dec. 11, 1998.  2.
Romeo Sifuentes, booking photo April 29, 2000 (mug) 3.  Romeo Sifuentes, booking
photo Feb. 17, 2001.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              30 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 13, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

DEPLOY INS AT THE JAILS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 396 words


U.S. immigration policy is so chronically disjointed that even when a good idea
comes along, it is likely to get lost in the bureaucratic and political
shuffles.

An experiment at the Palm Beach County Jail in the mid-1990s is a perfect
illustration of the problem. Congress recognized the need for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to identify and deport illegal immigrant offenders at
the front lines of the criminal justice system. Lawmakers ordered the INS to
staff county jails and passed legislation authorizing expedited deportation
methods.

Prosecutors working at the Palm Beach County Jail praised the changes. The INS
agents stationed on-site quickly resolved questions about foreign-born
criminals' immigration status and sent them home. "This sounds sort of cliche,"
said Assistant State Attorney Robert Shepherd, "but we were actually making a
difference here."

But in 2001, the experiment ended. The INS, understaffed and overworked, pulled
its agents out of the jail and assigned them elsewhere, leaving it up to the
Border Patrol to review jail bookings and hold illegal immigrants in custody for
deportation hearings. The Border Patrol is even more understaffed and overworked
than the INS, with five agents assigned to cover eight South Florida counties. A
Cox Newspapers-Palm Beach Post study found that illegal immigrants the
government should have deported were allowed to become chronic repeat offenders:
140 jail inmates in Palm Beach County between 1999 and 2001 had been arrested at
least three times; one man had at least 10 arrests. One of the worst examples
was Romeo Sifuentes, who avoided deportation to Mexico twice after arrests
before driving drunk and killing another driver in a wrong-way crash on South
Dixie Highway.

Border Patrol officials will get a little help this year when five more agents
are added to the Riviera Beach office. As demands for homeland security
increase, government must use its manpower wisely. Based on experience, it is
clear that putting INS agents at county jails improves the efficiency of dealing
with immigrant offenders and plugs a hole in the system. Deportation is proper
for foreigners, especially illegal immigrants, who break the law. Ideas about
immigration enforcement that work are too valuable to let fade away. The INS
must make screening offenders at county jails a priority.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              31 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 20, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMPROVE BUSH IMMIGRATION PLAN BY ADDING LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 378 words


President Bush's recently unveiled plan for immigration reform is fine as far as
it goes, but as long as the personal employment opportunities in the United
States exceed the dangers to one's person, migrants will continue to cross the
borders in hopes of gaining employment. And since there are those who continue
to benefit handsomely by this arrangement, the borders will remain open,
regardless of our unenforceable laws.

So, maybe there is a winning solution that will give everyone what he wants plus
an additional dividend that no one seems to have thought of, i.e., immigration
reciprocity. Simply put, why not issue green cards to all migrants who can read,
write and speak English? It is silly to think that the flow of illegals ever can
be stopped, so requiring fluency in English would make each migrant much more
difficult to exploit and would help prepare him or her for that first rung up
the ladder to U.S. citizenship.

Let us face this obvious fact: They are coming in anyway. So, is it not far more
logical to make them legal as well as better potential residents, rather than
illegals fearing expulsion and/or exploitation? As it stands right now, they are
cheated of their measly pay, charged exorbitant amounts for their food and
lodging and generally humiliated while our laws are just as generally flouted or
ignored by one and all. Would it not be better if they went to an English
language school in Mexico to learn English first, and then entered the U.S.
properly documented?

Of course - and this is a very important point - there must be reciprocity. U.S.
citizens who can read, write and speak Spanish should be allowed the same
working papers (the equivalent of a Mexican green card) to enter Mexico exactly
as we would allow its citizens to enter the U.S. This would allow Americanss to
live and work there without the onerous restrictions that are now in place and
rigorously imposed upon U.S. citizens as well as American companies that would
be likely to employ these Americans in Mexico.

Wouldn't this be a far better resolution for this continuing problem that
divides two otherwise good neighbors rather than just another amnesty, followed
by another amnesty, followed by another amnesty?

HOWARD MORTON

Tequesta

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              32 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 23, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

DEUTSCH BACKS BILL AT ODDS WITH HIS IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 288 words


Days after U.S. Senate candidate Peter Deutsch said illegal immigrants should be
forced to leave the country, the Broward County congressman became the
co-sponsor of a bill that would allow them to stay.

Deutsch told The Palm Beach Post editorial board July 7 that illegal immigrants
should be returned home "by plane or by boat."

"Sending people back is the law," Deutsch said. "It's a discouraging thing to
say we should encourage illegal activity."

A week later, Deutsch became one of the last two of 115 co-sponsors of the
Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of 2003, a bill that
spells out a process for illegal farmworkers to attain legal status. The bill is
still stuck in a House subcommittee.

Deutsch denied changing positions or being inconsistent. He said he thought he
was answering questions about a more restrictive guest worker immigration bill
proposed by President Bush.

"I really didn't understand the question," Deutsch said. He said the quotes
attributed to him were accurate.

Deutsch, who is in a three-way race for the Democratic nomination for U.S.
senator, said he opposes Bush's bill because workers would have few protections,
would be treated like second-class citizens and "in effect face involuntary
servitude."

During his 12 years in Congress, Deutsch frequently has supported various
amnesty programs for immigrants from Haiti and Central America. He also has
supported legislation allowing immigrants to stay in this country longer.

"I'm comfortable with my positions on immigration," he said.

In the Aug. 31 primary, the other Democratic contenders are former Education
Commissioner Betty Castor and Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas.

brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Peter Deutsch (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              33 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 2, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ADD HELP FOR REFUGEES TO HELP FOR HIGH-TECH

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 411 words


Congress should base immigration policy on fairness. But with the election
little more than a month away, Republicans and Democrats in the Senate are
interpreting the word from widely divergent political perspectives.

Democrats think it's fair to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants who entered the
United States before 1986 - Haitians, Hondurans, Guatemalans and Salvadorans,
most of whom came here fleeing civil strife. The Latino and Immigrant Fairness
Act, Democrats insist, would treat these groups the same as Cubans, Nicaraguans
and immigrants from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet bloc.

Republicans think that's not fair because between 800,000 and 2 million people
could become citizens, most of them Hispanics who are more likely to wind up
registered as Democratic voters than Republican. GOP lawmakers, instead, want to
be fair to the technology industry. They are backing legislation that would
expand the number of H-1B visas for high-tech foreign workers. The Democrats
have supported this, too, but they want it packaged with the amnesty provisions.
Democrats say it isn't fair to treat skilled high-tech workers, most of them
Asian, one way and the predominantly unskilled Hispanic immigrants another.

But Republicans charge the other side with procedural maneuvering designed to
make them look bad. The amnesty is controversial; the high-tech visas are not.
Republicans believe linking them is unfair. The Democrats' plan, they say, is to
trap them into voting down the strategically named Latino Fairness Act as their
presidential candidate, Texas Gov. George W. Bush, is trying desperately to woo
Hispanic voters in the final days of a close race.

President Clinton says he will veto one of the spending bills Congress must
enact before adjournment if amnesty isn't included. Forty-three senators and 152
representatives, enough votes in both chambers to sustain the veto, have signed
a letter urging him to do so. Republicans complain that he is unfairly holding
spending bills hostage to immigration policy.

Were there more common sense than partisanship on this issue in Congress, it
would be obvious that the high-tech industry does need more visas to get the
skilled workers it lacks. Also, it would be apparent that refugees from Central
America shouldn't get different treatment than those who left under similar
circumstances from Eastern Europe. The fair thing would be for Congress to
approve both measures.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              34 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 7, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

BUSH WEIGHS LEGALIZING SOME MIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: Bob Deans, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a nod to visiting Mexican President Vicente Fox and America's growing
Hispanic community, President Bush said Thursday he would consider ways to
legalize some of the millions of Mexicans who have slipped across the U.S.
border illicitly in search of better lives.

It was the first time Bush said publicly that he would seek immigration reforms
aimed at creating a special status for the estimated 3.5 million Mexican
migrants living and working in the United States without legal documentation.

"There are some - many - in our country who are undocumented, and we want to
make sure that their labor is legal," Bush told reporters during a joint press
conference with Fox at the White House. "I'm willing to consider ways for a
guest worker to earn a green card status," Bush said, referring to the document
migrants in the United States need to live and work legally.

Bush made the comments during the second day of a three-day state visit by Fox,
who has urged his American counterpart to agree to sweeping immigration reforms
by the end of the year.

Bush declined to embrace that time frame, insisting instead on a good-faith
effort to try to broker some sort of compromise over what has become one of the
most politically charged issues of his young presidency.

Many conservatives in Congress regard efforts to legalize undocumented migrants
as a reward to those who broke U.S. laws to enter this country, and an
invitation for others to follow.

"We're trying to work through a formula that will not penalize the person who's
chosen the legal route, and at the same time recognizes the contribution the
undocumented has made," Bush said.

Bush and Fox traveled aboard Air Force One to the country's heartland, visiting
Toledo, Ohio, home to a thriving Hispanic community and symbol of the country's
fastest-growing ethnic group.

Latinos now represent 12.5 percent of the U.S. population. Over the past decade
they have eclipsed blacks as the nation's largest minority group.

Bush came to the White House eight months ago promising to revamp the way the
country deals with Mexico.

Roughly half a million Mexicans enter this country - legally or otherwise - each
year. About 400 died last year trying to slip across the border.

While the government characterizes them as "illegal aliens," Bush sought to cast
them as spirited pioneers following the same dreams that led Europeans to cross
the Atlantic two centuries ago.

"Think about the Mexican worker who walks 500 miles across a desert to find
work," Bush said in a speech at the University of Toledo. "Those are
hard-working citizens. We share that very important value of people willing to
roll up their sleeves and work hard."

While there is broad bipartisan support for reforms that would allow for
additional numbers of Mexicans to legally enter the country to work for a year
or so and then return, there is potent opposition to any measure that would
grant amnesty to illegal migrants already in the country.

Thursday night, Fox hosted Bush for a private dinner at Blair House, the
presidential guest quarters across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House.

Fox had a series of meetings and speeches scheduled Friday in Washington before
traveling to Miami to attend a forum on international trade.

bobdeans@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              35 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 18, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

INTO THE LIGHT, AND SAFER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 399 words


Migrant workers are ideal targets for crime. They tend to carry cash. Many of
them walk alone through tough neighborhoods. When victimized, they often are
reluctant to contact authorities because of concerns about their immigration
status.

The reporting problems make it difficult to assess how prevalent crimes against
migrants have become in South Florida. But law-enforcement agencies from the
Treasure Coast to Palm Beach County acknowledge that they have their hands full
preventing this largely undocumented, itinerant population from falling prey to
criminals.

This month, Lake Worth police officers took aggressive, pro-active measures in
defense of migrants with an undercover sting operation aimed at thwarting recent
increases in street crimes against Hispanic and Mayan workers. The police used
two Spanish-speaking officers who posed as migrants in the city's downtown. One
of the undercover officers wore a gold bracelet and watch, and before long, he
attracted two male teenagers. Police say they tried to take the jewelry. A
backup team arrested the suspects and charged them with robbery by sudden
snatching.

Police say the incident reflects other assaults in which groups of teenagers
targeted migrants. "We want these suspects to think twice," said Sgt. Daniel
Boland, "because next time they try this, it could be a police officer
involved."

Another way to deter the mugging of migrants is to encourage them to put their
money in banks instead of their pockets. Several South Florida banks - including
Wachovia, Bank of America, Washington Mutual and SunTrust - have begun accepting
the Mexican matricula consular identification cards, so migrants can open
accounts. More than 100 cities and counties across the nation have recognized
the cards, which the Mexican government issues for its nationals living in the
United States. The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, the Sarasota sheriff and
several local governments in Miami-Dade County have endorsed the cards. Last
year, the Lake Worth City Commission thought about it, then voted 3-1 against
recognizing the cards. Cities that allow use of the IDs say they encourage
cooperation with law enforcement and help police resolve identity disputes.

Lake Worth's sting operation sends the right message to all communities: Crimes
against migrants are every bit as intolerable as crimes against U.S. citizens.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              36 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 24, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

NEW IMMIGRATION LAWS, BETTER NATIONAL SECURITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 414 words


During a visit to Miami this month, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge
surprised the White House and some Republicans with a spontaneous comment about
immigration policy. He suggested that the government try an honest approach for
a change.

"Sooner rather than later," Mr. Ridge said, "we need to deal with the reality
that these men, women and families are here, many contributing - most
contributing - to their community, paying taxes, paying into Social Security. We
have to legalize their status."

The administration cringed over the secretary's willingness to describe a
political taboo: amnesty, the dreaded A-word. President Bush tried to defuse Mr.
Ridge's remarks by expressing support for policy that matches U.S. employers
with foreign workers and goes no further. But coming from the man charged with
protecting Americans from terrorism, Mr. Ridge's correlation of security and
sweeping immigration reform was impossible to ignore. He correctly acknowledged
that ending dishonest treatment of foreign workers and allowing them to
participate in a legal, open system actually would enhance homeland security,
not undermine it.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., and 48 of his colleagues - 24 of them Republicans -
have reached the same conclusion. They are co-sponsoring a bill called the
AgJOBS Act, which over time would make millions of migrant workers eligible for
legal residency. The legislation also could improve guest-worker programs to
guard against smuggling and abusive conditions outlined in The Post's recent
series on migrant farmworkers. Other guest-worker proposals in Congress would
expand the program beyond agriculture. Migrants and illegal immigrants who can
prove they have worked for a specified time for a U.S. employer eventually could
apply for legal status.

For Florida, the proposals would help to provide a stable work force for the
agriculture, service and construction industries. Reform at the federal level
will relieve some of the state's enforcement burdens and shift them to
Washington, where they belong. Immigration is a national problem, yet Florida
and border states find themselves abandoned at the front lines.

Congress appears more willing to confront two critical realities about the
nation's 8 million to 12 million illegal immigrants: Their work is essential to
the economy, and their presence here is essentially uncharted. Moving this
population from the shadows to the light will help Mr. Ridge do his job better.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              37 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             March 6, 2004 Saturday saturday FINAL EDITION edition

FOX VISITS WITH BUSH AT CRAWFORD RANCH ranch

BYLINE: By JASON EMBRY Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 4A 4A

LENGTH: 430 words words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, TEXAS texas


President Bush welcomed President Vicente Fox of Mexico to his Prairie Chapel
Ranch on Friday for weekend talks expected to cover trade, water and immigration
policies.

"El presidente!" Bush said as Fox stepped off a U.S. Marine helicopter at the
1,600-acre ranch.

"Hola!" Fox replied.  replied.

The two leaders had a budding friendship in the months after Bush took office in
January 2001. But Fox cancelled a trip to Crawford in 2002 to protest the
execution of convicted murderer Javier Suarez Medina, a Mexican citizen, in
Texas. Fox also didn't provide the support Bush wanted for the war in Iraq.

But Fox has embraced Bush's plan to grant guest-worker status for three years to
millions of undocumented workers. The plan's reception has been cooler on
Capitol Hill.

"(Bush) is going to continue to talk about the importance of acting on it,"
White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan said Friday. "We are continuing to
work with Congress to work on legislation that meets the principles that the
president outlined."

Also Friday, Bush continued to face criticism for using footage of the World
Trade Center after the Sept. 11 attacks in an early campaign ad. Representatives
of Peaceful Tomorrows, a group of victims' relatives, gathered in New York on
Friday to condemn the ad.

McClellan said the White House "respectfully disagrees" with the groups
criticizing the ads.

"I think most Americans feel it's important to talk about how we lead in a
post-September 11th world," he said.

Fox and wife Marta Sahagun arrived in nearby Waco on Friday, then flew on the
helicopter to Bush's ranch. The U.S. president then drove his guests and first
lady Laura Bush to his one-story ranch house in an F-250 pickup.

The couples' dinner menu included "Prairie Chapel Ranch bass" that Bush said he
caught himself. The two leaders will continue their talks this morning and meet
with reporters before Fox leaves in the afternoon - a standard itinerary for a
foreign leader making a Crawford visit.

Crawford residents put up a few Mexican flags downtown for the visit, and the
marquee outside the Coffee Station, where Bush has been known to stop for a
cheeseburger and onion rings, reads, "Bienvenidos Amigos."

At least five souvenir and gift shops have sprouted in the one-stoplight town of
about 700 people since Bush was elected, but Crawford's market for coffee mugs
and key chains might have reached its saturation point. The Brown Bag, one of
the first shops to open after Bush became president, is now a tanning salon
called Bronze Your Buns.

jembry@statesman.com com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); CHARLES DHARAPAK/The Associated Press President Bush waves
while driving Mexican President Vicente Fox to his ranch. Talks are expected to
cover trade, water and immigration.  immigration.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              38 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 7, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

LABOR CONTRACTORS CONTROL MIGRANTS' LIVES AND SOMETIMES COMMIT CRIMES AGAINST
THEM

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 382 words


It is labor contractors who have been accused of the most serious crimes against
undocumented workers - from stealing wages and Social Security payments to
paying workers with drugs, and outright slavery.

Of the major slavery cases involving farm workers prosecuted in the U.S. in the
past decade, most have been in Florida and have involved contractors. In some
cases, contractors pay off smugglers who bring workers into the country and then
lock up workers or threaten them until they work off those debts.

"Everybody knows that the worst places to go to work in the States are the big
cities and the state of Florida," says Juventino Calva, 25, a migrant worker
interviewed in Mexico who was heading to Missouri.

Advocates for migrants say Florida's poor reputation is due, in large part, to
the fact that contractors serve as the employers of farm workers, as opposed to
direct employment by growers. In Florida, 50.4 percent of migrants work for
contractors, as compared to 20.6 percent elsewhere in the U.S., a federal study
states.

"The reason that growers use contractors is to distance themselves," says Raul
Barrera of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Florida. "The growers use
it as a way to hire undocumented workers and avoid liability."

According to the U.S. Department of Labor, in the past four years, Florida labor
contractors were cited 916 times for failure to pay wages when due, 464 times
for failure to provide safe transport vehicles, 442 times for failure to present
workers with proper wage statements, and 431 instances of interfering with
federal investigators - among other violations. Most violations draw warnings,
not fines. Of 6,605 violations recorded by DOL inspectors the past four years,
only 869 drew fines, and the average penalty was less than $300.

The Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation fined contractors
another 1,083 times in the past three years and it revoked the licenses of 173
contractors, according to department figures. But no one believes that all the
violations have been reported.

"Most of the time, the workers are too scared to report abuses," says Rob
Williams, an attorney for the Justice Project. "They keep their mouths shut."

- Reported by John Lantigua and Christine Stapleton

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 1 of 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Florida field hands
follow their leader: Crew leader Rigoberto Santoyo (center) brings his workers
to the Garcia Plaza Bakery in Fellsmere on Friday afternoons to cash their
paychecks. Migrants often depend on labor contractors such as Santoyo for almost
every aspect of their lives, including jobs, shelter, transportation and pay.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              39 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 6, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 121 words


PALM BEACH SHORES - A ramshackle fishing boat abandoned at the Sailfish Marina
may be connected with Saturday's illegal immigrant smuggling operation in which
16 Haitians were forced to swim for it in 15-foot-deep waters about 50 yards
west of the town's shoreline. One woman is missing and presumed drowned,
although her body hasn't been recovered, said Art Bullock, Border Patrol agent
in charge of the Riviera Beach station. A man also injured in the 11:45 p.m.
incident is in critical condition on life support at St. Mary's Medical Center,
Bullock said. The surviving 14 Haitians were taken to Krome Detention Center
west of Miami, as were other immigrants captured in separate landings over the
weekend.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              40 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 28, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

END THE BAHAMAS RUN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 399 words


Border Patrol agents in South Florida can watch the Weather Channel to find out
how much work is waiting for them. When tropical activity is minimal and seas
are calm, the smuggling boats are sure to be running human cargo from the
Bahamas to Florida.

Since 1986, agents have rounded up an average of 2,000 illegal immigrants
arriving this way each year. The lucky ones are dropped close enough to shore to
avoid drowning. They show up on the beaches, in the seaside parks or walking in
groups along State Road A1A. Law-enforcement departments throughout Palm Beach
and Martin counties consider 911 refugee calls part of daily life. Police detain
the migrants until Immigration and Naturalization Service officials transport
them to Krome Detention Center west of Miami. Many mornings begin this way.

Smuggling immigrants is a lucrative business, and the crime doesn't carry the
tough sentences or social stigma of drug-running. Captains make at least $2,000
per person and can pack even small boats with several dozen for the short trip.
The demand for services is always there. Last year, Bahamian police cracked down
on Haitian refugees living illegally in the islands. The spillover effect
touched off a new wave of smuggling as many tried to flee to Florida.

Years ago, agents expected to find Haitians and Cubans coming out of the Bahamas
pipeline. They still do, but the makeup of the cargo has changed significantly.

Sunday, Delray Beach and Highland Beach police officers caught 15 illegal
immigrants on A1A. Ten were from India, four from Cuba and one from Poland. In
October, Riviera Beach police found four Chinese who landed on Singer Island.
The numbers of Asian refugees coming illegally through the Bahamas is increasing
as the smuggling route to South Florida gains a global reputation.

President Bush is making border control a necessary point of emphasis early in
his administration. He met with Mexico President Vicente Fox two weeks ago and
discussed ways of stemming the illegal flow between the countries. Though
Florida's problem doesn't approach the scope of the Southwest border states', it
is just as frustrating for law enforcement and can be just as deadly for
refugees. President Bush should make the Florida shoreline a priority, too. That
would mean more resources for agents and more pressure on the Bahamas to plug
its end of the pipe.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              41 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 31, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

U.S. ADDS AGENTS FOR IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Joe Brogan, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


To help combat increasingly aggressive immigrant smugglers in the seas off South
Florida, the Border Patrol and other federal agencies are stepping up patrols
and deploying more than two dozen additional agents.

The move essentially triples the number of agents assigned to the Miami office
to try to stop the smuggling of Cubans into South Florida, particularly the
Florida Keys. The seas off the bottom of the Florida peninsula will also get a
special surveillance plane to search for speedboats loaded with Cubans hoping to
surreptitiously set foot on American soil and automatically qualify for the
right to remain here.

The extra agents will not be deployed in the West Palm Beach area, where the
major problem is smugglers who bring undocumented foreigners by boat from the
Bahamas.

"They're not ignoring us, but they've got to fix the problem there first," agent
in charge Art Bullock said Thursday referring to the decision to send more
agents to Miami.

But Bullock said that his office is also stepping up air surveillance and boat
patrols off Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast.

A Border Patrol plane with night vision and other technical equipment will track
smuggling boats as they approach the United States and then alert either
patrolling or on-call boats to intercept them, he said.

Since October, more than 400 foreign nationals have been arrested by Bullock's
agents after landing illegally.

Bullock said he has not had additional agents for the past 3 1/2 years and has
asked for considerably more, which would be up to Congress to finance.

Although he would not say how many agents are in his station, or how many new
agents he was requesting, a 1999 Palm Beach Post story stated there were five
agents and two investigators there.

At that time, Bullock was quoted as saying it would take 40 to 60 agents to do
the job right.

The latest incident illustrating the problem involves two Bahamians who are
expected to be charged today with smuggling 15 Haitians to U.S. waters off North
Palm Beach Monday night before being intercepted by customs and state wildlife
officers.

The Haitians traveled from Nassau to Freeport before being transported, Bullock
said.

Some of the Haitians, who are being held on a Coast Guard cutter offshore, will
be taken ashore as witnesses in the smuggling case, while the remainder will be
sent back to the Bahamas.

Bullock said the U.S. embassy in the Bahamas will be asked to come up with an
estimate of how many Haitians and other foreign nationals are in the islands and
looking to enter the U.S. illegally.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              42 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 12, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

END 'INHUMANE' POLICY ON REFUGEES FROM HAITI

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 426 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service changed its policy on Haitian
asylum-seekers in December as part of the government's campaign for tighter
borders in the wake of Sept. 11. Fearing an exodus from the island, the Bush
administration ordered all Haitian refugees coming arriving by boat to remain
under detention while the INS considered their asylum requests.

Until the secret order, the government usually released Haitians until
immigration judges heard their cases. Other nationalities have not been singled
out this way. Last week, members of a U.S. Senate subcommittee who occupy
different ends of the political spectrum on immigration heard testimony that led
them to the same conclusion: The government's policy is wrong. "I really hope we
can stop this mistreatment of one group," said Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., one
of the Senate's strongest conservatives. The INS, said Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., one of the strongest liberals, is subjecting the Haitians to "more
restrictive treatment" than other groups and that "appears to violate U.S. law."
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., called the indefinite detention of asylum seekers
"inhumane."

About 100 Haitians remain locked up in South Florida jail cells and at the Krome
detention center in Miami-Dade County, immigration advocates say. One woman who
testified to the senators said she was strip-searched, put in cells with
criminals and without toilets or water, denied access to attorneys and then sent
to hearings without interpreters. Some of the detainees fled Haiti after attacks
on their families and have legitimate reasons to fear return to a country where
political violence is commonplace. Had they told the same stories and come from
Cuba or Eastern Europe or South America, the government would not have locked
them away. The government fast-tracked many of the Haitians' cases and deported
dozens without due process.

The Florida Immigration Advocacy Center sued the INS in March, claiming that the
new policy is racist and discriminatory. Sens. Brownback, Kennedy and Graham
agree it is abusive, and so does a bipartisan majority of a House human rights
panel. Rep. Benjamin Gilman, R-N.Y., called it "appalling" that the INS is
unwilling to consider credible appeals for asylum. The foundation of the
American approach to immigration must be fair treatment for all who arrive here,
without racial, ethnic or religious distinctions. The White House and INS refuse
to uphold that standard. Congress must change a policy that is antithetical to
American principles.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              43 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 16, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION SCREED IGNORES VALUE TO NATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 164 words


A few sentences in the Aug. 8 article "Immigration adds to the uninsured" really
surprised me. For instance, "If we are ever to get a handle on the nation's
health insurance crisis . . . decide whether it makes sense to continue to allow
hundreds of thousands of unskilled legal and illegal immigrants into the country
each year."

The writer, Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, has probably
forgotten that every American's ancestors were immigrants at one time or
another. Also, the Immigration and Naturalization Service allows 150,000
immigrants to enter the country legally every year, not hundreds of thousands.
As for illegal aliens, the INS deports thousands of them every year.

Finally, legal and illegal immigrants do jobs that the average American would
not do - for example, picking tomatoes for $ 5 an hour. Our country was founded
on immigration, and that is what makes the United States unique and powerful.

DIMOS CHAROUDIS

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              44 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 7, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL: MORE REFUGEES FLEEING BAHAMAS

BYLINE: Joe Brogan, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Glassy calm seas and a police crackdown on illegal immigrants in the Bahamas has
apparently sparked a recent increase in the number of refugees fleeing to the
United States in smuggling boats, Border Patrol agent in charge Art Bullock said
Wednesday.

"We've received word that last week the Bahamian police put out word that they
would be rounding up Haitians, and they apparently felt they had to go and go
now," Bullock said. "And it probably allows smugglers to jack up the prices
because the people are desperate to get out."

Immigration officials have learned that some smugglers get $ 2,000 or more for
each person they smuggle to South Florida from The Bahamas.

Bullock said there were five separate landings in South Florida over the Labor
Day weekend, with about 25 immigrants believed to have eluded capture.

Agents are still investigating a landing at 11:45 p.m. Saturday in Palm Beach
Shores in which 16 Haitians were forced overboard and one woman may have
drowned. Her body hasn't been found. Another man remains in critical condition
at St. Mary's Medical Center. The 14 captured immigrants were taken to Krome
Detention Center west of Miami.

"Two crew members told them to jump and started pushing them into the water,"
Bullock said. A ramshackle 35-foot boat from North Carolina that may have been
the smuggling vessel was discovered docked at the Sailfish Marina.

There were 1,038 undocumented immigrants arrested in Southeast Florida from Oct.
1 through July 31, the latest date for which statistics are compiled.

For the same period last year, there were 928 illegal immigrants taken into
custody. Since 1986, the highest total of arrests for a 12-month period was
2,299 in 1996-1997.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              45 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 10, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

THIS BUCHANAN VOTE A SURE ONE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 216 words


I am one of the Palm Beach County Democrats who voted for Pat Buchanan. I was
not at all baffled by the supposedly confusing ballot whereby some Democrats
mistakenly voted for Mr. Buchanan. I am baffled by the Democrats' and Al Gore's
propensity to pander to minorities.

For the first time in my life, I did not vote for the Democratic candidate. I
vowed not to vote for Mr. Gore when he supported the relatives who kidnapped
Elian Gonzalez. Mr. Gore pandered to an ethnic minority when he should have
stood up for the human right of a father to be with his son.

Mr. Gore supported an amnesty for millions of illegal aliens. History proves
amnesties for illegal aliens promote more illegal immigration. Mr. Gore chose to
pander for minority votes instead of representing the majority of Americans who
favor immigration law enforcement.

My vote was a protest against the Democrats and a vote for Mr. Buchanan's
courage to speak out on an issue that neither the Democrats nor Republicans nor
the media want to openly discuss - the huge costs of mass immigration to our
stressed environment, crowded schools and burdened health-care system.

Mr. Gore had everything going but seems as though he was able to snatch defeat
from the jaws of victory.

DAVID W. CAULKETT

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ON THE BALLOT CONTROVERSY: VIEWS FROM FLORIDIANS

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              46 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 30, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL AGENTS PICK UP 25 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN BOCA

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


U.S. Border Patrol agents picked up 25 undocumented immigrants, including two
infants, who landed Sunday night at Red Reef Park, according to police.

A speedboat dropped off the 16 Haitian men, four Haitian women, two Guyanese
women, one Guyanese man and two Haitian babies around 10 p.m.

Park ranger Dan Brooks reported to police that he saw a large group of people
run into the dunes. The white boat with two large outboard engines sped away
toward the southeast, Brooks said.

One pregnant woman with stomach pains went to Boca Raton Community Hospital and
was released Monday. All were taken Monday to Krome Detention Center west of
Miami.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              47 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 13, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 119 words


RIVIERA BEACH Seven Chinese illegal immigrants were arrested Monday after a boat
dropped them off at 6:40 a.m. at Phil Foster Park, according to U.S. Border
Patrol agents. The adult men had no medical or health problems and were to be
taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami. The smuggling boat was not recovered.

WEST PALM BEACH The body of a woman found in a canal has been identified as
Latiuana McCleandon, 25, from Riviera Beach, police said. A man waiting for the
bus discovered the body Sunday in the H-15 canal north of Okeechobee Boulevard
and Congress Avenue. Police believe she died of natural causes, but the medical
examiner's office will make the final determination after an autopsy.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              48 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 17, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 136 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents detained 45 undocumented immigrants who landed ashore
in Boca Raton and Highland Beach early Friday. The 42 Haitians and three
Jamaicans arrived in fishing boats, said Boca Raton police spokesman Jeff Kelly.
Some were captured at about 12:30 a.m. walking along State Road A1A; others were
captured on the beach near the 2800 block of North Ocean Boulevard. The
immigrants were mostly adults, but some were children, said Assistant Chief
Patrol Agent Dean Sinclair. After processing at the Border Patrol's West Palm
Beach office, the undocumented immigrants were scheduled to be transported to
the Krome Detention Center west of Miami, where they have a right to request
that their case be heard by an immigration judge or agree to be sent back to
their own countries, Sinclair said.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              49 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 26, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS JUMP FROM BOAT, CAPTURED ON SHORE IN SOUTH COUNTY

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


An international group of illegal immigrants jumped from a boat along the
southern Palm Beach County shore Sunday but were soon captured along State Road
A1A.

Meanwhile, their two Russian boat captains led various law enforcement officers
on an ocean chase before Palm Beach County sheriff's deputies nabbed the men in
their Boston Whaler, according to city police.

Delray Beach police officer Thomas Whatley was helping lifeguards with a
near-drowning about 5:20 p.m. when he saw the boat very close to shore.

Whatley said he saw 15 people jump ship and scramble to the beach.

Delray Beach and Highland Beach police officers caught the men on A1A and, after
holding them at the Delray Beach police station, turned them over to the United
States Border Patrol.

Those caught included 10 from India, four from Cuba and one from Poland.

The Russian captains and their boat were taken to the Boynton Beach Inlet, where
federal customs agents conducted a search.

The names of the captains and passengers were not available Sunday night. No one
was injured, authorities said.

Border Patrol agents were trying to piece together the illegal immigrants'
stories Sunday night, but the language barrier was making it difficult, one
agent said.

noah_bierman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer
, Customs officials search a 31-foot boat two Russian captains used to, bring 15
illegal immigrants to southern Palm Beach County.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              50 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 2001 Tuesday SOUTH EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 88 words


Federal authorities charged 25-year-old Edgar Cardet with smuggling on Sunday
after law enforcement officers captured 15 illegal immigrants along State Road
A1A in Delray Beach. The immigrants - nine from India, five from Cuba and one
from Poland - were taken to the Palm Beach County Jail and transferred to Krome
Detention Center west of Miami on Monday, U.S. Border Patrol agents said. Delray
Beach police said Sunday there were two Russian boat captains, but Border Patrol
agents said Monday Cardet is a U.S. citizen.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              51 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 7, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

17 IMMIGRANTS INTERCEPTED OFF BOYNTON SHORE

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 82 words


The U.S. Coast Guard held 17 illegal immigrants on a cutter offshore Friday
after capturing them aboard a boat 7 miles off the coast of Boynton Beach a day
earlier.

There were 11 Chinese, four Haitians, one Bahamian and one Jamaican aboard the
boat, said Dean Sinclair, assistant chief of the Miami sector for the U.S.
Border Patrol.

Border Patrol public information officer Art Bullock said all of those aboard
likely would be taken back to the Bahamas, where the trip originated.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              52 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 19, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

BUSH FORGETS HIS ROOTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 392 words


As governor of Texas, George W. Bush criticized the federal government for not
doing enough to help border states deal with the financial burdens of illegal
immigration. "If the federal government cannot do its job of enforcing the
borders," Gov. Bush said in 1995, "then it owes the states monies to pay for its
failure."

As president, Mr. Bush apparently believes the government is doing too much to
help the border states. His first budget calls for massive cuts to a federal
program that reimburses states and counties for incarcerating illegal immigrants
who break the law. President Bush wants to cut the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program from about $585 million to $265 million. California, with
more than 40 percent of the nation's illegal felons, will take the hardest hit,
with Arizona and, yes, Texas close behind.

Last year, Florida received about $27 million in SCAAP grants, with Martin,
Broward, Miami-Dade and Hillsborough counties among the top recipients; St.
Lucie County also benefited. Most of the money goes to jail violent offenders,
whom law-enforcement officials are reluctant to deport because of fears they
might return here. Most nonviolent criminals are extradited, but even then,
local governments must absorb the costs of temporary incarceration. Some nations
also refuse to take back their criminals.

Administration officials justify the cuts by saying the program does little to
reduce violent crime - which is a little like blaming the space program for
failing to reduce boating accidents. SCAAP never was meant to reduce crime. It
was intended to relieve the burden on cash-strapped local governments that for
no reason other than geography routinely find themselves dealing with a national
problem alone.

Somewhere during the trip from Austin, Texas, to Washington, D.C., the president
lost track of this distinction. President Bush wants tax relief to be the
centerpiece of his first year, and to make the mathematics work, he is willing
to use subtraction in columns where he once wanted to see only addition.
Residents along the U.S. southern border who get a federal tax cut will have to
give back some of it to state and local governments to pick up the federal
slack. President Bush is cutting taxes with one hand and passing the
government's responsibilities with the other.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              53 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 3, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL, YET INTEGRAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 402 words


Fourteen illegal immigrants from Mexico died in the Arizona desert last month,
their bodies nearly mummified by the heat. Since 1995, at least 500 Mexicans are
known to have perished this way. Many others disappear and are not found.

The border crossing has become so perilous that the Mexican government now
trains migrants in survival techniques for the trip and gives them medical kits
with snake-bite antidotes, anti-diarrhea medicine, dried meat and condoms. Lost
for real solutions, government treats the illegals like junkies in a free needle
program, hoping just to keep them alive.

Unfortunately, no one can give them an antidote for political contradictions. On
one hand, they are breaking the law by entering without U.S. consent. On the
other, U.S. employers welcome them as workers who fill jobs no one else wants.
These migrants are illegal and integral.

Through the first four months of 2001, the Border Patrol turned back about
750,000 would-be entrants, down about 25 percent compared with the same period
last year, and the lowest level in almost a decade. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service expects the decline to continue. Many economists believe
they know the reason. The U.S. economy has grown so dependent on the ready pool
of Mexican workers that they have become a measure of our economy - call it the
Illegal Migrant Indicator. Word of layoffs has moved quickly through what
amounts to a just-in-time labor market in Mexico.

Strategic enforcement, such as the Operation Gatekeeper program begun six years
ago, heightens the danger of border crossing. The Border Patrol concentrates its
resources in urban areas that have historically drawn the most traffic. Selected
interdiction drives illegal migrants to more treacherous remote routes and also
into the hands of unscrupulous smugglers who often abandon them.

President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox created a joint high-level
commission to review policies and find ways for the countries to cooperate
better. A more direct and sensible approach to bringing temporary workers is
essential. The governments should create a structure through which immigrants
can come, fill the job openings where needed, then return to their homes -
without overwhelming bureaucratic barriers or risky border crossings. Reforming
the U.S. guest-worker program has become quite literally a matter of life and
death.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              54 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 11, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

MEXICANS NEED JOBS, NOT SURVIVAL TRAINING

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 131 words


The May 27 article "Mexican survival course to help migrants cross into U.S.
illegally" states that Mexico's new government will train potential undocumented
immigrants on how to survive hazardous treks across the border.

Because of a recent incident in which 14 Mexicans died trying to cross the
border, officials now are trying to protect the people who come to the United
States seeking jobs. Mexico's government blamed the deaths on U.S. Border
Patrol's policy. Excuse me? Those agents were doing their job.

If the Mexican government wants to protect its people, it should set up border
patrols of its own and turn them back. If President Vicente Fox wants to help
his people, maybe he should get them some jobs that pay enough to live on.

CAROL HOENICH

Loxahatchee

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              55 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 23, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

KEEP LOOKING TO FUTURE ON MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 433 words


Hearing loud protests from conservative Republicans in Congress, the Bush
administration backed off its plan to give amnesty to about 3 million
undocumented Mexicans in the United States. Yet advancing the idea as far as it
went indicates how rapidly the thinking about U.S.-Mexico relations has evolved.

Proponents of new policy span an ideological cross section. Start with the
presidents of the two countries, who continue high-level talks on change and
profess a shared commitment to it. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., whose state claims
a sizable portion of the 2,100-mile border with Mexico, speaks of amnesty as the
acknowledgment of a new reality, rather than an invitation to wholesale illegal
immigration. A recent poll of U.S. residents living along the border found that
60 percent believed Mexicans deserved freer entry.

More and more Republicans understand that there can be a political payoff for
softening their view of amnesty. Granting millions of Mexicans permanent
residency aims them toward citizenship and pleases family members who are
American citizens. That holds the tantalizing prospect of bringing legions of
voters to the party and negating some of the Democrats' long-standing hold on
immigrants.

American trade unions made the same calculation. After decades of disparaging
immigrant workers for driving down wages, the AFL-CIO believes the practical
response is to sign them up. By supporting the Mexicans' call for residency,
unions hope to increase their numbers and reinvigorate their base. Unions don't
talk anymore of a North American Free Trade Agreement invasion of unskilled
Mexicans. They're called potential brothers and members.

Conservatives killed the amnesty plan, but another guest worker reincarnation
appears unstoppable. Finding two people who agree on what it should be is
another matter. One problem is that no one is sure how to implement such a
program retroactively. What about the 3 million Mexicans already here? Turning
them into guest workers is like inviting people already at the party. Another
problem is that the United States still hasn't found a formula that will permit
guest workers without also permitting employer abuses.

President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox want border crossings to be
more orderly and less dangerous. Both acknowledge the interdependence that has
grown between the two nations. This is the reality Sen. McCain and others
recognize but aren't sure how to address. Short of amnesty, some fair and
attainable plan for permanent residency is the essential ingredient to any
solution.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              56 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 16, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CONTROVERSY WAR OF WORDS

BYLINE: Eunice Moscoso, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The latest political battle over immigration has taken a semantic turn.

Proponents of granting residency to a large number of illegal workers in the
U.S. are talking a lot about "regularization," "legalization," and "earned
status adjustments."

Meanwhile, the word "amnesty" has completely dropped from use.

Government officials and immigrant advocates on both sides of the border have
been careful to avoid any mention of amnesty, which they say has negative and
misleading connotations to the public.

The White House is especially mindful to distance itself from the word, as it
works with Mexico on a plan that could eventually give U.S. residency to several
million Mexicans living here illegally.

"I oppose blanket amnesty," President Bush told reporters recently. "The
American people need to know that."

The problem may stem from the basic definition of the word, which according to
Merriam-Webster's Dictionary, is the act of an authority (as a government) by
which pardon is granted to a large group of individuals.

"It conveys a sense of forgiving someone for a crime," said Cecilia Munoz, vice
president for policy of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights
group.

In this case, that would be a misnomer, she says, because crossing the border
illegally is a civil offense, not a criminal one.

It also implies that there will be no qualifications or standards put in place
for inclusion, she said. That is why opponents like to use the term "blanket
amnesty," she said.

"Amnesty is the word you use when you're describing something that you want to
convey as too big and too broad and unacceptable. So it's a politically-charged
word for that reason."

La Raza is so concerned about the word "amnesty" that it advised Mexican
President Vicente Fox to refrain from using it, Raul Yzaguirre, president of the
group, said recently.

Meanwhile, some Republicans in Congress have no problem using the word because
they say it defines the situation perfectly.

"That is the term that describes this process of telling people that they
violated our laws but it's going to be OK," said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo. "Not
only will we not prosecute you, but we will reward you with a certain status."

In addition, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, has said that allowing illegal immigrants
to become residents would be "rewarding lawlessness."

Critics say that words like "regularization" are used to cloud the issue because
the public does not like the concept of amnesty.

"I think it's absolutely a concerted response to public opinion polls," said
John Keeley, a research associate with the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that favors limiting immigration.

While members of the American middle class show widespread support for legal
immigrants, they feel that amnesty is completely unfair, he said.

Tancredo said that he has seen polls where about 70 percent of respondents say
they are opposed to amnesty. "It changes dramatically when you talk about any
other aspect of the immigration problem. But amnesty in and of itself is a very
unpopular position," he said.

A March poll by The Christian Science Monitor showed that 44 percent of
Americans say they would oppose granting amnesty to illegal residents and 26
percent said they would support it.

But nearly 30 percent said they didn't know enough about the issue to decide.
The poll was based on telephone interviews with 909 adults.

The White House plan, which may take several months to complete, could mark the
biggest change in U.S. immigration law since 1986, when the U.S. granted legal
residence to about 3 million immigrants. It is likely to contain a guest-worker
program that proponents say would supply needed labor in the U.S. while reducing
dangerous crossings along the border.

The topic promises to take center stage when President Fox visits the White
House in early September.

Congressional Democrats, who have traditionally supported granting residence to
immigrants, have also weighed in on the issue.

Party leaders released a three-page set of immigration principles earlier this
month that talked about "adjusting the status" of immigrants and reuniting
families.

At a Capitol Hill press conference, Rep. Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, told
reporters that under the Democratic plan, immigrants who are longtime residents
of good moral character could qualify for residency.

"Eligible immigrants must earn legalization," he said. "This is far from a
broad, blanket amnesty."

eunicem@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              57 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 21, 2001 Tuesday SOUTH EDITION

BOCA RATON

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 154 words


BOCA RATON - Border Patrol agents arrested 16 illegal immigrants from the
Caribbean after the group landed in a speed boat near Spanish River Boulevard
late Sunday, according to a Border Patrol spokesman. A resident who spotted the
boat alerted Boca Police about 10:34 p.m., said Art Bullock, Border Patrol agent
in charge of the West Palm Beach station. Bullock said agents arrested seven
women and nine men found in the area and took them to Krome Detention Center in
Miami. He said they failed to locate the smuggler who brought the immigrants -
from Haiti, Jamaica and the Bahamas - to Florida from Freeport. Three or four
immigrants escaped arrest.

BOCA RATON - The 74-year-old man who died Sunday afternoon in a fire at 501 N.E.
16th St. was Frederick Summers Sr., according to city fire-rescue spokesman Lt.
Frank Montilli. A match or cigarette ignited an armchair in Summers' living
room, Montilli said.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              58 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 6, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

U.S. HAS ENOUGH IMMIGRANTS WITHOUT ADMITTING ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 340 words


The Aug. 26 Opinion article "Border tightrope: Migration needs bipartisan
solution," by Thomas F. McLarty III and Bill Richardson, contradicts the facts,
history and even itself.

This pro-amnesty article makes the point that we need to increase immigration to
sustain economic growth because of a declining population of workers. Where are
the two writers getting their information? Obviously not from the 2000 Census.
America is one of the fastest-growing countries in the world.

Mostly because of massive legal immigration, America has added 80 million people
since 1970. The population will be more than 400 million by 2050.

The article also talks about the political point of view. One wonders how low
our system has gone when preservation of political careers is such a big concern
and the quality of life of present citizens is not even worth mentioning. We do
not need more voters in this country; we need more representation of voters we
have.

The article advocates making "legal status available to illegal aliens who pay
taxes." How can an "undocumented worker" pay taxes? Which brings up the issue of
"living legally in every way except for possessing a green card." Illegal aliens
are illegal not only because they lack a work permit but because they entered
and are staying in this country illegally.

Another point of contradiction is "The goals are to shut off the engine of
illegal immigration." This statement misleads one to think that the solution to
illegal immigration is to eliminate the differences between wealthy and poor
countries. What is this, the latest rationale for communism in the new
millennium?

I do not think we can change the way the world is today, i.e., Third World
populations are outgrowing their economies, and standards of living are "one
step forward and three steps back." Mexico's population grew from 44 million to
more than 100 million in 30 years. Third World population explosion is the real
"engine of illegal immigration" and poverty.

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              59 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 8, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

LEGALIZATION OF IMMIGRANTS URGED

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


One day after President Vicente Fox of Mexico asked Congress to legalize
millions of illegal immigrants, an unusual alliance of labor and business went
to Capitol Hill on Friday to urge action on the proposal.

But at a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee, lawmakers also warned that
public opposition could make a large-scale amnesty program difficult to enact.

AFL-CIO President John Sweeney told the hearing that giving legal status would
protect the rights of illegal workers and allow them to unionize.

Sitting beside him, U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue spoke for
employers in calling for legalizing current workers and opening the door to more
immigrants. He said that loss of the illegal work force would "cripple" the
economy, even amid the current rise in unemployment.

"I believe the White House is dragging its feet a little more than they should,"
Donohue said of President Bush's delay in proposing broad legalization.

Immigration experts at the hearing acknowledged public objections to blanket
amnesty to illegal immigrants and suggested that the government set up a process
for newcomers to earn legal status.

Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., told the panel that he has found "substantial
resistance" among his constituents and within his state's labor unions to
granting legal status to illegal immigrants.

Another committee member, Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., said that voters have been
calling his office to object.

The Senate hearing included no opponents of the legalization plan, which could
potentially include 8.5 million estimated illegal immigrants, if extended to
both Mexicans and those from other nations.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              60 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 9, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ON ISSUES OF THE BORDER, FOX ISN'T ON THE FENCE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 434 words


Before he asked on Wednesday, Mexican President Vicente Fox knew he could not
get an agreement with the United States on migration by the end of this year. He
also knew that if he didn't ask, he might not get one by the end of his term in
2006.

To understand how much the U.S. has depended on illegal immigrant labor from
Mexico, one expert on the subject suggested, imagine a hotel in Colorado where
guests are making their own beds, cleaning their own toilets and serving their
own breakfasts. The 1990s boom might not have been possible without immigrants,
legal and otherwise, to perform menial jobs. They "live in the shadows,"
however, as one Mexican official put it, wanted but unwanted.

Mexico seeks a new arrangement to provide for orderly legal migration on both
sides of the border and legal status for undocumented Mexicans who have come
north. President Bush, who as a former governor of Texas understands the need to
raise Mexico's foreign-policy status, seemed ready to work with Mr. Fox until
some Republicans lawmakers complained about giving "amnesty" to people whom this
country sees as criminals and Mexico sees as breadwinners. The slowing economy
put another drag on the sensitive issue. The president then began lowering
expectations for last week's summit.

Predictably, the communique from the two presidents stressed other points:
cooperation on trade, joint efforts to fight drug smuggling, agreements on food
safety and energy, discussions on the water-supply treaty. On migration, Mr.
Bush and Mr. Fox "renewed their commitment to forging new and realistic
approaches to migration to ensure it is safe, orderly, legal and dignified, and
agreed on the framework within which this ongoing effort is based."

Mr. Bush understands that closing the 2,000-mile border is unrealistic and
self-defeating. His wish to thus manage the border is a notable advancement.
That new attitude alone, however, will not be enough. New laws are necessary to
recognize the reality of our relationship with what has become the 12th-largest
economy in the world. New laws will require consent from Congress and acceptance
by the public. Mr. Bush correctly began that campaign last week by saying that
any change in status for Mexican immigrants would include an emphasis on
learning English.

The president seems unconcerned about close relationships with Europe or Russia.
He has distanced himself from the Middle East and Africa. He hasn't talked of
bailing out Argentina. That leaves Mexico for a priority. Mr. Fox may want
something too quickly, but what he wants makes sense.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              61 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 26, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

MAKE THE BORDER ORDERLY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 417 words


At least 16 of the 19 hijackers responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks received
formal invitations from the United States government to come here. They weren't
stowaways, border runners or illegal aliens. They didn't break into the country.
They entered the U.S. on temporary visas as students, tourists or professionals,
then lost themselves in the population until resurfacing as mass murderers.

When their visas expired or they violated conditions for staying here, the
government did nothing. The Immigration and Naturalization Service had no record
of their movement, no way to track them and no inclination even to try. Until
the 1970s, the INS required foreign residents to register their whereabouts
annually but, citing cost and record-keeping problems, officials discontinued
that practice. Last year, the United States handed out about 200,000 temporary
visas to people from nations with terrorist links - Iran, Saudi Arabia,
Pakistan, Egypt - and the government today cannot say for certain how many of
them are still here, much less where they may be living.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that favors tighter
restrictions on borders, believes that a computerized system to track
immigrants' entries and exits is no longer the technological obstacle it was 25
years ago. Only a lack of will and money has prevented the country from
developing one. The CIS supports reinstating periodic check-in requirements for
foreigners, and turning the State Department's overseas visa officers into
"America's other border patrol" by giving them more time, training and authority
to screen applicants in their homelands.

Congress might have adopted these changes years ago were it not for its mounting
political preoccupation with the Mexican border. Keeping Mexicans from sneaking
across the Rio Grande has been a higher priority for the INS than screening
potential terrorists arriving from the Middle East. Resources that should have
gone to creating the entry-exit database went instead to the low-end but
politically expedient problem of curbing the flow of minimum-wage workers from
the south.

The recent attacks halted promising talks between the United States and Mexico
on a feasible system for temporary economic migration. Part of a solution for
bringing order to that border is the same database that would help deter
terrorists. The INS has to start monitoring immigrants who get visas, and
tracking with technology is the essential first step.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              62 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 30, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

TIME, IDS OF ESSENCE TO LOCATE ALL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 97 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the United States is at least 7 million to 8
million, according to the admittedly flawed 2000 U.S. Census. These are
undocumented immigrants who are not citizens, and their status cannot be
determined accurately. Once visas expire, the U.S. lacks the means to deport
people it does not know exist within our borders, nor their whereabouts.

And because of the events of Sept. 11, there is now less employer demand, and
they compete with American citizens for jobs. America needs a national ID
system, now.

BILL ARNOLD

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              63 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 5, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

WHY SHOULD U.S. GIVE ALIENS AMNESTY TO HELP MEXICO?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 195 words


About the Nov. 26 editorial "Close the right border": It is amazing that there
are "an estimated 8.5 million undocumented workers, most of them Mexicans," as
the editorial stated. If a legal status would be granted to them today, tomorrow
there would be 20 million more Mexicans here, and, of course, the warmhearted
activists would start lobbying for a right to family reunification, in which
case you can multiply the number of Mexican residents in the United States by
five. I don't understand why the U.S. needs to have more immigrants from Mexico.

The editorial also states, without reasoning, that "President Fox not only
deserves U.S. support, he needs it, as he faces recession and long-festering
social problems within his country." Mexico is not an exception; many countries
are experiencing the same situation: recession and social problems. I am pretty
sure that in his campaign for the presidency, Vicente Fox outlined his plan to
deal with these issues. I daresay he may not have planned to send all the
Mexicans to our country to reduce Mexico's poverty.

It would be healthy to stop illegal immigration now.

CARLOS J. BILLA

Highland Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              64 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 11, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLING RING USING BUS BUSINESS CRACKED, U.S. SAYS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal authorities announced Monday that they have cracked a smuggling ring
that used a California bus company to shuttle thousands of illegal aliens from
the Mexican border to America's interior.

Golden State Transportation, a Los Angeles-based bus company owned by a
subsidiary of Greyhound Lines Inc., is described as a smugglers' express in
indictments made public by the Justice Department after a two-year investigation
dubbed Operation Great Basin.

The documents in a 39-count indictment unsealed Monday charge that 32 bus
company employees, including Golden State's top officials, conspired with
smugglers to transport 50 to 300 illegal aliens a day, seven days a week.

"It's a very inhumane, a very dangerous, a very ugly kind of business,"
Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner James Ziglar said. He said the
government first heard about the operation in 1996 and four years later launched
a probe that began in Arizona and eventually spread to California, Texas,
Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Washington state.

Ziglar, who only recently took over at INS, defended the lengthy investigation,
saying it required two years to build the case against the company.

The action was the second immigration law enforcement action announced in less
than a week. Last Wednesday, Ziglar said INS would begin turning over to the
FBI's criminal fugitive list the names of 314,000 aliens who have been ordered
deported but cannot be found.

"I can tell you that in the very near term, you're going to hear about a lot of
other activities from the INS in terms of our interior enforcement activities,"
said Ziglar, who joined Attorney General John Ashcroft in disclosing the alien
smuggling indictments.

"The terrorist attacks of September 11 remind Americans in the most painful way
of the need to defend our borders while keeping them open to peaceful,
freedom-loving people," Ashcroft said. "Today's charges prove that we can
achieve this balance in our immigration policy."

The INS move comes after years of neglect, said Peter Nunez, a former U.S.
attorney for San Diego, who has criticized the agency for failing to stop alien
smugglers working inside the country.

"In the '70s and '80s it was a high priority," he said. "Beginning in the late
'80s and '90s, the emphasis on smuggling was significantly reduced."

Now, said Nunez, there are so many smuggling rings that "it's almost like cherry
picking" to crack what appears to be a big case.

Roger Mora, operations manager for Golden State in Los Angeles, declined to
comment on the charges.

Wade Gates, a spokesman for Sistemas Internacional, said he hadn't seen the
indictment.

"We haven't been contacted by the Justice Department," Gates said. "We have no
day-to-day involvement in Golden State."

Lynn Brown, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based Greyhound, said the Los Angeles-based
regional company operated independently. "Today's announcement did come as a
surprise to us," she said, adding that the Justice Department had not contacted
Greyhound.

"If we are contacted, we will cooperate," she said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              65 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 14, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

INS NOT INSPIRING MUCH CONFIDENCE IN THE SYSTEM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 133 words


After reading "Florida law enforcers want U.S. immigration records" (Dec. 10)
and "Smuggling ring using bus business cracked, U.S. says" (Dec. 11), one has to
wonder what side the INS represents.

The first article reveals that INS officials will not turn over immigration
records of foreigners who remain in the country with expired visas, saying local
authorities do not have the authority to detain someone just because he is in
this country illegally. What part of the word illegal don't they understand?

The second article states that the INS cracked a smuggling ring that was
transporting 50 to 300 illegal aliens every day. The bad news is that it took a
total of six years.

We need an agency and a system to track all illegal aliens at all times.

JON C. HOUCK

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              66 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 19, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

COURTS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 314 words


FORT LAUDERDALE - A federal grand jury charged two West Palm Beach men with
harboring and hiring 24 illegal immigrants to work at the King Buffet Chinese
restaurant on Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard and the King Super Buffet in
Lauderhill. Zeng C. Huang, 31, and Ai Fa Yang, 34, of 500 N. Congress Ave,
Apartment K70, face multiple counts of harboring illegal immigrants. Each count
carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers arrested Huang Jan. 9. They found the illegal immigrants working in the
restaurants and living in filthy conditions at the Congress Avenue apartment and
a house in Sunrise. Huang is in federal custody. Yang is to surrender on
Tuesday.

A Broward circuit judge's Thursday ruling that certified a class-action lawsuit
in the citrus canker eradication battle will be appealed by the Florida
Department of Agriculture, an attorney for the department said Friday. Judge J.
Leonard Fleet ruled that the Miami-Dade and Broward county homeowners bringing
the lawsuit constitute a class because they share the same issue, the
destruction of citrus trees within 1,900 feet of trees infected with citrus
canker. Wes Parsons, attorney for the department and a partner at Adorno & Zeder
in Miami, said the ruling does not apply to Palm Beach County homeowners because
they were not a part of the lawsuit.

WEST PALM BEACH - A lawyer for Felix Alvarez is asking a judge to dismiss
multiple charges of unlicensed practice of osteopathic medicine against the
masquerading doctor who talked his way onto the sheriff's team that protects
visiting dignitaries. In the motion, Alvarez's lawyer, Sam Montesino, argues
that there is no law stopping a person from providing any service as long as he
is under direct supervision of a licensed physician. Circuit Judge Hubert
Lindsey will hear arguments Feb. 22, Montesino said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              67 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 1, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

ACT ON KROME DETAINEES,

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 628 words


In the stormy days after Sept. 11, the federal government arrested and detained
about 1,200 people of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent, using minor
immigration violations or material witness warrants as grounds to hold them.
Most were young Muslim men.

Americans accepted the wide-net roundup as a regrettable yet necessary response
to the terrorist threat. A nation rallying for war and smarting from massive
loss of life considered sweeping detentions an unavoidable consequence of
self-defense. Due process became the first casualty of Sept. 12. Hundreds were
swept from their living rooms to solitary confinement without hearings. In the
four months since the attacks, the government has been too slow to sort through
what its wide net picked up. As many as 500 detainees still may be in custody,
most in Florida, New York and New Jersey. Attorney General John Ashcroft says
the number is 460. Defense attorneys and human rights groups say it's closer to
600. The truth likely is in between.

Certainly, the number is too high. The government has had time enough to
investigate all the detainees and must make its case for holding them longer.
The government should charge and prosecute them, deport them for immigration
violations, produce compelling evidence of why they should stay in custody, or
release them. As the fog of Sept. 11 lifts, federal authorities must let the
courts decide the detainees' fate.

The Post this week reported that federal officials are holding at least 50
Middle Eastern and South Asian men at the Krome Service Processing Center near
Miami. The FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested most on visa
violations that the government routinely ignored before declaring war on
terrorism. Such rules went unenforced until last year, when the game abruptly
changed. The government is playing political catch-up. Selective enforcement is
the convenient substitute for the hard work of identifying real threats with
real evidence and implementing real immigration reforms.

The Census Bureau believes that 8.7 million foreigners are in the United States
illegally. About 115,000 are from the Middle East, and most have overstayed
visas. Many of the detainees at Krome have children who were born here and are
U.S. citizens. Officials are justifiably concerned about the consequences of
releasing a genuine terrorist, but the government isn't making the country safer
by imprisoning indefinitely hundreds of foreigners who aren't.

The long-overdue overhaul of U.S. immigration policy poses a challenge.
President Bush wants to bolster border security, improve tracking of visitors
and enforce visas. He proposes a $1.2 billion increase for the INS, $619 million
more for the Customs Service and $282 million more for the Coast Guard. Life
will get tougher for smugglers of drugs, weapons and illegal immigrants. An
important part of border control is agreement with Mexico on a functional
guest-worker program. Mexicans who want to come here and fill essential jobs,
then return home, should have the legal means to do so. Technological advances
will make computer tracking more feasible, but employers and educators must
assist the INS. Universities that profit from tuitions of foreign students have
to start taking attendance.

None of this is easy, inexpensive or foolproof, but neither is requiring the
airlines to scan all baggage. The campaign against terrorism comes with
extraordinary demands. At the core of it is the search for justice. The next
step on the domestic front must be fair and expeditious treatment for the
detainees snagged in the September dragnet. Foreigners don't have citizens'
rights, but, as Americans always have understood, their human rights are
inalienable.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              68 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 22, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

MAKE THE ILLEGALS INTO LEGAL TEMPS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 697 words


President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox are scheduled to meet in
Monterrey, Mexico, a month from today, during the United Nations-sponsored
International Conference for Development.

One way or the other, because of what is decided or what isn't, the meeting
promises to be the most significant immigration event of the year.

Before the terrorist attacks, the idea of granting some form of legal status to
millions of undocumented Mexican immigrants was at the forefront of negotiations
between the two leaders. When the two presidents met last summer, even sweeping
amnesty proposals were on the table. Since the attacks, President Bush has made
a priority of border control and asked Congress for $380 million to construct an
entry-exit system that would track millions of border crossings each year.

The politics of immigration has changed dramatically in recent months, but the
realities haven't. The U.S. economy, even in recession, continues to rely on the
steady stream of Mexican workers who fill essential low-paying jobs. Messrs Bush
and Fox will try to agree on a way to allow them to come here legally and then
return home.

Solving the Mexican migration problem clears the deck for work on more serious
security issues. Proponents and opponents of legal status for Mexicans often end
up using the same argument. The Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington-based group favoring tighter immigration controls, opposes legalizing
Mexicans because doing so would not enhance security, as they are not a threat
to the United States. The National Immigration Forum, a Washington group that
favors legalization, says that's precisely the reason it should happen.

The magnitude of current migration is remarkable. Mexico's National Population
Council reports that of the 8 million Mexicans living in the United States,
about 3 million crossed the border illegally. The council found that the ratio
of migrants who obtained work permits for visas to come here legally fell from
50 percent of all migrants between 1993 and 1997 to just 38 percent in 2000.
Mexican workers send money to 1.25 million households in their homeland, the
remittances averaging about $3,500 per year. For 40 percent of those households,
it is the only source of income.

Surveys show that most Mexican migrants - 70 percent or more - do not intend to
stay in the United States permanently. Expansion of a guest-worker program,
which also was on the table last summer, has the support of many labor unions,
religious groups and immigrant advocates. U.S. employers, especially in the
agriculture and service industries, would benefit from the access to a stable
pool of available workers, and border police would have fewer illegals to chase.

Technological advances can make tracking guest workers easier. Since 1996, the
State Department has been reissuing Mexican border crossing cards with
electronic "laser visas" that feature fingerprints and data encrypted in
magnetic strips. The computerized cards became mandatory in October.

Past guest-worker programs failed both employers and employees. Bad laws
codified deplorable working conditions, low pay and unfair treatment, which gave
workers no incentive to play by the rules. For the first time, immigrant
advocates feel optimistic about getting guest-worker legislation they can
support, and employers seem more willing than ever to offer concessions in
exchange for a reliable work force.

The flow of migrants from the south will vary inversely with the growth of the
Mexican economy. As the peso rises in valuation against the dollar, fewer
Mexicans will have reason to leave home. Presidents Bush and Fox can make great
gains on the immigration problem by reinforcing trading and economic ties
between the nations.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service faces a gargantuan challenge in
responding to the nation's post-Sept. 11 call to monitor foreigners more
closely. A new approach to Mexican migration is the critical yet accessible
first step on the long journey toward reform.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              69 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  July 8, 2002 Monday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FUTURE OF BRAIN-DAMAGED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT DEBATED

BYLINE: Pat Moore, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: STUART


Martin Memorial Hospital officials want to send a Guatemalan man with severe
brain damage to his homeland, but his court-appointed attorney fears the trip to
a country unable to care for his injury will kill him.

"It's basically a one-way ticket to certain death," attorney Michael Banks said
of the hospital's efforts to send Luis Alberto Jimenez, 30, to a rehabilitation
center in his native country.

Jimenez, who lived in Indiantown when he nearly died in a head-on crash 2 1/2
years ago, has racked up nearly $900,000 in hospital bills - money Medicaid will
not pay because he is not a citizen of the United States, court records state.

"We can't house him here forever," hospital attorney, Linda Hake, said. "That's
not doing him any good."

But no other hospital or nursing home capable of providing the care he needs
will take him because he is an illegal immigrant, and therefore, ineligible for
Medicaid.

"It's our immigration policy in this country," Hake said. "We tend to look the
other way while they're over here picking our fruit and mowing our lawns."

But when Jimenez landed in Martin Memorial Hospital after the Feb. 28, 2000,
crash, Medicaid paid about $78,600 for emergency services. But the government
will not pay any more for an illegal immigrant, court records state.

Banks described Jimenez as a grown man who was left with the mentality of a
3-year-old, wears diapers and needs extensive treatment, including physical
therapy.

But hospital officials claim the hospital is providing a higher level of care
than Jimenez now requires.

"As a patient in Martin Memorial, (Jimenez) is currently occupying invaluable
bed space and utilizing precious nursing and medical staff resources that could
otherwise be devoted to patients truly needing the attention of an acute care
setting," Charlotte Spacek, the hospital's case management director, stated in
court records.

The hospital has asked a Martin County circuit judge to require Jimenez's
cousin-by-marriage and court-appointed guardian, Montejo Gaspar Montejo, to
allow for Jimenez's return to Guatemala.

Jimenez's stay in the hospital setting is unjustified and constitutes an undue
burden on the county's only hospital, court records state.

"Yes, we can provide his physical therapy, but we can't provide him his native
language, his food, his customs and his roommate," Hake said. "He has a new
roommate here every three to five days. He needs a permanent treatment
facility."

And, the hospital's health care staff reports Jimenez frequently says he wants
to "go home" to be with his family and children in Guatemala.

"It's like asking a 3-year-old child where he wants to go," Banks countered. "He
can't think on his own. One moment he thinks he's in Guatemala with his mother.
Another moment he thinks he and she are both in the United States."

Banks, who represents Jimenez's guardian for free, said he fears Jimenez would
not receive adequate care at a rehabilitation center in Guatemala, a country
with socialized medicine.

Banks said he wouldn't oppose transferring Jimenez to a hospital in Guatemala if
he would receive one-on-one care with some sort of governmental oversight
similar to the U.S.'s court system that monitors wards of the state.

"I've been told by people who live in Guatemala that he'll probably be kicked
out of a hospital there within a week," he said.

Cristy Andrino, the Guatemalan vice-consulate in Miami, said a convalescent
hospital in Antigua, Guatemala, may be willing to care for Jimenez.

Hake said hospital officials are trying to investigate the type of care that the
hospital provides and they have asked U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach,
for help.

"We want to know if there is socialized medicine that will care for him or if
he'll be thrown out on the street once he gets there," Hake said.

Banks said he hopes Jimenez can remain at Martin Memorial or a qualified health
care facility in this country.

"If we try to take care of his needs in this country, there is an outside chance
he could improve enough to become a functional person again.

"It's sad," he said. "Sending him to be near his family could be the ultimate
cause of his death."

pat_moore@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), Luis Alberto Jimenez (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              70 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 30, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS COSTING HOSPITALS 'POSSIBLY BILLIONS'

BYLINE: By Julia Malone Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In Phoenix, some emergency rooms have shut down or reduced services. In Texas,
hospitals have passed along higher costs to local taxpayers. And in Florida, a
Martin County hospital is stuck with nearly $1.5 million in unpaid expenses for
just two patients.

Those are some of the effects hospitals trace to illegal immigrants, who arrive
at their facilities with serious illnesses and no means to pay for care.

"It goes into the millions of dollars - possibly billions," said Carla Luggiero,
a Washington lobbyist for the American Hospital Association. Even so, she said
that hospitals have no exact count of the cost because they do not collect data
on the legal status of patients.

Under federal law, hospitals are required to provide care to anyone who shows up
with a life-threatening condition, regardless of ability to pay or legal status.
If the patient is an illegal immigrant, the U.S. government provides only
limited reimbursement.

Amid growing "uncompensated" costs to hospitals, the National Association of
Counties recently conducted a survey of 42 counties, and 29 cited recent
immigration, legal and illegal, as one reason.

The problem, once concentrated in border states like Texas and California, is
now expanding, Luggiero said. She said that it has spread to New York, Illinois,
North Carolina and, especially, to Florida.

Florida has come into the spotlight in part because of cases such as Luis
Alberto Jimenez, a 30-year-old Guatemalan who sustained a brain injury two years
ago in an automobile accident.

Jimenez, an illegal immigrant with no money and no local family, has spent the
last two years living at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart. Caring for him has
cost more than $900,000 so far, and the bill goes up $500 each day, said
Patricia Austin, the hospital's spokeswoman.

Martin Memorial has found a rehab facility in Guatemala that is willing to take
Jimenez, but the hospital is still negotiating with the patient's
court-appointed attorney, who has resisted the move. If an agreement is reached,
the hospital will still have to send a nurse to accompany him on the trip,
Austin said.

Michael Banks, Jimenez's attorney, says nothing has changed. "The ball is in the
hospital's court," he said Monday.

He has asked the hospital to put Jimenez in a rehabilitation center in the
United States, which he claims would be 10 times cheaper than keeping him in the
hospital room.

He contends the government facilities in Guatemala are not capable of providing
the quality of care his client needs, but there are private facilities in that
country that would qualify.

Earlier, a 57-year-old Jamaican spent 17 months at the same hospital, running up
a bill of about $500,000. He was sent to a facility in his home country.

The two cases combined took a big bite out of the hospital's charitable fund,
which was budgeted at $29 million last year.

St. Mary's Medical Center in West Palm Beach treats one or two illegal
immigrants a week. "It is a significant problem," said St. Mary's spokesman Don
Chester. He said illegal immigrants run up thousands of dollars in bills, though
he could not provide specifics.

A spokeswoman for Delray Medical Center says the hospital treats about 75
illegal immigrants a month.

Martin Memorial's Austin said the local hospital communities must pick up the
tab under the current setup.

"Each hospital is pretty much left to their own devices as to how to cope with
this problem," Austin said. She said her hospital would deal with it by cutting
costs and increasing fund-raising efforts.

Her hospital has also fought back by pressuring Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm
Beach, to take up the issue.

Foley has study initiated

Foley has taken the approach of finding out how much the health care costs and
then trying to collect the fees by working with the State Department to deduct
them from any foreign aid going to the home country of the alien.

Foley has not drafted any legislation. He has convinced the U.S. General
Accounting Office to conduct what could be the most comprehensive study of the
problem, an effort that could take several months.

That may not be easy, since hospitals as a rule don't keep track of who's an
illegal resident. Ann Ward, spokeswoman for the Texas Hospital Association, said
that most don't ask.

"We have a large number of folks who are undocumented," said Conchita
Ruiz-Topinka, spokeswoman for Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. "If they can
prove they live in Miami-Dade - regardless of immigration status - we take care
of them. I don't think we know how many of the indigent we serve are
undocumented."

She said that the hospital does ask if a patient is a Cuban or Haitian, since
that could mean that their expenses will be underwritten by the federal refugee
program. But even that has brought protests from some community groups,
Ruiz-Topinka said.

Ward of the Texas Hospital Association reported a similar situation. "We don't
keep track," she said. "A lot of hospitals feel that you cannot discriminate if
they're not a legal resident."

Lawmakers in Congress have introduced a range of bills dealing with the problem.
Sens. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., and John McCain, R-Ariz., recently proposed
Medicaid reimbursement for some medical care, including kidney dialysis and
chemotherapy as well as prenatal care for illegal residents.

Sen. John Kyl and Rep. Jim Kolbe, both Arizona Republicans, have also proposed
forms of federal assistance to hard-hit border areas.

However, the legislation does not appear to be headed toward passage soon.

Post staff writers Pat Moore and Phil Galewitz contributed to this story.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W); 1. Luis Alberto Jimenez 2. Patricia Austin (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              71 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 4, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

EUROPE SEEKS WAY TO TIGHTEN ITS BORDERS

BYLINE: By Don Melvin Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: TURIN, ITALY


When Western European politicians talk about the problem of illegal immigration,
Italy is often Exhibit A.

Its 4,700 miles of coast are virtually impossible to patrol effectively. Its
proximity to North Africa and Eastern Europe makes it a tempting point of entry
for immigrants seeking jobs in the prosperous countries of the European Union.

And while it is difficult to count immigrants who have no papers, experts say
the number coming into Italy is increasing every year.

The government of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, a coalition that includes
the strongly anti-immigration Northern League party, has worked to tighten the
rules governing legal immigration - allowing people to enter the country only if
they have a valid work contract. And Italy has said it will use its term as
president of the European Union in 2003 to put forward a "secure frontiers" plan
for the entire 15-nation union.

The issue has resonance as anti-immigration politics have swept over Europe, and
particularly as the EU contemplates a significant expansion. Ten countries -
Cyprus, Malta, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Latvia,
Estonia and Lithuania - are expected to join in 2004.

The Sept. 11 attacks in America, and the vulnerability of open societies to
stealthy terror networks like Al-Qaeda, has further heightened the debate over
border controls and immigration policy.

With the European Union forging closer ties between members, borders inside the
union are less closely monitored. Once an immigrant manages to enter one EU
country, he or she has effectively gained entry to them all.

And if the current union is unable to control its borders, European politicians
wonder, how will an expanded union that incorporates poorer, less well-organized
countries do any better?

Few gain citizenship

Estimates from the European Commission say there are about 3 million illegal
immigrants in the European Union, with 500,000 new arrivals each year. The total
population of the EU countries is about 370 million.

But experts who study the issue say that Italy's efforts to clamp down have
failed to stem the tide of immigration and instead have only served to make
immigrants more vulnerable to exploitation.

"You have to understand that Italy has no naturalization law," said Francesco
Ciafaloni of the Institute for Economic and Social Research in Turin.
"Practically no one becomes a citizen."

The irony, say those who work with immigrants, is that Italy, though it pursues
a policy of increasing restrictions, badly needs the immigrants for its labor
force. Some estimates put the number of legal and undocumented immigrants in the
country at 1.6 million. Italy has a population of 57.6 million people.

Without immigration, the population of the country would be in decline. The
birth rate in Italy is 1.0 children per woman - half the rate necessary to
sustain a stable population.

And northern Italy, in particular, has a full-employment economy.

The result, immigrants say, is a situation in which they are sometimes made to
feel unwelcome even though their work is needed.

The situation has echoes in the United States, where Mexicans without work
permits are sometimes unwelcome even as they perform tasks - such as working in
chicken processing plants or harvesting fruits and vegetables - that many
American citizens will not do.

Aid workers argue that the Italian government, while talking tough, actually
tolerates immigration. That will continue to be the case, Ciafaloni predicted.

"They will not go head to head against industry," which needs the workers to
fill factories and harvest crops, he said.

dmelvin@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              72 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 9, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

WHO CARES IF ILLEGALS ENTER 'SAFELY'? STOP THEM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 101 words


About Ruben Navarrette Jr.'s Aug. 5 column "Immigrants are people, not cargo":
It appears that Mr. Navarrette believes that officials should escort illegal
immigrants across the border in limousines.

They are illegally entering our country seeking a better life. If they desire
safety, they should go through the process of obtaining legal documents to enter
the United States; if they choose to enter illegally, they must expect the risk
of sickness or death.

There is no such thing as "safely" transporting someone illegally to this
country, and why should there be?

JEAN MILLAR

Hobe Sound

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor.

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              73 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 10, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

FOLEY IDEA ON FOREIGN AID AN INCENTIVE TO IMMIGRATE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 140 words


The idea put forward by Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, to deduct the
health-care costs of illegal aliens from foreign aid going to their home
countries ("Hospitals: Illegal immigrants costly," July 30) would increase the
problem, not fix it. The health-care cost deduction obviously would shrink
foreign aid, making would-be immigrants' home governments even less able to
handle public services such as health care.

With other countries' health-care systems getting worse, the appeal of flight to
the United States would be even greater than before. If Congressman Foley just
wants to spend more taxpayers' money pursuing ineffectual ideas, he will find
his present course quite successful. But if he truly wants to fix the problem,
he needs to come up with a better, more thought-out plan.

ALEXANDER C. IVES

Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              74 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 12, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

DEAD ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS VICTIMS OF OWN DECISION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 126 words


I take issue with the Aug. 5 Op-Ed article "Immigrants are people, not cargo"
because Ruben Navarrette Jr.'s underlying assumption throughout the article is
his position that the people in the cargo trailer are victims of circumstances
and this country's immigration policies.

The truth, first and foremost, is that they are illegal aliens. They chose to
cross the U.S. border and break our laws and illegally travel to different
American cities. They chose to pay these two truck drivers to help them break
our laws. They climbed into the truck of their own free will; nobody made them.
They are not victims. If they would have stayed home, they would be alive today
to apply for legal visas to come to America.

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LetterLetters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              75 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 6, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH PLAN TO FAVOR MEXICAN IDS FACES SCRUTINY

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT and PILAR ULIBARRI Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


It seemed like a good idea for a city of immigrants.

The Lake Worth City Commission voted this week to help out its Mexican
constituents by officially recognizing ID cards issued by the Mexican
government.

It tentatively passed an innocuous-sounding 35-word ordinance that would require
police, libraries and city utilities to consider photo IDs issued by Mexican
consulates "a valid piece of identification."

But it quickly spawned dissent in this multicultural city where thousands of
illegal immigrants have settled over the past decade. Some citizens - and the
police - fear that the city's sanctioning of the consular IDs will encourage
many more to join them.

The Lake Worth law would be the first of its kind in Florida. If it passes Sept.
17, immigrant groups plan to lobby officials in West Palm Beach, Greenacres and
elsewhere in the state to adopt similar measures.

Tuesday, more than 100 Mexicans, including Luz Elena Banos, general
representative of the Mexican Consulate, filled commission chambers in support
of the cards. The cards have been recognized by 88 cities nationwide - including
Chicago, Los Angeles and Houston - but none in Florida. Opponents argue that it
could encourage more illegal immigration and that some cardholders would attempt
to use the IDs as proof of legal residency.

One city commissioner suggested Thursday he could be breaking federal law by
aiding and abetting illegal immigrants who might use the cards to secure city
services.

"I don't want to be doing 10 years for this," said Commissioner Scott Maxwell,
who based his opinion on employment laws that forbid the hiring of illegal
immigrants. But Maxwell voted for the ordinance Tuesday.

"I passed it out of respect," he said. "It was out of respect for the over 100
new faces in the room, for the state representative and for the Mexican
government."

Mayor Rodney Romano, who introduced the ordinance, said he's just trying to help
residents of his city.

"Some people may think so, but we are not condoning illegal immigrants," Romano
said. U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials "are the ones who
are choosing not to do anything about it."

Supporters said the IDs would help the city's 2,400 Mexican residents apply for
utility service, enroll children in school and open bank accounts and cash
checks without having to show a birth certificate or passport. The cards cannot
be used to obtain driver licenses or qualify for social services.

Police Chief Bill Smith advised city officials to reject the ordinance because
the consular cards haven't been recognized by the U.S. government or the state
of Florida.

"We do not believe we are in a position to make decisions as to the authenticity
or reliability of documents issued by a foreign government," Smith said in a
letter to City Manager Wendy Newmyer.

The ID cards are issued only to those who can present to Mexican consulates
their birth certificates or other documents that show they are Mexicans, said
Rep. Susan Bucher, D-Lantana, who supports the IDs.

"These people will have to go through more security checks, holograms and seals
than our own driver license has," Bucher said. "You can't just go into a Mexican
consulate and walk out with a picture ID."

Bucher said that she'd prefer the legislature approve the ID but that backers
are first trying a grass-roots effort in Florida cities with high Hispanic
populations. If successful, consulates representing other nationalities, such as
Guatemalans, would follow, she said.

The drive for recognition of the consular IDs is being directed by Mexican
consulates throughout the United States, which issued more than 600,000 last
year alone. Consulates charge $29 for the bilingual, wallet-size card, called a
matricula consular in Spanish. It bears the name, date of birth and U.S. address
for the Mexican citizen and includes a photograph.

"This is an ID that validates them as a resident, not a legal resident," said
Lake Worth resident and Latino Leadership Institute President Henry Saldana, who
also attended Tuesday's city commission meeting.

Another backer, Helman Ruiz of the Spanish-language Radio Fiesta 1380 AM, said
Mexicans will understand the IDs don't grant them legal status. "The consul is
very emphatic in telling them that this is not a document leading to
legalization in the United States," Ruiz said. "Immigration is an entirely
different topic."

Consular cards already are accepted by driver license offices as a secondary
proof of identity but cannot be used by itself to obtain a license.

"You have to show that you are here legally," said Bob Sanchez, a spokesman for
the Division of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles in Tallahassee. "The ID card
alone or the passport alone would not do that."

For three years, Florida has required proof of legal residence, but began close
scrutiny of documents after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Applicants must show
an up-to-date stamp in their passport granting them entry into the United
States, or a green card, which shows them to be legal permanent residents.

Since Tuesday's vote, some Lake Worth residents have been organizing against the
ordinance via telephone and e-mail.

"We need to make a strong statement that The City of Lake Worth is NOT a haven
for illegal immigrants," resident Beth Felti e-mailed friends.

Felti said in an interview that she's not against immigrants but that she
doesn't think the city should encourage more to settle here.

"I feel when people start their lives by coming here illegally they've already
started out on the wrong foot," she said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

pilar_ulibarri@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Rodney Romano (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              76 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 22, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA DESERT KILLING MIGRANTS FROM MEXICO

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: TOHONO O'ODHAM NATION, ARIZONA


Under a sizzling midday sky, U.S. Border Patrol agents on motorbikes came upon a
gruesome discovery amid the cactus and mesquite trees.

"Need any help?" agent Brad Rubinoff muttered into his truck's radio, hearing a
report from the agents on the bikes.

"Negative," crackled a voice from somewhere inaccessible by car. "It's a
skeleton."

Rubinoff fell silent. Someone again had paid the ultimate price for daring the
Arizona desert.

The skeleton was a 38-year-old man from La Paz in Baja California who died about
a year ago, the Mexican Consulate in Tucson said.

Rubinoff's specialty is rescuing illegal immigrants who get lost or left behind
by smugglers while attempting to cross this vast American Indian reservation and
other nearby desert wilderness areas.

As this summer season comes to a close, it will be remembered here as perhaps
the deadliest. Desert temperatures can reach 115 degrees, and agents have been
retrieving more bodies than ever before.

Although the number of apprehensions of undocumented immigrants along the
U.S.-Mexican border has dropped by 28 percent compared with last year, migrant
deaths along Arizona's popular but deadly smuggling corridor have skyrocketed.

"It's been particularly devastating this summer," said Rubinoff, who this season
recovered the body of an 11-year-old girl who died in her mother's arms of
exhaustion and dehydration.

After another desperate migrant found a highway and flagged agents down for
help, Rubinoff saved one man and found another dead after following his tracks.

"He had just seized up. He had foamed at the mouth and had suffered such a
powerful seizure he had kicked off one of his shoes," Rubinoff recalled. "He had
come within yards of a water hole for cattle but was so far gone he missed it."

Work on solution slows

The continuing death toll is evidence that smugglers are choosing the most
isolated terrain of an already dangerous area to shepherd migrants on walks of
up to 60 miles and five days.

The body count underscores that the governments of Mexico and the United States
have unfinished business when it comes to the issue of migration.

In early 2001, President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico made historic
strides toward recognizing that both countries are to blame for illegal
immigration and the ills it engenders.

Bush, more bluntly than any other U.S. president, recognized that many U.S.
businesses depend on immigrant labor, including several million undocumented
workers.

But serious efforts to hammer out an unprecedented temporary guest-worker
program with Mexico came to a halt last fall after the Sept. 11 attacks, which
prompted cries for tighter border security.

Fox's government has tried to argue that agreements to legalize and offer more
temporary visas to Mexican workers would be an improvement in U.S. security and
would reduce the numbers seeking illegal and perilous routes into the United
States.

After the November elections are over in the United States - and U.S.
politicians are perhaps more inclined to deal with the issue - Fox's government
plans to try to revive its quest.

Last year, the Mexican government counted 81 deaths along the Arizona border.
This year, through Sept. 9, government figures show the figure is 144 deaths.

With an estimated 52 deaths on the California border and 86 in Texas, the total
number of deaths of Mexican migrants through early September is 282.

The Tohono O'Odham Indians, whose reservation includes a 75-mile border with
Mexico, estimate that smugglers spirit 1,500 to 2,000 people a day through their
territory, which extends up to Casa Grande, a community about 50 miles south of
Phoenix.

"In our way of life, we recognize people as brothers and sisters," said Henry A.
Ramon, the nation's vice chairman. "The main solution to this is to change the
law and establish a work agreement so that people won't have to go through this
terrain."

Almost daily, more corpses are discovered on the reservation and in federal
parks that the Border Patrol agents can only attempt to survey by automobile,
motorbike, helicopter, horse and on foot.

Migrant deaths have increased into the thousands since the U.S. Border Patrol
began a campaign in 1995 to seal once-porous urban sites along the border. The
strategy led migrants to seek out more dangerous routes. Organized-crime groups
that smuggle and produce false documents on both sides of the border have
flourished.

If the migrants make it across the border and are safely picked up by
prearranged drivers, they are often taken to sites around Phoenix and put into
vans, buses and even airplanes to destinations all over the United States.

"A bunch of people I was with were going to Atlanta, New York and a bunch of
cities I'd never heard of before," said Jose Morales, a laid-off oil worker from
Veracruz, Mexico, caught three times attempting to cross this month.

"It's a cruel walk you can't imagine until you do it," added Morales, 37. "We
walked right by the body of a girl. The smuggler said she'd been there for
months."

susanf@coxnews.com

Arizona takes grim lead in death tolls

1998

Arizona: 12

California: 143

Texas: 170

Total: 325

1999

Arizona: 44

California: 111

Texas: 201

Total: 356

2000

Arizona: 90

California: 132

Texas: 269

Total: 491

2001

Arizona: 81

California: 132

Texas: 178

Total: 391

2002 (through Sept. 9)

Arizona: 144

California: 52

Texas: 86

Total: 282

Source: Mexican government

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); PETE SCANLON/Special to the Post WAITING TO CROSS: People
on their way to the United States, or who have been kicked out, wait for a meal
outside a Catholic shelter in Altar, Mexico, about two hours south of the border
with Arizona.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              77 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 23, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

PROPOSALS SUCH AS ID CARD FOR MEXICANS ARE BAD IDEAS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 223 words


Any individual without valid immigration documents is in this country unlawfully
and should not be due any special considerations, regardless of the misguided
philosophy of The Post ("Approve Mexican IDs," editorial Tuesday), Lake Worth
Mayor Rodney Romano and Commissioner Joe Egly.

In the article regarding the Lake Worth ordinance ("Mexican IDs unlikely to win
Lake Worth nod," Tuesday), an illegal immigrant stated that the Mexican consular
document would not make her life easier, since she still is in this country
illegally. Did she have a right to enter this country unlawfully and remain here
because (she says) her visa request was "ignored," and should she expect no
repercussions? The immigration process is not a McDonald's drive-through.

There is little distinction between an individual entering this country
illegally and someone breaking into a home. Immigrants of all nationalities do
contribute much to this country's economy and social fabric, and make it a
better place, but the immigration must be in accordance with our laws. Rewarding
or accommodating illegal immigrants is an affront to the millions of immigrants
who played by the rules. Ordinances like this only encourage foreign nationals
to sneak across the border and disrespect the laws of this nation.

MARK and

DEBBIE HATCHER

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              78 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 29, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

SAME OLD DREAM STILL DRIVING IMMIGRANTS TO U.S. TODAY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 113 words


The writer of Tuesday's letter "Forget IDs; cut to chase: Why are illegals
here?" asked a question that should not go unanswered. It is "What are all these
admitted illegal immigrants doing in this country in the first place?" The
answer is that they are picking our vegetables, cleaning our hotel rooms, mowing
and trimming our lawns and performing other low-paid, unpleasant jobs that
subsidize our businesses.

Why are they here? To try to make a better life for themselves and their
families, just like previous generations of immigrants. Also, because American
business people need them and facilitate them being here. Next question?

MARIE GOTTFRIED

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              79 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 30, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS NOT TO BLAME; EMPLOYERS ARE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 125 words


The writer of a letter Tuesday states that the only valid concern regarding
illegal immigrants is to ask ourselves why they are here at all ("Forget IDs;
cut to chase: Why are illegals here?"). I believe I can answer him. The vast
majority of illegals are here because they need jobs, and there are thousands of
employers who are all too willing to pay ridiculously low wages, while assigning
hours and jobs that very few Americans would accept. Overtime pay and legal
break rules don't have to be adhered to because the illegal worker cannot
complain to an authority.

Most illegals are not here whooping it up and living the good life; they are
here to feed their families and survive through hard work.

GILLIAN CIERI

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              80 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      October 4, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FINE, BUT NOT MASS, ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 113 words


About Sunday's letter "Same old dream still driving immigrants to U.S. today":
Being married to an immigrant, I, like probably 98 percent of Americans, do not
oppose immigration. But, after I became informed on this issue, I do oppose
"mass immigration" that will create a population explosion and environmental
problems, water shortages and a list of negative repercussions.

As far as illegal immigration goes, what part of illegal does the letter-writer
not understand? Who picked our vegetables, cleaned our hotel rooms and mowed our
lawns before 13 million illegal immigrants came here? Americans did - when
employers paid a living wage.

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              81 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 27, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

STUDY: FLORIDA RANKS 3RD IN IMMIGRANT POPULATION

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida has the third-highest population of foreign-born residents in the United
States and the number is increasing at roughly 6 percent a year, despite the
nation's economic slowdown and increased border security, according to a study
released Tuesday.

Florida is home to more than 3 million legal and illegal immigrants - an
increase of 357,000 between January 2000 and March 2002, according to U.S.
Census Bureau figures analyzed by the Center for Immigration Studies.

"There is no evidence that the economic slowdown that began in 2000 or the
terrorist attacks in 2001 have significantly slowed the rate of immigration,"
said Steven Camarota, the center's research director. "More than 3.3 million
legal and illegal immigrants have entered the country since January of 2000."

The center advocates a reduction in immigration rates to about 300,000 a year.

New immigration and births to immigrant women account for at least two-thirds of
Florida's population growth in the past two years, the report said.

California and New York have the largest number of immigrants - 9.1 million and
3.9 million, respectively - and the highest percentage of their population, 26.4
percent and 21 percent. New Jersey has the third-largest concentration of
foreign-born residents, 18.5 percent, followed by Florida with 18.4 percent.
There are about 31.1 million immigrants among the nation's 282 million
residents, or 11 percent.

Camarota argues that population increases from immigration account for most of
the nearly 8-million-person increase in the number of Americans without health
insurance over the past dozen years. The report said that in Florida:

* 32 percent of immigrants and their children under 18 lack health insurance,
compared to 13 percent among those born in the U.S.

* 45 percent of foreign-born residents and their children live in or near
poverty, compared to 31 percent of native-born residents.

* 23 percent of immigrant-headed households receive at least one major welfare
program benefit, compared to 15 percent of native-born residents.

Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, which monitors Hispanic life
in the U.S., argued that the report misrepresented the recent increase in
immigration because it did not account for those who returned to their country
or died here.

Suro described the report as a "highly selective use of data to support their
argument about what the future of immigration should be."

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              82 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 16, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' COST GOES WELL BEYOND WELFARE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 188 words


When Ruben Navarrette considers welfare, he should include any service that is
paid for by the government ("Ambivalence on immigration stops at border," Dec.
2).

That is Medicaid, judicial system, prisons (20 percent of California's prison
population is illegal aliens), public school enrollments ( $4 billion a year in
California). It costs the American taxpayer $1 million to educate just 180
children for one year. The National Academy of Sciences reports that the average
illegal alien will, in his or her lifetime, cost each American citizen $55,000
in public services.

One other point that needs clarification is the "new study out this week from
the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University". The Center for
Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University came out with another study not
too long ago, "The Summer 20002 Employment Situation Among America's Teens: The
Worst job Market For Teens in 37 Years". It goes on to say "Key factors cited
for the depressed employment rates for teens are,

increased job competition from new immigrants".

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              83 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 20, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

AGENTS DETAIN 12 IMMIGRANTS WHO JUMPED SHIP OFF JUPITER

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


For the second time in two days, a boatload of illegal immigrants landed on the
beach in Northern Palm Beach County, the U.S. Border Patrol reported.

Twelve undocumented adult foreign nationals were arrested after being dropped
off by boat at 10 a.m. on State Road A1A north of Juno Beach. No boat was found,
agents said. The immigrants were taken Thursday to Krome Detention Center near
Miami for indefinite confinement until immigration court hearings, Border Patrol
Capt. Mike McClarnon said.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run South.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              84 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 19, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

WHY WOULD ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAVE ANY RIGHTS IN U.S.?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 157 words


In reference to the Jan. 9 editorial "Rush to asylum judgement": After several
paragraphs of bashing Attorney General John Ashcroft's "reckless" commitment to
eliminate a 56,000-case backlog of Board of Immigration Appeals, the editorial
concludes, "But no change should compromise Americans' fundamental belief that
even if all people who come here don't have the right to stay, every person is
entitled to a fair shake."

I guess I don't understand "right." If illegal immigrants have broken U.S. laws
by being here illegally, The Post explains that they "don't have the right to
stay." If they don't have the right to stay, what is the purpose of a hearing?
Would a "fair shake" in The Post's eyes be to override the law? If this is the
case, the law is meaningless, so why even bother to enforce it?

Perhaps you could enlist the help of someone who knows how to parse words,
namely, Bill Clinton.

DONALD H. KOENIG

Lake Worth


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              85 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 12, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT DEPORTED

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 90 words


An illegal immigrant of "Middle Eastern descent" was detained and then deported
after a Palm Beach County sheriff's deputy reported he had been asking
suspicious questions about security at the county's government center, according
to sheriff's office reports.

The man, whose name was not released, was caught Feb. 10 after parking lot
attendant Donald Bennett told deputies the man had asked about the degree of
security at the offices.

Bennett informed the man security was tight and then took down the man's license
plate number.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              86 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 26, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

WITNESS' UNREPRESENTED JAIL STAY NEARS END

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Sebastian Abrocio Hernandez has been jailed since late November, yet is charged
with no crime.

The Mexican immigrant sat in court Wednesday with other prisoners, with no case
file, no docket entry, just an anonymous immigrant in a blue jumpsuit. Hernandez
left staff and attorneys in the courtroom briefly wondering what he was doing
there.

"What am I accused of?" the 37-year-old repeatedly asked his interpreter.

Nada.

Three seats away in the prisoner box was the reason why he was there - his
countryman, Euxodio Pedro Jose. Jose, 32, ran a red light, causing an accident
that killed a woman in another car last November. Hernandez was his passenger
and was never charged in the case. But he's been handcuffed to it ever since,
first taken into custody for being an illegal immigrant, then jailed locally
when prosecutors wanted him handy to be a witness in the case.

A defense attorney appointed Wednesday - the first one Hernandez has had since
his jailing - was appalled that a witness was being held with no attorney just
because he's an illegal immigrant. Immigrants are treated disparately, and
Mexican migrants probably among the worst, said Nellie King after court. "This
would not happen to a French au pair working illegally in Palm Beach," King
said.

A spokesman for the state attorney's office, Mike Edmondson, said jailing any
state witness usually doesn't happen at all. Edmondson did not recall any other
instance of it, but said state statutes allow for it.

"It's not something we would want to do nor would we do on a regular basis,"
Edmondson said. "Our best witness is a willing witness."

According to court records, Assistant State Attorney Elizabeth Parker asked a
judge in January to keep Hernandez in custody locally in order to testify in
Jose's case. At the time, Hernandez was being held in Manatee County, where
immigration officials were about to deport him back to Mexico.

Both Circuit Judge Richard Oftedal and Circuit Judge Stephen Rapp, who took over
Oftedal's cases, each approved orders to jail Hernandez in Palm Beach County as
a key witness.

There Hernandez has languished since, with no attorney or outlet or scheduled
court dates because there was no charge against him.

Hernandez told police after the Nov. 25, 2002, accident on a rural road west of
Royal Palm Beach that he had been asleep when it occurred. Both he and Jose then
fled from the scene because they didn't know anyone, according to court records.

The case of Jose, the driver, has since been called to court about a half-dozen
times. At least two of those times, according to court records, the wrong
defendant was brought to court for the hearing - likely being Hernandez, not
Jose.

Recently, a Spanish-speaking investigator from the public defender's office
heard Hernandez's story while visiting the jail. Then Assistant Public Defender
Steve Malone jumped in, filing a motion in Jose's case to have Hernandez brought
to court and be given a lawyer.

On Wednesday, the case came to a swift end, with Jose pleading guilty to charges
stemming from the accident, including leaving the scene of an accident involving
a death, a felony. He was sentenced to four years in prison, with credit for the
214 days already served.

Rapp ordered that Hernandez be released from jail and returned to immigration
officials. Most likely he'll be deported. Officials from the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration services could not be reached for comment.

Rapp remarked he had no idea how the change of custody works, just that he
wanted it to happen. "Hopefully they'll come get him in the next few days," Rapp
said.

Just after the decisions were made, Hernandez's briefly appointed attorney,
King, arrived. She was on the case just long enough to lodge an objection on the
record as to what happened to Hernandez. King emphasized to Rapp that leaving a
person jailed without an attorney and charged with no crime should never happen
again.

Rapp seemed unfazed. "If a month goes by and he's still in jail, we won't be
happy about that," he said.

Hernandez just sat by watching, his interpreter gone, unaware again.

susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Sebastian Abrocio Hernandez (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              87 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 July 11, 2003 Friday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION
                              Correction Appended

INJURED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT SPIRITED BACK HOME

BYLINE: By PAT MOORE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: STUART


A brain-damaged illegal immigrant at the heart of a national health care debate
was flown to his Guatemalan homeland early Thursday, shocking attorneys who
tried desperately to keep him hospitalized in Martin County.

Luis Jimenez, 31, who has no money and the mental capacity of a child, racked up
more than $1 million in bills at Martin Memorial Medical Center since the
February 2002 car crash that nearly killed him.

The former landscape worker was taken shortly after dawn by ambulance from
Martin Memorial to a waiting air ambulance at the St. Lucie County International
Airport, bound for Central America. Guatemalan government officials met the
plane, and Jimenez was placed in a rehabilitation and orthopedic hospital in
Guatemala City for evaluation.

"The hospital has clandestinely deported Luis, an incompetent person, against
the will of the only person appointed by the court to speak for him," said
Stuart attorney Michael Banks, his voice cracking with emotion Thursday
afternoon.

He accused hospital officials of violating a court order requiring Jimenez's
legal guardian and cousin, Montejo Gaspar of Indiantown, to participate in the
patient's discharge plan.

Banks and JoNel Newman, an attorney for the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project
of Florida Legal Services, said they are exploring legal options against the
hospital.

"We are shocked and dismayed by the behavior of the hospital in this case,"
Newman said. "In the absence of any authority, the hospital has effectuated its
own private deportation of Mr. Jimenez, solely to save itself money."

But hospital officials said Jimenez's move should come as no surprise.

"For him to say this came as a surprise, it boggles the mind," said hospital
spokesman Miguel Coty.

A Martin Memorial nurse overseeing Jimenez's case accompanied him, hospital
attorney George Bovie said. "The nurse reported to me that the flight went well
and Luis was happy to be back in Guatemala," he said. "She spoke at length with
the two physicians who will be handling his care and she reported he was happy
and visibly communicating with people in the hospital."

But Banks and Gaspar said they fear Jimenez will not receive appropriate
treatment for the injuries that left him with the mental capacity of a child.

"I'm feeling very, very bad about my cousin," said Gaspar, who visited Jimenez
weekly outside his fourth-floor hospital room. "We didn't get to say goodbye to
him."

Jimenez's case illustrates a national debate over who is responsible for caring
for poor illegal immigrants requiring extensive health care after they reach
this country.

Federal guidelines require health-care facilities receiving Medicare and
Medicaid payments, such as Martin Memorial, to discharge patients only to a
facility that will provide the next level of appropriate care. Because of
Jimenez's illegal status, federal health-care programs do not cover his
long-term care.

Gaspar and Banks accused hospital officials during a non-jury trial last month
of failing to specify a Guatemalan facility that would accept Jimenez or the
type of treatment he would receive once returned to his native land.

Circuit Judge John Fennelly ordered Jimenez's return after the Guatemalan
Minister of Health assured him the patient would be evaluated and receive
appropriate treatment and therapy at no charge in that country.

Fennelly also ordered the hospital to pay for the transportation to Guatemala
and to provide a medical escort.

Bovie said hospital officials voluntarily agreed not to discharge Jimenez before
5 p.m. Wednesday, giving Banks time to seek a court order to stop the trip and
appeal Fennelly's ruling.

Banks filed a notice of appeal Wednesday afternoon in Martin Circuit Court, but
Fennelly said once that notice was filed, he no longer had the authority to
enter any orders in the case without permission from the 4th District Court of
Appeal.

Banks said he filed documents seeking to stop Jimenez from leaving the hospital
with the appeals court early Thursday, but the plane was already on the way to
Guatemala.

Coty said once the voluntary deadline passed Wednesday afternoon, "we had the
green light to proceed with the discharge and that's what we did."

They sent seven days of prescription medications and a wheelchair with him, he
said.

Gaspar, flanked by his wife, Juana, and their four children during a press
conference Thursday, said, "Luis, we're never going to forget you.

"Juana and all my kids will remember you forever. You're in my heart."

pat_moore@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2003

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, The Palm Beach Post Friday incorrectly attributed a
quotation to Martin Memorial Hospital spokesman Miguel Coty in a story about
brain-damaged patient Luis Alberto Jimenez, who was moved to Guatemala Thursday.
The quote, "For him to say this came as a surprise, it boggles the mind," should
have been attributed to hospital attorney George Bovie. The error appeared in a
story on the front page.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Luis Alberto Jimenez (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              88 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 8, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

GUATEMALAN HOSPITALS RELEASE FORMER IMMIGRANT

BYLINE: By PAT MOORE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 640 words


An illegal immigrant ousted last month from a Stuart hospital after a judge
ordered him returned to his home country has been tossed out of two Guatemalan
hospitals and is no longer receiving needed medication, sources said Thursday.

Luis Alberto Jimenez, 31, who suffered severe brain damage in a February 2000
crash in Indiantown, was found in Guatemala City by a brother and taken to his
mother's home in a rural village, said Joseph Cackley, a paralegal with the
Florida Immigration Advocacy Center in Miami.

"He's with his mother," said Montejo Gaspar of Indiantown, Jimenez's cousin and
legal guardian. "She says he's talking, but without medication. I worry about
him, about his life. I can't believe this."

Jimenez ran up more than $1.5 million in bills during his more than two years as
a patient at Martin Memorial Medical Center.

His case is part of a national health care debate over who is responsible for
caring for poor illegal immigrants requiring extensive health care after they
reach this country. Because of his illegal status, federal health care programs
did not cover his long-term care.

Hospitals receiving Medicare and Medicaid, such as Martin Memorial, are required
to discharge patients only to a facility that will provide the appropriate care.

Treasure Coast Circuit Judge John Fennelly ordered Jimenez returned to his
homeland after a June trial during which Guatemalan officials assured the judge
they would properly care for the former landscape worker, who has the mental
capacity of a child.

"This is the whole point we were arguing at trial," said Jimenez's attorney,
Michael Banks. "Guatemalan hospitals are incapable of giving him the treatment
and care he needs. . . . They've been arm-twisting the family to take him since
his arrival."

While Jimenez's attorneys scrambled to appeal the judge's order, Martin Memorial
officials escorted the patient on a pre-dawn flight to a rehabilitation and
orthopedic hospital in Guatemala City.

Martin Memorial spokesman Miguel Coty defended hospital officials' actions,
insisting they complied with the judge's order when discharging Jimenez.

"Our responsibility ended when the (Guatemalan) government said they would take
responsibility for him," Coty said. "After we transported him home, met with his
physicians and checked out the facility, that was the extent of our
involvement."

Florida Immigration Advocacy Center's Cackley said he and Florida Legal Services
attorney JoNel Newman, who joined the legal team after the trial, said they plan
to visit Jimenez this month to assess his situation.

"We're worried about his condition. . . . Abrupt discontinuation of his
medications can be very dangerous," Cackley said, noting that Jimenez's family
lives in a very poor home in San Pedro Soloma.

The rehabilitation hospital that initially assessed Jimenez's condition sent him
to a second hospital. Doctors recommended he undergo an operation to repair a
valve that drains fluid from the brain, Cackley said.

He said hospital officials and family members gave different reasons for
Jimenez's abrupt release.

Hospital officials claim Jimenez's family members refused to give permission for
the surgery, so they released him, Cackley said. He said family members said
they could not afford to pay for the surgery, so the hospital discharged him.

"This is what our expert predicted would happen, and unfortunately it has turned
out this way," said Banks, who has appealed Fennelly's order. His appeal claims
the judge did not have the authority to deport Jimenez.

Jimenez's attorneys said they are exploring potential action against the
hospital.

"Had they just given him the treatment he needed, he probably would be home with
his family and functioning OK by now," Banks said. "That's the human tragedy."

pat_moore@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Jimenez's case is part of a national debate over health care
for poor illegal immigrants. (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              89 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 25, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CAPTURED TRYING ENTRY NEAR INLET

BYLINE: By THOMAS R. COLLINS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 278 words


At least 19 illegal immigrants came ashore Sunday just south of Jupiter Inlet,
where they were taken into custody by the Jupiter Police Department, then turned
over to the U.S. Border Patrol.

The group, which included 18 Haitians and one Jamaican, probably will be
deported.

Four of the undocumented Haitian migrants taken into custody were young
children, two were teenaged boys, four were women, and seven were men. The
Jamaican was a woman, said Arthur Bullock, the chief U.S. Border patrol agent in
South Florida.

Two of the migrants were sent to the hospital, Bullock said, adding he couldn't
say anything about their medical condition. The Associated Press reported that a
man and a woman were slightly dehydrated and received medical treatment.

They came ashore in a 25-foot boat, Bullock said. Someone saw them and called
911. Bullock said the initial reports were that 25 or 30 people came ashore.

"Obviously we don't have that many in custody so it's hard to determine how many
people were on board the boat," he said.

Sunday night, Border Patrol agents and other officials were looking for others
who possibly came ashore, he said.

The Border Patrol is investigating whether smugglers were involved, but Bullock
said he didn't have any good leads.

Seven Cuban immigrants were captured two weeks ago when their boat was
intercepted entering Lake Worth Inlet. Another man on board, Angel Perez Robles,
was charged with smuggling while one immigrant was arrested as a material
witness.

Three Cubans made it to shore, making them eligible to stay under the so-called
"wet foot, dry foot" Cuban immigration policy.

thomas_collins@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); RICK SILVA/The Miami Herald, Haitians sit in a parking lot
along A1A Sunday after being caught trying to gain entry to the United States
near the Jupiter Inlet. The group also included one Jamaican.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              90 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 9, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ARTICLE ON IMMIGRANT COUPLE A ROAD MAP TO BILK TAXPAYERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 197 words


The article by Ron Wiggins Oct. 26, "Illegal couple struggles to get infant help
while staying under radar," encourages illegal immigration into Florida and Palm
Beach County by glorifying the struggles of this couple to reach the United
States. No one bears them any ill will, but the school and health systems
already are groaning under the load placed on them.

Continued illegal immigration leads to overcrowding, as The Post points out.
Fourteen people in a three-bedroom apartment? From a health viewpoint, that's
more than a septic system was designed for, and an increasing strain on the
school and health systems, as the children are placed in public schools for
education and end up in the emergency room for health and infant care. With a
health-care crisis in this country, a $7.50-an-hour wage doesn't buy much health
care. So the taxpayers will pick up the burden.

This article is a blueprint on how to rig the system: Have the children in the
U.S., and they are automatic citizens, and officials can't deport you. How about
balanced articles showing some of the negative effects of this kind of illegal
immigration?

JOHN L. MORRISEY

North Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              91 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 7, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

U.S. OBLIGINGLY PROVIDES FAKE I.D.

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 603 words


Sometimes, undocumented aliens get their Social Security cards from the same
people you do - your local Social Security office worker.

"It's rare," said Social Security spokesman Mark Lassiter, when you consider
there are 65,000 workers in 1,300 Social Security field offices around the
country. But one bad employee can do a lot of damage.

In December, a worker in the Arlington, Texas, office was indicted for his role
in counterfeiting more than 1,700 cards for $2,500 apiece. In November, a
43-year-old claims adjuster in the Atlanta office was one of 28 people indicted
in a ring that issued 1,900 cards to undocumented immigrants.

This year alone, two Social Security employees in Palm Beach County were charged
in two separate cases with processing and arranging delivery for about 400
illegal cards.

On Feb. 11, Walther Velasquez, 38, an employee at a Social Security office in
Delray Beach, was arrested after trying to persuade a co-worker to help him
process and sell cards. According to court records, Velasquez offered to pay
$1,000 per card to a co-worker to help him process paperwork. Velasquez said he
had a source in Boston who would supply him with biographical information to use
on the cards. After processing the paperwork, the cards would be sent to a
middleman, who would then sell them to undocumented immigrants.

Shortly after Velasquez posted bond, agents searched his apartment on South
Dixie Highway in West Palm Beach. As they opened the door, they found Velasquez
holding a garbage bag containing a hot dog, a cigar laced with marijuana and the
torn-up biographical information of prospective illegal applicants. On a table,
the agents found stacks of blank Social Security card applications.

He pleaded guilty and was sentenced in August to 27 months in federal prison.

Four months after Velasquez's arrest, police arrested Sylena Britt, 31, an
application processor at a Social Security office in Belle Glade. An informant
in another case in Atlanta told investigators he bought his illegal papers from
a man who had a supplier in South Florida. Detectives tracked his application to
the Belle Glade office and discovered that Britt had issued it. Upon checking
her records, they learned she had issued 378 cards to undocumented immigrants.
Britt, of Greenacres, pleaded guilty and will be sentenced Dec. 30.

A spokesman for the agency didn't know how many employees had been charged with
illegally processing applications or how many bogus cards ended up in the hands
of undocumented workers. But careless employees are also to blame. An inspector
general's report found at least 96,274 foreign-born workers with invalid and
inappropriate papers were issued Social Security cards in 2000. In nearly 80
percent of those cases, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had no record
of entry for these workers.

To deter Social Security workers - who can earn thousand of dollars per illegal
card sold - the inspector general has asked for tougher prison sentences.
Currently, there is no minimum sentence for illegally selling cards, and
sentences range from probation to years in prison. One former employee who
pocketed $120,000 for illegally issuing about 300 cards was put on probation for
three years and ordered to pay a $2,000 fine, said James G. Huse Jr., inspector
general.

He wants Congress to impose minimum sentences or to propose sentences of one to
five years in prison for selling up to 50 cards, five to 10 years for 50-100
cards and 10-20 years in prison for more than 100 cards: "Participation in such
crimes cannot be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 1 of 3

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              92 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 14, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ABUSED YES, BUT ILLEGAL MIGRANTS ARE NOT SLAVES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 181 words


I find The Post's slant on "Modern-Day Slavery" quite wrong. I am by no means
saying that these illegal immigrants are not taken advantage of, but it is not
slavery.

First, they come here by choice. They are not kidnapped. They come here because
their countries' governments are so corrupt that money never trickles down to
the people. Their governments don't care and mostly encourage illegal emigration
to the United States so that their own countries won't have to deal with them.
Then the U.S. gets blamed for their problems.

I am so tired of supporting this type of illegal immigration with my tax
dollars. The U.S. government needs to start seriously penalizing the countries
that we trade with when they don't take care of their own. But until we deal
with our own corruption, I'm afraid that won't take place. You can call it abuse
of undocumented workers, but don't call it slavery. That would be a slap in the
face to the blacks who were kidnapped from Africa and brought here against their
will and not even paid for their work.

BRUCE CREAMER

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              93 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      January 4, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY MEANS OPEN BORDERS; REJECT BAD IDEA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 208 words


About Ruben Navarrette Jr.'s Dec. 22 column "Ridge's immigration challenge lost
on some": The rush to normalize or to grant the rights of citizenship to
undocumented aliens is ill-advised. These proposals are tantamount to open
immigration.

Advocates of this approach are oblivious to the fact that America has difficulty
coping with its current population growth. The United States no longer is an
empty country in need of masses of unskilled labor. Most cities are choking on
population-driven pollution. Public schools and colleges are suffering from
overcrowding, and social and medical resources are strained.

Granted, no one, including illegals, should be exploited or abused. But granting
amnesty, giving driver licenses and in-state tuition to children of illegal
immigrants only will encourage more desperate people to break our laws and
overwhelm our limited resources. There are alternatives. Among them are
enforceable guest-worker programs that ensure that the workers return to their
country of origin. Above all, the United States should carefully assess its
needs for immigration and its capacity to absorb immigrants before consideration
is given to amnesty or any other legislation.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              94 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 15, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ARRESTED IN JUPITER; DRUGS ALSO FOUND

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


In what is believed to be the first landing of undocumented foreign nationals on
Palm Beach County shores this year, 12 people were arrested by local police and
U.S. Border Patrol agents after arriving in Jupiter Inlet at about 1 a.m.
Wednesday.

Two men were charged with drug trafficking by Jupiter police after being
detained by patrolman Nathan Baird, who spotted the party walking along State
Road A1A.

Joaquin Pina, 52, of the Dominican Republic, had 2.2 pounds of cocaine inside
his shirt, and Amaury Sanchez-Navarro, 30, of Cuba, had about 4 pounds of
marijuana in a backpack, police said.

Pina, Sanchez and 10 others arrested by the border patrol were taken to the Palm
Beach County Jail.

The others - including a woman from Trinidad, a woman from Haiti, one man each
from Haiti and Guyana and five Jamaican men - await a decision on whether they
will be held in the county jail as material witnesses in a smuggling case or
taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami, Border Patrol spokesman Art Bullock
said.

The alleged smuggler, a Bahamian man whose identity was withheld, will be
charged with smuggling undocumented foreign nationals. He has a previous
conviction for that crime, Bullock said.

The 25-foot boat with a Yamaha outboard engine crossed from the Bahamas in
unusually calm winter seas, he said.

"The seas were flat" Tuesday night, Bullock said. "Usually, seas are chopped up
this time of year."

- joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              95 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 26, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

COLTON'S REPORTING ILLEGALS ONLY FULFILLS RESPONSIBILITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 95 words


Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Roger B. Colton's position on reporting illegal
immigrants to authorities should set the standard for all officers of the court
("Judge's reports to Border Patrol roil legal waters," Jan. 18).

Why should anyone think that illegal immigrants should be protected by the
court? They broke the law. And the lawyers who have a problem with that will
have the opportunity to represent the illegal immigrants during deportation
proceedings. Americans should not have to support illegal immigrants.

PAUL M. HELFGOTT

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              96 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 26, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

A JUDGE GOES TOO FAR

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 400 words


From his bench in the Palm Beach County Judicial Center, Circuit Judge Roger B.
Colton has embarked on a one-man crusade to police the nation's borders.

At least four times since last summer, The Post reported, Judge Colton has
written down names, addresses and birth dates of illegal immigrant children and
their families and faxed the information to the U.S. Border Patrol. His
rationale is that he is obliged to report people who break the law. He says he
does not turn in all people he suspects of being here illegally.

Chief Judge Edward Fine has not objected but says all judges must be mindful of
action that harms the system - which Judge Colton's campaign does. His
selectivity begs several questions. What are his criteria for deciding whom to
report and whom not to? What guidelines is he following? While presiding over
cases, judges often learn of illegal acts by people who come into their
courtrooms - violations involving unpaid traffic tickets, tax evasion, drug
abuses or even perjury. But rarely do judges alert law enforcement because
witnesses won't cooperate with authorities if they fear prosecution for
offenses.

In targeting illegal immigrants and their children for his crusade, Judge Colton
is intimidating the wrong people. Juvenile victims of abuse, neglect or
abandonment who seek refuge in the court find themselves victimized again
because of their immigration status. Judge Colton is using his personal ideology
as grounds to assume duties meant for the federal courts. Florida law does not
exclude undocumented children from receiving the state's protection, and in
1990, Congress passes legislation that grants legal status to immigrant children
who have been declared dependent by a state juvenile court. Judge Colton is
overstepping his bounds when he preempts the opportunity of abused children to
request dependency.

"He is a family court judge who is putting on a federal hat," says Marisol
Zequeira Burke, an immigration attorney with Catholic Charities in Stuart. "I
believe it makes the immigrant community more susceptible to abuse at the hands
of unscrupulous individuals."

While Judge Colton maintains that his actions are selective, their effect is
not. He is driving people away from the judicial system instead of encouraging
their constructive participation and making the nation's irrational approach to
immigrants a little more so.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              97 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 28, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

FAIRNESS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS COMES AT HIGH COST TO CITIZENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 349 words


In two recent articles, columnists Molly Ivins ("Bush immigration plan a lead
balloon," Jan. 15) and Ruben Navarrette Jr. ("Immigrant plan buries long-dead
myth," Jan. 19) stated that, thanks to President Bush's solution for legalizing
illegal immigrants, these workers at least will be able to collect the Social
Security payments they earned here when they return to Mexico. While I applaud
these writers for their sense of fairness, they have overlooked the fact that
these same workers' costs to Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties (per the
Dec. 9 article "Some hidden costs of migrant labor") were nearly $21.5 million
in social services alone. This does not include hospitals and health-care
services, which are used by migrants for primary care since many have no health
insurance.

A hospital in Stuart, for example, saw costs for just one illegal immigrant
reach $1.5 million after he was in a car accident. Shouldn't some of these costs
be repaid to the American taxpayer before the government so generously pours
millions in Social Security payments into the Mexican economy?

Which brings another question to mind: Though many illegal migrants cannot
afford to pay their health costs here, they are able to send more than $30
billion a year home to improve conditions for their families in Mexico. Should
the deeply indebted, insurance-poor American wage earner's taxes continue paying
these costs so that business owners can be assured of an unending supply of
cheap labor? I know we're supposed to be grateful for the bounty of inexpensive
fruits and vegetables this labor force provides us, but strangely enough, a
decent tomato still can cost more than 80 cents.

It seems that corporations have the best of all worlds: cheap labor and many
newcomers with large families who buy their products. Wouldn't it be more fair
if businesses were responsible for the social services and health care of
workers they now so happily hire at low wages and zero benefits rather than
force the rest of us to pick up the slack?

PATRICIA ALLISON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              98 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 31, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

WHEN ILLEGALS PAY THEIR WAY, COLTON CAN STOP

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 175 words


Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Roger Colton does the right thing when he
exposes illegal immigrants to the proper authorities ("Judge's reports to Border
Patrol roil legal waters," Jan 18). Why should we continue to provide public and
private services to anyone who is not paying a fair share of the cost? I am not
without compassion, but my compassion is directed to those who are paying their
share and not getting the services they deserve.

Health, police, educational and all other public services are compromised or
inadequate, because too many are straining America's systems and not
contributing. The only money these government agencies have to give to illegal
immigrants is the tax money we pay. The law is the law, but apparently, the
people who are "officially" charged with monitoring illegal activities are not
doing their job, or Judge Colton would not feel the need to intervene. What kind
of system forces a judge to ignore the law? I think Judge Colton should keep
right on doing what he is doing.

DICK KIHNLEY

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              99 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 10, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

FOR SAFETY, OK LICENSES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 432 words


Sheriffs around the state say a bill backed by Gov. Bush that would allow
illegal immigrants to get behind the wheel legally is too great a security risk.
Indeed, several of the 9/11 hijackers had driver licenses. Delray Beach police
gave plot leader Mohamed Atta a warning for speeding July 5, 2001. A month
earlier, Broward County officials had issued a warrant for Atta for not
appearing in court on a charge of driving without a license. The background
checks proposed in Senate Bill 1360 might have prevented the terrorists from
getting licenses in the first place.

Under the bill sponsored by Sen. Rudy Garcia, R-Hialeah:

* If a foreign national cannot prove his identity with a green card, a
U.S.-issued employment authorization card or other acceptable proof, the
applicant could present an ID card issued by his country's embassy or consulate.
That country cannot be an enemy of the United States.

* Applicants would be fingerprinted.

* Consulates would have to provide criminal background checks on the applicants.

* The licenses would be valid in Florida only and for only two years.

* Applicants would have to prove they own or are leasing a car.

Without a license, many undocumented workers will continue driving untrained and
uninsured, putting all on the road at risk. Last week, days after a van filled
with 19 migrants workers flipped four times in Fort Pierce, authorities still
were having trouble identifying some of the eight who died. Two weeks before,
following a series of attacks in the Treasure Coast and Palm Beach County
against Guatemalan men, West Palm Beach police warned the community against
carrying large amounts of cash. The licenses would make it easier for migrant
workers to open bank accounts.

No law can guarantee that a terrorist won't obtain a fake ID or improperly use a
valid one. Nor should immigrants be allowed to enter the country illegally - a
federal responsibility. But the safeguards proposed in SB 1360 actually should
enhance security, putting fingerprints, addresses, photographs and other
information into a database useful for anti-terrorism agents.

Despite the bill's late introduction and Republicans' hustle to recruit
non-Cuban Latino voters, the governor naturally denies that his support is
political. Regardless of his motivation, Florida - with an estimated 400,000
illegal immigrants working in the state - cannot afford to delay the
legislation.

A database of who is in this country should help deter, not ease, terrorism. For
the safety of all, the state should permit illegal immigrants to drive legally.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              100 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 12, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

BUSH'S IDEA TO LICENSE ILLEGALS MAKES NO SENSE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 134 words


About Wednesday's article "Governor: Licenses for illegal immigrants": They are
illegal, i.e., prohibited by law. An illegal immigrant is prohibited by official
rules. My mind is still reeling from Gov. Bush's comment: "Once they're here,
what do you do?" I can't believe this.

Hasn't he ever heard of deportation? Giving a driver license to the illegals
does not make better drivers. If they were deported, the sugar cane and fruit
groves businessmen, among others, would not have any slave labor; they would be
forced to pay minimum wages to others.

Those are the people who should pay for the funerals of the illegal immigrants
they hired who were killed in their company vans. Florida, according to Jeb
Bush, has more than a half-million immigrants. What to do?

PATRICIA LEE

Greenacres

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              101 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 26, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

BILL TO GIVE IMMIGRANTS LICENSES NO SECURITY BOON

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 230 words


Let me see if I got this straight, according to The Post's April 18 editorial
"Solve migrant puzzle: They're illegal, but vital": To increase our safety, we
should make it easier for illegal aliens to blend into America's legal and
financial systems. The editorial staff is claiming that we will increase
national security if Florida would undermine federal laws by giving illegal
aliens an official state ID that is the equivalent to an internal passport - an
idea that seems to have died in the Legislature.

Does anyone believe that illegal aliens, who have broken federal immigration
laws, would, after getting a driver license, have a dramatic change in behavior
when it comes to laws and rules of the road that go with operating a vehicle?

Senate Bill 1360 also would have given clerks in the Department of Motor
Vehicles the responsibility to verify highly complex foreign identification
documents written in many languages, a responsibility now handled by the U.S.
State Department, whose workers are more experienced and capable in sorting out
fake documents.

Yes, "no law can guarantee that a terrorist won't obtain a fake ID," but one law
would make it much harder to find them by flooding our state with more illegal
aliens, because passage of SB 1360 would have been a welcome sign to all who
wish to come here illegally.

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              102 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 27, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

LICENSING ILLEGALS WAS A BONEHEADED IDEA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 139 words


The April 18 editorial about granting a driver license to illegal immigrants
("Solve migrant puzzle: They're illegal, but vital") was stupid. Does the writer
understand the meaning of illegal? Illegal immigrants are breaking the laws of
this country and of Florida. Many can't speak or read English. How does anyone
expect them to obey the laws of this country?

Gov. Bush also has endorsed the proposal to grant driver licenses to illegal
immigrants, although it seems to have died in the Legislature.

More than 70 percent of the American people oppose illegal immigration, yet
politicians and the media ignore the problems caused by the immigrants. Illegal
immigrants cost the taxpayers billions, which could be put to much better use by
helping Americans and solving America's problems.

STANLEY P. MICHNA

Jensen Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              103 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 6, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ORDER IN GUATEMALAN'S DISCHARGE TOSSED

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 503 words


An appeals court Wednesday overturned a Treasure Coast circuit judge's
controversial decision that allowed a hospital to send an illegal immigrant back
to his native Guatemala after he racked up more than $1 million in unpaid bills.

If the ruling by the 4th District Court of Appeal stands, it could have national
ramifications on the debate over how to pay for medical care for sick immigrants
who don't qualify for government benefits because they are in the country
illegally.

"This decision sends a very clear message to two groups," said JoNel Newman, an
attorney with Florida Legal Services who worked on the case. "First to the
Florida state courts . . . not to intrude into immigration matters. Second,
Florida health care centers . . . if you accept federal dollars, you are
required to provide care."

Hospitals that accept federal money from Medicaid cannot discharge patients
unless a treatment plan is in place, even if that patient is not receiving care
under Medicaid.

The appeals court agreed with the legal guardian for Luis Jimenez, who argued
that Martin Memorial Medical Center in Stuart could not release the
brain-damaged migrant worker without proof he would get the care he needed in
Guatemala.

Circuit Judge John Fennelly ruled in July 2003 that the hospital fulfilled its
obligation by providing a letter from a Guatemalan health official saying
Jimenez, hospitalized since a February 2000 crash caused by a drunken driver,
would receive appropriate care.

Attorney Michael Banks, representing Jimenez's guardian and cousin, Montejo
Gaspar, argued that Martin Memorial should have transferred Jimenez to a local
rehabilitation facility to cut down on their expenses and give him the care he
needed.

Martin Memorial officials arranged to have Jimenez flown to Guatemala shortly
after dawn on July 10 - as soon as they could under Fennelly's ruling.

The appeals court in West Palm Beach said what happened with Jimenez amounted to
a deportation and Fennelly had no authority to allow it. Immigration and
deportation is strictly the province of Congress and the federal courts, Newman
said.

Banks and Newman said they did not know whether Wednesday's ruling would allow
Jimenez to return to Stuart or whether they can compel Martin Memorial to pay
for better treatment where he is.

Jimenez, 31, was briefly hospitalized, Gaspar said, but now is living with his
mother in a poor town with little medical care available. "The only one taking
care of him is his mother," Gaspar said Wednesday. "He's still alive, but I
don't think he is getting any better."

Banks argued medical experts thought Jimenez could improve with the proper
follow-up care, but said Martin Memorial insisted on keeping him in the
acute-care hospital and going to court rather than looking at what was best for
him.

Hospital officials said Wednesday they had not had the chance to study the
ruling and could not predict whether they would appeal to the Florida Supreme
Court.

jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Luis Jimenez (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              104 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 May 6, 2004 Thursday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ORDER ALLOWING GUATEMALAN'S DISCHARGE TOSSED

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 593 words


An appeals court Wednesday overturned a Treasure Coast circuit judge's
controversial decision that allowed a hospital to send an illegal immigrant back
to his native Guatemala after he racked up more than $1 million in unpaid bills.

If the ruling by the 4th District Court of Appeal stands, it could have national
ramifications on the debate over how to pay for medical care for immigrants who
are sick or injured but don't qualify for government benefits because they are
in the country illegally.

"This decision sends a very clear message to two groups," said JoNel Newman, an
attorney with Florida Legal Services who worked on the case. "First, to the
Florida state courts . . . not to intrude into immigration matters. Second,
Florida health care centers . . . if you accept federal dollars, you are
required to provide care."

Hospitals that accept federal money from Medicaid cannot discharge patients
unless there is a treatment plan in place, even if that patient is not receiving
care under Medicaid.

The appeals court agreed with the legal guardian for Luis Jimenez, who argued
that Martin Memorial Medical Center in Stuart could not release the
brain-damaged migrant worker from the hospital without proof he would get the
care he needed in Guatemala.

Circuit Judge John Fennelly ruled in July 2003 that the hospital fulfilled its
obligation by providing a letter from a Guatemalan health official saying
Jimenez, hospitalized since a February 2000 crash caused by a drunken driver,
would receive appropriate care.

Attorney Michael Banks, representing Jimenez's guardian and cousin, Montejo
Gaspar, argued that Martin Memorial should have transferred Jimenez to a local
rehabilitation facility to cut down on their expenses and give him the care he
needed.

Martin Memorial officials arranged to have Jimenez flown to Guatemala shortly
after dawn on July 10 - as soon as they could under Fennelly's ruling.

The appeals court in West Palm Beach said what happened with Jimenez amounted to
a deportation and Fennelly had no authority to allow it. Immigration and
deportation is strictly the province of Congress and the federal courts, Newman
said.

Banks and Newman said they did not know whether Wednesday's ruling would allow
Jimenez to return to Stuart or whether they can compel Martin Memorial to pay
for better treatment where he is.

Jimenez, 31, was briefly hospitalized, Gaspar said, but now is living with his
mother in a poor town with little medical care available. "The only one taking
care of him is his mother," Gaspar said Wednesday. "He's still alive, but I
don't think he is getting any better."

Banks argued medical experts thought Jimenez could improve with the proper
follow-up care, but said Martin Memorial insisted on keeping him in the acute
care hospital and going to court rather than looking at what was best for him.

Newman said there have been other cases of hospitals getting stuck with medical
bills for illegal immigrants, but said in many situations hospitals work out
compromises or look to local government for financial help.

"Martin Memorial's behavior was just off the charts," she said.

Hospital officials said Wednesday they had not had the chance to study the
ruling and could not predict whether they would appeal to the Florida Supreme
Court.

Banks said that while the ruling may not provide Jimenez with everything he
needs, it may prevent a repeat of what happened in his case.

"This case was not only for Luis, but for future Luises," Banks said.

- jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Luis Jimenez: Allowing him to be sent home amounted to
deportation, court rules. (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              105 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 16, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SUGAR PILL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 423 words


Congress included in the 2003 Medicare law a provision that offers $1 billion to
emergency rooms that provide care to undocumented immigrants. Hospitals praised
the federal government for finally addressing a problem that its failed border
policy created.

Then came the catch: To collect the money, hospitals have to ask patients about
their immigration status. This casts emergency-room personnel in the role of
Border Patrol agents and again passes off federal responsibility to the states
and their hospitals. Illegal immigrants who fear deportation will be less likely
to seek treatment, and that raise worries about public health problems, such as
the spread of communicable diseases.

A 1986 law - federal, of course - requires hospitals to provide enough medical
care to stabilize patients without regard for the ability to pay. Floridians
became acquainted with the law's consequences through Luis Alberto Jimenez, a
32-year-old illegal immigrant from Guatemalan who sustained a brain injury in a
2000 car crash in Indiantown. Mr. Jimenez ran up about $1.5 million in bills at
Martin Memorial Medical Center until a judge allowed the hospital to return him
to Guatemala last year. Florida hospitals would be entitled to $9 million in the
new federal program, if they can find an unobtrusive way to question immigrant
patients about their status. Hospitals can't get reimbursed until they document
undocumented people. In many cases, it could cost more to do that than to treat
them for free.

The Department of Homeland Security announced last week another attempt to deal
with immigration with miscasting instead of common sense. The government is
empowering Border Patrol agents to deport illegal aliens caught within 100 miles
of the Mexican and Canadian borders. But Mexicans and Canadians, who account for
more than 70 percent of the illegal crossings, are exempted. People who might
have legitimate asylum claims will find it harder to make them. Border Patrol
agents will be asked to perform the roles of judges and decide on the fly
whether migrants face persecution in their homelands. The new plan will help
unclog the dockets of immigration courts but won't advance the nation's search
for a fair and effective way to control its borders.

Until the federal government is ready to accept its responsibility and consider
comprehensive reform, U.S. immigration policy will remain a hodgepodge of
contradictions and unintended consequences that doesn't suit Americans' economic
or security needs.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              106 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

            February 18, 2003 Tuesday tuesday SOUTH EDITION edition

IMMIGRANTS DASH FROM BOAT DOCKED AT EATERY eatery

BYLINE: The Associated Press press

SECTION: LOCAL, local, Pg. 2B 2B

LENGTH: 267 words words

DATELINE: DEERFIELD BEACH beach


Illegal migrants crowded aboard a cabin cruiser docked at a marina waited until
the dead of night, then scrambled ashore early Monday in a bid for new lives in
the United States.

The Broward County Sheriff's Office was able to round up 29 Haitian and Jamaican
refugees and one American suspected of smuggling them to the docks of the Cove
Restaurant and Marina.  marina.

It wasn't known how many might have slipped away.

"We are still trying to verify through interviews if there were additional
people who are at large," U.S. Border Patrol spokesman Keith Roberts said.

Cove Restaurant manager Bill Osgood said a cleaning woman alerted him that the
docks were full of people around 3:30 a.m. He said he saw about a dozen people
run from the dock and get into several waiting cars.

"They were dressed fairly decent. I saw some women carrying babies and stuff,"
Osgood said.

As many as 20 deputies swooped into the area after getting a call about the
landing, said Chief George Brennan of the sheriff's Deerfield Beach district.

Money was found aboard the 43-foot cabin cruiser and the Border Patrol is
confident the U.S. Attorney's Office will pursue a smuggling case against the
owner, Roberts said. He would not reveal the man's identity.

The 26 Haitian adult passengers, three Haitian children, and three Jamaican
adults will be put into expedited deportation proceedings under a new policy,
said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The policy was issued after more than 200 Haitian refugees jumped off a wooden
boat into Biscayne Bay in October.  october.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              107 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              May 15, 2003 Thursday thursday FINAL EDITION edition

18 SUSPECTED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SUFFOCATE INSIDE TRUCK IN TEXAS texas

BYLINE: By TONY PLOHETSKI Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 2A 2A

LENGTH: 646 words words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, TEXAS texas


The trailer of an 18-wheeler rig became a ghastly death trap on Wednesday when
18 people believed to be illegal immigrants suffocated along a rural Southeast
Texas highway.

Authorities said the driver stopped the rig near an Exxon gas station on U.S. 77
about 10 miles south of Victoria, unhitched the trailer and left as many as 100
men, women and children for dead.

"There is nothing in the world that can prepare you for what was in that
trailer," said Dexter Eaves, Victoria County district attorney.

A man who may be one of the smugglers was being questioned, said Michael Shelby,
U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Texas. He said Tyrone Williams of
Schenectady, N.Y., was arrested at a hospital in Bellaire near Houston. Shelby
declined to say why Williams, in whose name the trailer was registered, was at
the hospital.  hospital.

Williams had not been charged, but Shelby said he had assembled a team to
determine what charges to file and that a decision was expected today. Charges
could include transportation of illegal aliens and causing death, he said, and
conviction could carry the death penalty.

Two other suspects, a man and a woman, were being sought, Shelby said. Their
names were not released. Investigators had located the truck cab and were
attempting to seize it, Shelby said Wednesday night.

Federal officials said this was the highest death toll in recent history in a
case of smuggling undocumented immigrants along the southern border. The most
recent such case was in October, when the decomposed bodies of 11 men were found
in a railroad car in Iowa. The grain car had come from the Rio Grande Valley.

At the truck stop outside Victoria, 17 people were pronounced dead at the scene
and one died on the way to a hospital. The dead were loaded onto a refrigerated
truck and sent to Austin for autopsies by the Travis County medical examiner's
office. It was the largest single influx of bodies to the office since the 27
people were killed in the Jarrell tornado in May 1995.

At least 12 people were taken to Victoria area hospitals and treated for heat
exhaustion and dehydration.

As they fought for air, the desperate immigrants inside the trailer may have
tried to alert authorities. At 11:42 p.m. police in Kingsville - about 150 miles
south - received a 911 call from a Spanish speaker on a cellular phone with lots
of yelling, said Police Chief Sam Granato.

He said the dispatcher passed the call to someone who spoke Spanish, but the
call was cut off. The number couldn't be traced.

Ten minutes later, a Kingsville resident called to say he was on U.S. 77 when he
saw a hand waving a bandanna out of a hole in the back of a white 18-wheeler
with New York plates. Granato said it wasn't until later when a teletype came in
from Victoria that the dispatchers connected the two calls.

When officials listened to a digital recording of the original call, Granato
said, they were able to hear the man saying they were asphyxiating.

"He didn't know where they were at," said Granato, adding that the man also
said, "Help me" and "there's nine down."

Sheriff's deputies found the bodies about 2:15 a.m. when they answered a
disturbance call at the Speedy Stop truck stop, investigator Stuart Posey said.

The trailer had a refrigeration unit, but it was not working, Eaves said. Where
the truck had been loaded and where it was headed had not been determined.

Sheriff Michael Ratcliff said 13 bodies were found inside the trailer and four
on the ground outside. The trailer door was open, but investigators didn't know
whether the driver or someone else had opened it.

Among the dead were several children, Eaves said, including one whose age was
estimated at 5. The immigrants were from Mexico, El Salvador and Honduras,
Shelby said. He said 32 of them were in custody, including eight children.

tplohetski@statesman.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); ERIC GAY/The Associated Press A law enforcement official
standing by a covered body looks into a truck trailer containing more bodies.
Several children were among the dead.  dead.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              108 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

           September 13, 2003 Saturday saturday FINAL EDITION edition

RALLY PUSHES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT VISAS visas

BYLINE: By RENUKA RAYASAM Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 15A 15A

LENGTH: 300 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


Religious leaders joined Latino politicians Friday on Capitol Hill to push for
the U.S.A. Family Act, which would grant illegal residents permanent visas.

The bill is the latest in a series of measures that would make illegal residents
who have lived in the United States for at least five years legal residents.
residents.

The 30 or so people at the rain-soaked rally included leaders of the Global
Evangelism Task Force, a nonprofit that supports Christian missions, and Rep.
Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., who sponsored the bill.

The AFL-CIO, which resisted attempts to increase immigration until a few years
ago, also supports the bill. Unions are seeking to bolster their membership with
the growing Hispanic population.

About 8 million illegal immigrants live in the United States, according to the
Census Bureau.

The U.S.A. Family Act, which is the most far reaching of several different
amnesty proposals, also includes provisions to allow spouses and children of
those who meet the bill's conditions to acquire permanent visas.

The group has collected about 100,000 signatures backing the legislation.

But, "I think it's not very likely that we'll move on this legislation," said
Jeff Lungren, spokesman for the House Judiciary Committee. "There's no
bipartisan support."

All of the co-sponsors are Democrats.

Efforts to extend immigration once showed signs of promise, but after Sept. 11,
backlash against immigration and security concerns have stalled them.

Such efforts "roll out welcome wagon to illegal immigrants, threatening the
lives of innocent Americans," said David Ray, spokesman for the Federation of
American Immigration Reform, a group that wants to limit immigration. "It lays
out hope for those who crash our borders, and rewards illegal behavior."

rrayasam@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              109 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              October 24, 2003 Friday friday FINAL EDITION edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HELPING STATES TO ADD U.S. HOUSE SEATS seats

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 16A 16A

LENGTH: 292 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


The recent influx of illegal immigrants has changed the makeup of the U.S. House
of Representatives, giving California three new seats as North Carolina added
one, a study has found.

The Center for Immigration Studies found that the nation's system of
reapportioning the House by a Census count of all residents, whether they are
legal or not, rewards states with the most illegal immigrants while penalizing
others.  others.

Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi and Montana each lost a congressional seat as a
result of illegal immigration elsewhere, the study said.

The redistribution of House seats is evidence that historic immigration flows
are having "a very significant impact on the political landscape," said Steve
Camarota, a co-author of the study and research director for the research group,
which favors a reduction in immigration.

Among other findings released Wednesday:

- The growing numbers of all non-citizens - both legal and illegal - prompted
nine House seats to change states after the 2000 Census. The population trend
was responsible for six of California's new seats as well as one each for Texas,
Florida and New York. The losing states were Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi,
Montana, Kentucky, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Utah and Wisconsin.

- Some congressional districts have so many non-citizens and so few voters that
it takes less than 35,000 votes to win an election, compared with almost 100,000
votes in a typical district. In South Florida, Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a
Republican, represents a constituency that is 28 percent non-citizen.

- Despite efforts to naturalize newcomers, the number of non-citizens increased
dramatically to 18.5 million in 2000, up from just under 12 million in 1990.

- jmalone@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              110 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             January 13, 2004 Tuesday tuesday FINAL EDITION edition

FOX BACKS BUSH MIGRATION PLAN AT SUMMIT summit

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 3A 3A

LENGTH: 930 words words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, MEXICO mexico


Buoyed by the public support of Mexican President Vicente Fox, President Bush
vigorously defended his new proposal for temporary work visas for millions of
illegal immigrants as the Summit of the Americas got underway Monday.

The two leaders, in a joint news conference after face-to-face talks,
demonstrated a thaw in relations as Fox embraced Bush's migration proposal. Fox
called it "a very important step forward" for millions of Mexican illegal
immigrants in the United States.

Bush called his proposal "the right thing for America to do." do."

Fox also warmed to progress in Iraq, congratulating Bush for capturing Saddam
Hussein and planning to take the former dictator to trial. The development, said
Fox, who had opposed the U.S.-led war, "is for the better of all nations, all
families, all people in the world that want to live in peace without terrorism."

Bush and Fox met privately before beginning a two-day summit with more than 30
other leaders. Bush and his counterparts are set to talk about poverty and
development needs in a region where 44 percent of the population doesn't have
enough money to cover basic needs.

In remarks at the summit's opening, Bush said countries should eradicate
corruption and improve education and help for small businesses. The region, he
said, must "chart a clear course toward a vibrant free market that will help
lift people out poverty and create a healthy middle class."

"Trade is the most certain path to lasting prosperity," said Bush, whose Latin
American policy centerpiece is the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas,
which would remove barriers to imports and investment throughout the hemisphere.

Bush invited Fox to visit his Crawford, Texas, ranch March 5-6, signaling a
revival of a close relationship strained over war in Iraq.

Thousands of protestors were expected. Instead, a mere two hundred anarchists,
communists, environmentalists and fellow travelers marched the streets, halting
whenever confronted with symbols of corporate America.

The Coca-Cola delivery truck on Avenida Benito Juarez now sports an anarchist
"A" on its side. The nearby 7-Eleven was defaced with an undecipherable
spray-painted message.

Mexican police had promised to brook no insubordination during the two-day
Summit of the Americas, but mostly left the group alone. Intensive security
measures - involving thousands of police, steel barricades and closed roadways -
insulated President Bush and the other leaders.

On migration, Fox appeared to abandon a previous position urging U.S. lawmakers
to grant migrants points toward legal U.S. residency. Immigrants could, if
Congress approves Bush's plan, receive temporary work visas good for three to
six years before having to return to their home countries.

"We totally agree, and are aware that the proposal should be discussed, broadly
discussed, analyzed, particularly in the Congress of the United States," said
Fox, who has eagerly pushed for a U.S. migration deal since he took office in
December 2000.

Bush called his proposal "the right thing for America to do."

"Under this program the United States will benefit from the honest labor of
foreign workers. Our neighbors will benefit as productive citizens return home
with money to invest and to spend in their own nation's economy. This program
will be more humane, humane to workers, and will live up to the highest ideals
of our nations," he said.

On Iraq, Bush was asked if he felt "betrayed" by former Treasury Secretary Paul
O'Neill's recent allegation that he and his advisers planned to invade Iraq long
before the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

"First, let say, I appreciate former Secretary O'Neill's service to our country.
We worked together during some difficult times," Bush said.

Evading a direct answer, Bush added: "The stated policy of my administration
towards Saddam Hussein was very clear. Like the previous administration, we were
for regime change."

After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Bush said, he felt compelled to protect U.S.
security. Asked if he had reservations about the war as the U.S. death toll in
Iraq approaches 500, Bush said: "A democratic, free Iraq is in the national
interests of our country."

"Vicente Fox is a good enough friend for him to be able to express his opinion
to me without the loss of friendship," Bush added. "And he didn't agree with the
decision I made. But the decision I made was the right one for America. And
history will prove it's the right one for the world."

Bush's migration proposal, which he announced last week in a speech, would allow
illegal immigrants with jobs to come forward to receive temporary three-year
work visas that could be renewed for another three years if employers choose.

Employers would have to prove that U.S. workers are not interested in the jobs.
Immigrants would not be given an amnesty, or the right to accrue points toward
becoming legal U.S. residents or U.S. citizens.

"I oppose amnesty because it encourages the violation of our laws and
perpetuates illegal immigration," Bush said. "My proposal expects that most
temporary workers will eventually return permanently to their home countries
when the period of work that I will be negotiating with the Congress has
expired."

Democrats have accused Bush of attempting to pander to Hispanic voters as he
approaches his bid for reelection in November. The migration plan, some analysts
suggest, has little chance of passing Congress during an election year.

Cox News Service's Dan Chapman contributed to this story.

sferriss@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              111 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

           February 21, 2004 Saturday saturday FINAL EDITION edition

U.S., MEXICO TO TIGHTEN SECURITY ON BORDER border

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 23A 23A

LENGTH: 369 words words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY city


U.S. and Mexican officials agreed Friday to tighten security along their border
and devise a plan to repatriate Mexican illegal immigrants to their home states
in the interior of Mexico rather than deporting them to cities along the border.

"Together we need to reinforce secure and orderly repatriation of migrants to
their places of origin," Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said Friday after
talks with Mexican Interior Secretary Santiago Creel.

Mexico has offered "extraordinary" cooperation with the United States, Ridge
said. The two sides agreed to beef up border patrols and cooperate more closely
to identify potential terrorist threats. U.S. concerns about airport security
led to the cancellation of two U.S.-bound flights from Mexico City in December.
december.

U.S. agents deport thousands of illegal immigrants a month to Mexican cities
just across the U.S. border. From there, migrants usually try to cross again.
Repeat attempts are often part of the deal migrants cut with smugglers.

The proposal to return illegal immigrants to locations deep inside Mexico could
generate controversy, since Mexico's constitution forbids restrictions on its
citizens' travel inside the country.

Creel said because of the constitutional provision, migrants probably would have
to volunteer, not be forced, to accept a bus or plane ride back to their state
of origin from the United States.

Although the governments would like to start the new repatriation plan by this
summer, details must be worked out. Ridge said it's uncertain which country
would pay for the flights or bus rides, or how many estimated migrants a day
would be transported back into Mexico.

Creel said Mexico's government agreed to try the new repatriation plan because
of "human rights" concerns. Mexico accepts the premise that fewer deaths might
occur if migrants were moved away from the border.

"We are aware" that higher temperatures in the desert are "fast approaching,"
Ridge said.

In September, in a pilot program that lasted 23 days, U.S. immigration
authorities flew more than 6,200 migrants detained along the Arizona border to
Texas and deported them into cities south of the Lone Star state.

sferriss@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              112 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 27, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

NEW ABUSE OF WORKERS TAKES ROOT

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 769 words


The roaring economy of the 1990s did create its share of losers. In the South,
most of the casualties were immigrants, and some of the hardest-hit were migrant
workers in the forestry business. Traditionally, poor whites had done the work
of replanting American forests. But that started to change a decade ago, when
the economy took off and poor whites moved on to better opportunities the boom
created. Tree planting is back-breaking work for minimum wage, with no benefits,
so most anything else qualifies as better.

The industry turned to foreigners to fill its shortage of unskilled labor.
Immigrants from Mexico, Guatemala and Panama who were lucky to make $6 a day in
their homelands came to the United States, lured by the prospects of making that
much in an hour. Often, however, that did not happen, and the U.S. Department of
Labor is investigating widespread allegations of wage and hour abuse by the
industry.

The government's interest follows three civil lawsuits filed in Florida by the
Migrant Farm Worker Justice Project in Belle Glade. The class-action suits are
directed against Georgia-Pacific and International Paper, corporate giants that
rely on contractors to handle seedling planting.

"The whole game is about phonying up the records," says Greg Schell, attorney
for the Belle Glade advocate group. "I don't know any group that's gotten
cheated worse - not the farm workers, the pickers, not the (sugar) cane-cutters.
These people were getting paid half of what they deserved."

Mr. Schell believes the type of temporary visas that allow the timber industry's
immigrants to come here makes them powerless to deal with payroll violations.
The government gives forest planters H2B visas (about one page of regulations)
and agricultural workers H2A visas (about 25 pages).

Besides complexity, the critical difference is requirements placed on employers.
Agricultural companies, the vegetable farmers, must provide their temporary
workers transportation and housing; the tree companies are required only to pay
the prevailing wage. The H2B workers often find themselves trapped, their
paychecks consumed by subsistence.

The relationship between the corporations and the planting contractors they hire
is central to the court cases. Georgia-Pacific, for example, has argued that the
contractors are the planters' employers. The corporations deny responsibility
for what goes on in the field, though they often own the land.

Their effort to insulate themselves is remarkable. During court testimony,
International Paper officials admitted that they require every contractor to
submit wage and hour information in sealed envelopes and instruct their
employees not to open them for three years. The corporations say they know of no
abuse. They don't - because they make sure they don't open the envelopes. It's
the Pontius Pilate approach to corporate responsibility.

Labor Department officials say contractors often violate the law by counting
only the hours workers planted and not those spent loading trucks or driving to
fields. The average worker can plant about 2,000 trees a day. A contractor may
pay only $20 per bag of 1,000 trees, meaning the worker would earn $40 for eight
hours' work. To keep the wage above the legal minimum, the contractor would
adjust the books to show only five hours' work.

More than 15,000 immigrants, most of them Mexican and concentrated in the
Southeast, come each year on temporary visas to plant millions of trees. A few
hundred planters work in Florida, mostly in the west Panhandle. U.S. District
Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola is expected to make a summary judgment on the
lawsuits within the next couple of months.

Besides its fundamental unfairness, the current system encourages legal
immigrants to become illegal immigrants. Mr. Schell tells the story of the
Guatemalan who mortgaged everything he owned to raise the $900 to come here and
plant trees. On arriving, he learns not only that his transportation expenses
won't be reimbursed but that he'll do well to earn $250 a week.

"He literally gets frantic," Mr. Schell says. "He realizes he can never make the
money back. He's so far in debt he has to jump from planting trees to working
illegally in another job."

Undocumented workers flee the timber industry for the textile mills of Georgia,
the meat plants of Arkansas and the construction sites of Florida. What choice
did the U.S. government and corporate America leave them?

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              113 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 7, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

PLAN WORKS FOR WORKERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 425 words


Virtually everyone in Congress supports a guest worker program that would allow
immigrants to come to the United States legally and temporarily fill essential
jobs. But that's about as far as the consensus goes. When it gets to the details
- the terms of residency, wages and employee rights - attempts at writing
legislation wind up alienating one side of the larger immigration debate or the
other.

For months, Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., has tried to cultivate support for an H-2A
agricultural guest worker plan that would help ensure a reliable labor pool for
the state's growers. His bill would allow farm workers to gain permanent U.S.
residency by working 150 days annually in five of seven years. Sen. Graham wants
the Department of Labor to create a computer registry to compile the foreign
workers' records, a task the department says it can't do. In the U.S. House,
Reps. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, and Robert Wexler, D-Boca Raton, have
proposed similar legislation which features a wrinkle that would allow farmers
to pay workers $4 a day for housing instead of providing it for them. Where does
one live for $120 a month? Last month, Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, introduced a
bill that would reduce the 150-day requirement for residency to a four-year
period but also would reduce workers' wages by $1-$2 an hour.

Immigrant advocates and agriculture unions oppose each of these versions,
correctly believing they would codify the exploitation and shameful conditions
the nation's 600,000 undocumented farm workers have endured for decades. Last
week, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., announced
their version of guest worker reform, and it is unprecedented in at least one
regard. This is the first program most farm worker groups say they can support.

Sen. Kennedy and Rep. Berman would allow residency after 90 days of work in
three out of four years, pay wages based on local averages, permit organization
of unions and prohibit the use of H-2A workers as strikebreakers. Unlike
previous proposals, the bill shifts some leverage from employers to employees
and lifts immigrants from current treatment that often resembles indentured
servitude.

Rep. Berman concedes that the legislation "is not ideal" and will not fix all
problems or abuses in the fields. But it is a significant advance in a new
direction - a first step toward fair and reasonable changes that allow foreign
workers to earn a living wage and avoid abject poverty doing jobs native
Americans don't want.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              114 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 2, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

UNIONS U-TURN, BEGIN COURTING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Organized labor has traditionally opposed immigrant workers, saying they take
jobs from Americans and drive down wages.

But after decades in which union membership has declined sharply to just 13.5
percent of the work force, labor leaders are now embracing those they once
shunned.

In fact, organized labor has spent much of this summer campaigning for immigrant
causes, including broad amnesty for those who are here illegally.

On Labor Day, AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and other union leaders will be in
Los Angeles speaking at a Catholic Mass where immigrant rights will be the
focus.

This week, when President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico are expected
to announce an agreement on immigration, unions are planning to respond with a
rally on the Capitol steps.

AFL-CIO leaders are also calling for abolishing a federal law that makes it a
crime for employers to hire illegal immigrants. Only 15 years ago, the unions
pressured Congress to pass those same employer sanctions.

Now the unions are reaching out to immigrants, both legal and illegal.

The Service Employees International Union, whose members include janitors and
nursing care workers, has attracted unskilled newcomers, including an unknown
number that union officials say are here illegally.

The new union members come from Mexico, Haiti and countries in eastern Europe.

While other unions are losing members, the SEIU has almost doubled its
membership to 1.4 million during the past 1 1/2 decades. About 60 percent are
immigrants, said Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the union and one of
the strongest union voices for immigrant causes.

"For us, the immigrants have brought a whole new level of excitement and
enthusiasm," Medina said. "It's been an infusion of fresh blood in our union
that has helped us to build a movement."

The pendulum has swung so far on immigration that the SEIU arranged for
publicity Wednesday, when the University of California at Los Angeles released a
study advocating broad amnesty for illegals and opening the borders to a huge
new visa program for foreign workers.

Another union, Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees, whose membership has
shrunk during the past three decades, is trying to make a comeback by organizing
immigrants, who now represent about 75 percent of its members. Union President
John Wilhelm joined other labor leaders in meeting with top Mexican officials in
June to offer their input into the Bush-Fox negotiations.

Traditional trade unions for auto workers, steel workers and other industries
have not raised public objections. But a new Zogby poll, to be released this
week by a group that is critical of immigration, indicates that the union
leaders might be out of step with the rank-and-file.

The poll of more than 1,000 people includes 200 union households and found that
60 percent oppose amnesty for illegal immigrants. The same poll, which the
Center for Immigration Studies commissioned, suggests that 55 percent of the
public as a whole thinks granting amnesty is a "bad" or "very bad" idea.

Reversing the unions' traditional anti-immigrant stand puts American worker
rights at risk, one expert says.

In a recent book on immigration and labor unions, Cornell University Professor
Vernon M. Briggs Jr. points to trends showing that union membership has gone up
during times of low immigration and down when immigration is high.

He notes that in 1965, when only about 4.4 percent of workers were immigrants,
30 percent of the U.S. work force was unionized. Today about 13 percent of
workers are immigrants, and union membership last year dipped to just 13.5
percent of the work force.

"Immigration is basically keeping the low-skilled labor market in a constant
state of surplus, and that's why wages are not going up at the bottom," he said.
"If there was such a shortage of labor, you ought to see wages soaring, and
they're not."

Medina, who immigrated from Mexico more than three decades ago and has spent
much of his career unionizing fellow immigrant workers, rejected the professor's
criticism.

"I think he is wrong," Medina said. "Our experience has shown that when you
organize undocumented workers, that wages rise for everyone, that conditions
improve across the board."

Medina did not dispute that a bigger supply of labor can hold down wages, but he
argued that restrictions on immigration don't work.

"There's nothing that we in the labor movement can do in terms of reducing the
flow," he said.

"What we can do is make sure that, when workers are here, that they are not
exploited, that they have an opportunity to organize and advocate for
themselves."

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              115 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 27, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

VISA LIMIT MAY PINCH BUSINESSES

BYLINE: By DAVID SEDORE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 650 words


The pool of highly skilled foreign workers is about to become much shallower,
and that could set off a stampede among the thousands of companies that dip into
it for new talent.

Congress faces a Wednesday deadline to extend a program that allows companies
each year to hire as many as 195,000 foreign workers who possess skills that are
scarce among Americans. If it doesn't act - and most observers believe it won't
because of high unemployment nationally - the annual limit drops to 65,000.

"It's going to make it more difficult for us," said Mary Masty, director of
human resources at Geosyntec Consultants, a Boca Raton-based national science
and engineering firm that makes use of the program, called the H-1B visa. "The
low cap is going to be a problem."

The visa program allows foreign workers to stay in the United States for as long
as six years. Companies have to certify that they can't find U.S. workers with
the required skills and that they're paying workers the prevailing wage.

Last year, 197,537 visa applications were approved, including 109,000 initial
visas, according to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration. Nearly half of
the applicants held master's degrees or doctorates, and about 64,000 came from
India, the largest contributor.

The visa program is especially popular among high tech companies.

But other companies - big and small - use it as well. Labor Department records
show Boca Raton-based Sunbeam Corp., Delray Beach-based Office Depot Inc. and
Dempsey's, an Irish bar in Palm Beach that has since changed owners and names,
among the local companies that have hired through the program. The Florida
Marlins also have used H-1B visas for personnel other than players.

With unemployment high, especially among tech workers, critics claim that the
program is taking jobs that could be filled by Americans. By one estimate given
the Senate Judiciary Committee last week, 7.7 percent of electrical engineers
are out of work.

"The intent is to augment the workforce already here, not replace it," said
Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration.

Masty said there aren't enough Americans with degrees in the earth and physical
sciences or engineering to meet demand. At Geosyntec, about 55 percent of the
professional staff holds master's degrees, with 25 percent Ph.D.s.

Geosyntec tries to give Americans first crack. "We always advertise . . .
openings on America's Job Bank," Masty said. "That's the government site that
goes to every state and is used in unemployment offices. We get few resumes at
the professional level. It's not easy."

Using H-1B workers is expensive, costing Geosyntec $4,500 per employee on
average, including government fees and legal expenses, Masty said.

Alan Seagrave, an attorney in the Miami office of Steele Hector & Davis who
handles immigration law matters for employers, said companies filled only 79,000
of the 195,000 visas available, mainly because of the soft economy. Still,
demand would outstrip supply if the limit is reduced next week.

"People will definitely be reacting to the change," Seagrave said.

david_sedore@pbpost.com

Foreign workers

Palm Beach County companies have made good use of the H-1B visa program to bring
in foreign workers. Here is a sampling of the companies that have used the
program and the number of applications they made between Oct. 1, 2000, and Sept.
30, 2002:

%%
Company                        City           Number*

Siemens                       Boca Raton      127

Florida Atlantic University   Boca Raton       33

Office Depot                  Delray Beach     23

FPL Group                     Juno Beach       20

Daleen Technologies           Boca Raton        14

Sunbeam                       Boca Raton        8

IBM                           Boca Raton        8

%% *Number of H-1B workers employed at each company could be more or less than
numbers shown here.

Source: U.S. Department of Labor database

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              116 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 9, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

U.S. 'GUEST WORKER' VISA A PITTED ROAD NOT TAKEN

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 358 words


H2 visas are issued to foreign workers so they can work legally in the United
States. Many immigration experts see the visas as part of the answer to the
worrisome migrant worker situation that sees hundreds die every year trying to
sneak into the U.S.

But very few U.S. firms that employ migrants, including in Florida, use H2
programs.

According to Tom Canahuate, a diplomat at the U.S. consulate in Monterrey,
66,379 such visas were issued in Mexico in the last fiscal year ending: 24,946
H2A visas for agricultural workers and 41,433 H2B visas for other jobs. Only
2,423 of the total number were for work in Florida.

So why not use H2 workers, especially in agriculture?

"Employers have always insisted that H2A is too much of a hassle, makes too many
demands on them," says attorney Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker Justice
Project.

The program requires employers to pay workers' travel expenses into and out of
the U.S. and to pay a wage commensurate with that of Americans working in the
industry. Employers also must provide free housing for employees.

But employers aren't the only ones who have problems with the H2 program.

"There have been awful abuses of H2A workers over the years," says Schell. The
visas allow a migrant to work only for the employer who sponsors the visa. If
the worker is abused in any way, he can quit, but must leave the country. Many
put up with abuse, including cheating on wages, rather than report their bosses.

This year, efforts have been made to amend the H2 program. Republicans and
Democrats in Congress, as well as growers and farm workers, reached an agreement
that would streamline the H2 process. Wages will be frozen for three years, but
workers will be able to take employers to federal court. The agreement could be
voted on in Congress by early next year.

- Reported by John Lantigua and Christine Stapleton

More are illegal now

The percentage of migrant farm workers who are in the United States illegally
has grown in the last decade.

Workers here illegally

%% 1993 62.8%

2000 66.6%

%% Source: Labor Department's National Agricultural Worker's Survey 2000.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 3 OF 3Info box at end of
text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer A legal way to the U.S.A.:
Outside the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey, Mexico, Ana Ditrolio, a recruiter for
Labor Solutions in Denver, waits for her workers to get their visas. The H2 visa
- or temporary 'guest worker' permit - allows Mexican laborers to take jobs in
the United States.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              117 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 9, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SOME HIDDEN COSTS OF MIGRANT LABOR

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 432 words


A Palm Beach Post survey of local agencies in Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie
counties found nearly $21.5 million in services to migrants. The total is likely
to be much higher because hospitals and health care agencies say they cannot
break out their considerable costs of treating the laborers.

PUBLIC SAFETY AND CITIES

Palm Beach County's 911 emergency dispatch center

- $90,000 a year for interpreters

Palm Beach County's court interpreting services

- $605,241 for fiscal year 2002

Palm Beach County Sheriff

- Increased Hispanic officers from 115 in 1967 to 157 today

St. Lucie County Sheriff

- Has hired 25 Spanish-speaking and three Creole-speaking deputies

St. Lucie County courts

- $20 to $30 an hour for Spanish and Creole interpreters

Lake Worth

- Loses thousands of dollars a year in federal and state money because 15 to 30
percent of its population - undocumented immigrants - weren't counted by the
U.S. Census, according to Mayor Rodney Romano

- Hundreds of thousands of dollars a year on police, code enforcement and other
services to immigrants; in 1994 alone, city estimated its immigrant explosion
cost the police department $220,000; since then, immigrant population has grown.

EDUCATION

Palm Beach County School District

- $2.1 million from federal government to help educate 7,100 children of migrant
workers

- $5.6 million a year to help students whose native language is not English

Palm Beach County

Migrant Education Program

- $300,000 a year for education and job training for 150 migrants

Martin County School District

- $4,510,288 for its 1,264 English as a Second Language students

- An estimated $1,166,837 on adult education programs for migrants

- $220,00 for summer program for migrant students

HEALTH

Quantum Foundation

- $150,000 for two-year health care delivery project in Mayan community

- $147,150 for Senor Stuffee and Project Hola, three-year public health
education program for Hispanic children

- $150,000 for mobile mammography services for women in minority neighborhoods

- $213,000 for 60 months of Spanish language Planned Parenthood outreach

- $300,000 for three-year hospice information and care for Hispanic and black
seniors

SOCIAL SERVICES

United Way of Palm Beach County

- Almost $200,000 a year to seven agencies providing a variety of services to
migrants, including $117,490 to Farmworker Coordinating Council of Palm Beach
County; also funds a variety of other agencies that serve migrant farm workers.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 3 OF 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer The shelter of play:
Migrant Head Start student Cynthia Knie, 5, of Belle Glade, plays with
classmates at the Redlands Christian Migrant Association's O'Brien Community
Learning Center in Belle Glade. Cynthia, whose first language is Spanish, is a
child of migrant farm workers who arrived here for the vegetable harvest after
working on farms in northern states.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              118 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 14, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

SUPPORT GROWS FOR IMMIGRANT AMNESTY

BYLINE: By JANE DAUGHERTY, CHRISTINE EVANS and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post
Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1767 words


Two key immigration bills stuck for months in Congress promise more jobs and
safer lives for migrant workers while guaranteeing a continued supply of cheap
foreign labor for U.S. employers. Unexpectedly, the measures now are gaining new
support that could lead to passage early next year.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge surprised many observers Tuesday in Miami
when he called for the U.S. to grant some form of legal resident status to
millions of illegal immigrants.

"I think there's a growing consensus that, sooner rather than later, we need to
deal with the reality that these men, women and families are here, many
contributing - most contributing - to their community, paying taxes, paying into
Social Security," Ridge said. "We have to legalize their status."

That could be accomplished under a bill nicknamed the AgJOBS Act, which would
make millions of migrant workers eligible for legal resident status. It also
could greatly increase the number of agricultural guest workers and extend
protections to them to combat smuggling of foreign workers and inhumane working
conditions, such as those documented in The Palm Beach Post's recent series,
Modern-Day Slavery.

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., one of the sponsors of the AgJOBS bill, along with
Florida Sen. Bob Graham, called Ridge's comments "quite a positive contribution
to the momentum that's building for the bill."

Berman said with Graham and 48 other senators, including 24 Republicans, signed
up as cosponsors, "We're building up a real head of steam for passage in the
Senate," perhaps as early as January.

House passage will be harder, but Berman still predicts that, with "the
tremendous support of growers around the country, from the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the AFL-CIO, most of the major immigrant advocacy groups and
endorsement from non-agriculture industries," the House will pass AgJOBS in the
first quarter of 2004.

Another pending bill, the proposed Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of
2003, would go even further and greatly expand the foreign guest worker program
beyond agriculture. It also would allow illegal immigrants who can prove they
have worked for a specified time for a U.S. employer to apply for legal
residency.

The White House has been silent about immigration amnesty since talks with
Mexican President Vicente Fox broke down after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

After Ridge's remarks last week, White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan told
reporters that President Bush still wants to "match willing workers with willing
employers," suggesting Bush will support some version of the earlier proposal
calling for more guest workers and legalization of at least 3 million immigrants
now in the country illegally.

Ridge's spokesman, Brian Roehrkasse, said in an interview Friday that Ridge was
not speaking about specific immigration legislation in his Miami remarks but
supports measures that would allow the U.S. to collect identity and residency
information on those illegal immigrants.

"How to keep track of people who are in the country illegally has been in the
forefront of our concerns since 9-11," Roehrkasse said. "The secretary was
talking about the 8-12 million people in the U.S. illegally. To us it's about
our mission to secure our borders. We need some method of keeping track of where
these people are."

Fear of deportation makes voluntary registration unlikely unless, as the Bush
administration has suggested, limited work permits and driver licenses are
offered to those in the U.S. illegally.

Act protects workers

Others who want immigration reform higher on the national agenda are more
concerned with widespread human rights violations than registration for national
security reasons.

Rob Williams, director of the Migrant Farmworkers Justice Project based in
Tallahassee, said AgJOBS would take significant steps in protecting agricultural
workers from exploitation.

It would expand and modify the agricultural guest worker program known as H2-A.
Formally named the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of
2003, the bill's text says its aim is "to provide a stable, legal agricultural
workforce, to extend basic legal protections and better working conditions to
more workers."

Williams said Ridge's comments Tuesday appear to signal a shift in the Bush
administration toward supporting AgJOBS. "That's our first sign for a while that
the administration may support this. That's really critical."

He said of the bill, "It's a compromise." And in terms of what Mexico wants,
"This is not the whole enchilada, but it's something."

Not everyone agrees that it's a positive step. Dan Stein, executive director of
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, said, "We believe the
new legislation is totally inconsistent with what government priorities ought to
be at the moment. The priority should be security.

"Experience shows that this legalization will encourage more people to come
illegally as happened after the 1986 amnesty (when 1.3 million illegal
immigrants became citizens). We should tell the Mexicans that the Congress - the
American people - control immigration, not the potential employers."

Stein said the AgJOBS Act's three-year guest worker legalization provision is
"amnesty on the installment plan. It will dramatically overburden Homeland
Security," which will have to be dealing with the legalization, including
processing questionable and false documents presented by some people who apply.

Instead of immigration reform including legalization of some illegal workers,
Stein said, "We need first to control immigration, improve interior enforcement,
improve document security and decrease document fraud."

Citrus growers back bill

But Mike Carlton of Florida Citrus Mutual, a trade group that represents most of
the state's citrus growers who are heavily dependent on migrant labor, said the
AgJOBS bill is a positive step for Florida farmers.

"We certainly are optimistic about the bill. We very much support it," he said.
"I think any time you have a bill that is supported so broadly by so many
sectors of industry, you have to take it seriously."

Craig Regelbrugge of the American Nursery & Landscape Association, with 2,300
members nationwide, also is enthusiastic in his support of AgJOBS.

"We've had a broken agricultural labor system in this country for a long, long
time," Regelbrugge said. "There are many jobs in all of agriculture that are
physically demanding and highly seasonal. Frankly, they are not the jobs most
Americans are anxious to get out and do.

"So as we stand here today we have in agriculture a workforce estimated to be 70
percent undocumented. That's problem No. 1: We have an illegal workforce that is
feeding our nation."

He said the second problem is that the guest worker program is dysfunctional.

'These bills are a sham'

That's just one of the "lies being told by supporters of the amnesty-granting
immigration bills," said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., chairman of the
Congressional Reform Caucus. "These bills are a sham. This is an amnesty program
masquerading as immigration reform.

"The costs of these bills to taxpayers would be enormous. The only thing cheap
about cheap labor is the cost to the employer. Cheap labor costs American
taxpayers a fortune. We just passed $1 billion in the Medicare bill specifically
designated for illegal immigrant health care - it says right in the bill,
'illegal immigrant health care.' "

Tancredo said he is incensed that the Bush administration and other Republicans
may be supporting the measures. "This is voodoo public policy," Tancredo said.
"We're not being honest with the American people, and they are the ones who will
have to pay for the long-term costs for creating a huge underclass."

The bills do incur costs to the government and pose trade-offs, including
freezing the wage rate of guest workers for three years at a maximum of $8.42 a
hour. But improving living conditions and eliminating sometimes fatal desert
crossings for millions of migrant workers who pick America's fruits and
vegetables is a high priority for Bishop Thomas Wenski of Orlando, chairman of
the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops migration committee.

"I see it (AgJOBS) as a very positive thing," said Wenski, a longtime human
rights advocate. "It promotes the common good because it will also allow the
growers to stabilize their workforce. We are very hopeful that it passes.

"It has the potential to legalize 3 million people, including some 100,000 in
Florida."

Wenski said another positive provision in AgJOBS gives migrant workers the
chance to go to court to defend their labor rights. "This will allow these
workers a chance to live under the law and not in its shadows."

Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of 2003

Here is a summary of provisions of S. 1645 and H.R. 3142, known as AgJOBS,
introduced by Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and
Reps. Chris Cannon, R-Utah, and Howard Berman, D-Calif.

Offers amnesty for illegal immigrants who work in agriculture for three years
and permits much broader admission of foreign agricultural guest workers.

Allows immediate family members of agricultural workers preferential status for
admission to the U.S.

Amends the Social Security Act to provide for the correction of such immigrants'
Social Security records.

Makes illegal immigrant applicants for amnesty eligible for taxpayer-funded
attorneys and legal services through the Legal Services Corporation to file
their amnesty claims and contest denials.

Defines 'agricultural worker' to include forestry workers, landscapers,
processing plant workers, mechanics and irrigation technicians.

Requires that workers granted amnesty under H.R. 3142 work 575 hours of
agricultural work (or 100 work days) to receive permanent resident status.

'Need' for guest workers will be determined by employers and the Labor
Department.

The Senate version would eliminate the employers' responsibility to provide
housing and travel expenses for guest workers. Employers will not be responsible
for providing transportation for workers who live as far as 60 miles from their
place of employment. Employers would not be required to provide workers with
tools or meals.

Guest workers would be allowed to sue employers or contractors for violations of
labor laws.

Sources: The Congressional Record, the Associated Press, Rep. Howard Berman,
D-Calif.

PalmBeachPost.com

Read The Post's special report on migrant workers, Modern Day Slavery.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              119 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 18, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

RED PLANET MEANS TRAIL OF RED INK

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 731 words


President Bush has offered two proposals that appeal to human migration and the
dreams that drive it.

His idea to create a legal path to the United States for immigrant workers is
supposed to make sense of the nation's unmanageable borders and end a
hypocritical system that recruits foreigners for menial labor and then reviles
them once they get here.

His other idea is to chart a path through borderless time and space to Mars. He
has directed NASA to develop a spacecraft capable of reaching the red planet,
with the goal of getting there by 2030. He also wants to establish a permanent
base on the moon within 20 years.

The White House has trumpeted the proposals as evidence of Mr. Bush's vision.
There is no coincidence that these broad - and, to some, bold - policy
initiatives come as people concentrate on election campaigns. Behind the talk of
borders that are more open and space missions that explore ever deeper is the
calculation that Americans have imaginations that require regular feeding.

Mr. Bush is right on that. But he sells short the need for attainable targets.
Imagination without accessibility is fantasy, which is a fine diversion from the
real world but not the stuff that moves nations. The president wants the country
to embrace the dream of human beings landing on Mars, and he wants immigrants to
believe the American dream is within their reach. But how accessible is either,
really?

Immigration plan also a ruse

When President Kennedy challenged the nation in 1962 to put a man on the moon,
he said it would happen by the end of the decade, and he had the money in the
Treasury to back it up. Mr. Bush has set his target a quarter-century away. It
is questionable whether he will be around when the Mars mission lifts off; many
of those trumpeting his bold plan won't be.

This presumably is an intergenerational challenge meant to guide young people
who are students or are beginning careers in science. These are the same young
people Mr. Bush is saddling with debt from the mounting budget deficit his
administration has created. He says he will give NASA $1 billion of new money to
begin its Mars program. Since the costs will run at least 500 times that, he is
passing the bill to the next generation with his vision. Americans prefer an
idea man who's a bit more accountable.

In his call to change U.S. immigration policy, the president again invoked
rhetoric that's seated deep in the national imagination: "Our nation needs an
immigration system that serves the American economy and reflects the American
dream."

The suggestion is that Mr. Bush has come up with a plan that will make the
American dream accessible to millions of immigrants, which he has not. What he
has proposed offers foreign workers a job but gives them little means of
actually sharing as full partners in the American experience.

Worst of the guest-worker programs

Most of the worst provisions of the many failed guest-worker programs the nation
has tried would be codified under Mr. Bush's proposal. Immigrants would find
themselves beholden to employers who would hold the power to control their legal
status. The so-called guest workers would really be more akin to indentured
servants, who without union or government protection will have little voice in
determining their own course.

For a guest-worker program to succeed, it must give immigrants power as
independent contractors, who as part of their deal with employers receive the
government's clear assurance that legal status is attainable. If all sides are
to play by the rules, then all sides must have a payoff for doing so. Mr. Bush
has offered a program that is an Employers' Dream, not one that advances
American ideals of fairness and rewarding hard work.

Space exploration and immigration are intrinsic to the nation's affection for
possibility: what we can discover, what we can make of ourselves, what we can do
to understand life and live it better. The United States is a country, a
geographic place, but it is better to think of America as a shared idea shaped
by individual dreams.

Politicians who appeal to imagination for political gain should do so carefully.
Promoting fantasies is cynicism Americans don't need.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com. Randy Schultz's column will resume next week.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              120 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 29, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

BUSH IMMIGRATION PLAN NEXT BEST THING TO SLAVERY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 186 words


President's Bush's new three-year worker visa plan proposes the closest policy
to outright slavery since the Civil War. What happens to the visa holder if he
objects to any company policy or treatment? You can bet he gets a one-way ticket
back to Mexico without his visa. Corporate "Massa" holds all the power.

Mr. Bush refuses to enforce the law by prosecuting his corporate buddies for
hiring illegals, while Corporate Massa won't pay for workers compensation,
health care or any other benefits for these workers. If the slave dies or
becomes ill, kick him into the gutter and hire another. That's what the plan
amounts to.

So the president had to find a way to legalize their felonies, maintain the
slave wages and still make himself appear benevolent. Unfortunately, his plan
also would lower wages for American workers and allow millions more three-year
visas for Indians and others to take midlevel American jobs. This corporate
welfare policy would complete the president's sellout of the American worker to
cheap foreign labor and consign us to Third World status.

MARK L. MORSE

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              121 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 5, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

JUPITER BACKS LIMITING NUMBER LIVING IN HOUSES

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Town council members tentatively approved an ordinance Tuesday night that would
limit the number of residents in single-family homes, despite warnings by
migrant worker advocates that they are inviting federal lawsuits.

The vote was 3-1, with Vice Mayor Jim Kuretski voting no, saying he needed to
study it further. Councilwoman Kathleen Kozinski was absent. A date for final
consideration wasn't set.

Residents of older neighborhoods, such as Eastview Manor and Pine Gardens South,
have complained that many immigrant day laborers are living in crowded
conditions in single-family homes meant for far fewer people.

Florida Atlantic University associate professor Tim Steigenga, who represents
Corn Maya Inc., an advocacy organization for Guatemalan workers and their
families, said nuisance complaints about overcrowding in single-family homes are
understandable.

But he said an educational program for the workers would be a better solution
than intrusive measures such as seeking entry to homes that inspectors feel are
in violation.

"If it is applied equally to all homes, no one will like it," Steigenga said.
"If it is targeted against the immigrant community, it would be a civil rights
lawsuit."

Bill Magrogan, the lone member of the advisory planning and zoning commission to
oppose recommending approval of the ordinance, said the town should negotiate
with immigrant advocates, "and not put an anti-property rights ordinance on the
people of Jupiter."

Not everyone agreed, however. Resident Jan Malloy said the congested housing
situation is bad and getting worse.

She said greedy landlords are the problem because they pack up to 15 people into
small homes and charge exorbitant rents, while neighborhoods are subjected to
excessive noise and trash.

Key provisions of the ordinance would require a bedroom occupied by one person
to have at least 70 square feet, and every bedroom occupied by more than one
person to have at least 50 square feet per person. Other living spaces would
also have minimum sizes, depending on the number of people in the house. For
example, for one or two people, there are no minimum sizes for living and dining
rooms. But for three to five people, the living room must have 120 square feet
and the dining room 80 square feet.

For six or more occupants, the living room minimum must be 150 square feet and
the dining room 100 square feet. Homes occupied by more than the maximum number
of people allowed can be deemed unfit for habitation and closed, unless the
number of occupants is reduced.

The problem isn't limited to Jupiter. In Lake Worth, a special team conducts
block inspections to protect immigrant laborers from unscrupulous landlords.

Inspectors there routinely find eight to 15 people living in one- or two-bedroom
homes.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              122 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 14, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

READY-MADE VICTIMS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 404 words


The arrest this week on grand-theft charges of a Palm Beach County sheriff's
deputy for shaking down Guatemalan and Mexican motorists underscores the
vulnerability of immigrant workers and their need for legal status.

James Tacktikos, according to investigators, robbed at least six immigrants,
threatening some with arrest and deportation if they complained. The arrest
affidavit says Tacktikos took $7,684 by pulling over motorists, then taking
money from their wallets. Authorities say that he confiscated driver licenses
and identification cards, then threatened to report the immigrants if they
complained. Most of the victims wrote off the losses rather than risk getting
into trouble with the government. Authorities say they learned about the
shakedowns when one victim, Miguel Ordonez, told a Lake Worth police officer in
December that Tacktikos had taken $500 from his wallet. Investigators said they
found a stack of licenses and ID cards in Tacktikos' patrol car and located
other victims.

The case resembles that of a West Palm Beach police officer, Daniel Cook, who
pleaded guilty four years ago to stealing money from Guatemalan motorists in the
city's north end. Cook got six months' probation, and the city fired him.
Similar shakedowns involving law-enforcement officers have been reported in
immigrant worker communities throughout the country. Illegal immigrants
especially make ideal targets for criminals. They seldom have bank accounts, so
they tend to carry large sums of cash. Fearful of deportation, they are unlikely
to report crimes to police.

The U.S. economy relies on immigrant labor to fill menial jobs Americans don't
want. President Bush has offered a guest-worker plan to bring the 8 million to
10 million illegal immigrants into a legal framework, but the proposal is too
slanted toward business. The people doing the work must derive some benefit from
reform efforts. A guest-worker program that gives immigrants a clear and
attainable path to legal status would end the nation's hypocritical and
exploitative approach to foreign labor.

Immigrants with legal status cooperate with police, participate in communities
and help to solve crimes rather than surrender to them. Disreputable members of
law enforcement can't threaten them. A population that performs essential work
and contributes to America's prosperity should not be left in the shadows for
predators.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              123 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 13, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

WORKERS, NOT CRIMINALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 395 words


The United States has downsized its plans for reforming Mexican border policy to
a point where doing nothing counts as news.

Last week, President Bush met with Mexican President Vicente Fox in Texas and
announced that the administration is willing to exempt frequent Mexican visitors
from tedious new security checks. Mr. Bush said the government should not force
Mexicans holding border-crossing cards to submit to fingerprinting and
photographing requirements. The measures are in place at many airports and
seaports and are scheduled for expansion to other entry points. Mr. Fox, who has
sought U.S. migration reforms for four years, had something to take home, but
what? White House officials could not say when a final agreement would be ready.

In January, President Bush proposed a guest worker program that would give
temporary visas to illegal immigrants, most of whom are Mexicans with jobs in
the United States. The proposal was so skewed toward U.S. employers, however,
that it would do little more than codify the many existing abuses. Mr. Fox
offered a public thank-you but has faint hope of seeing Congress enact a plan so
flawed. Congress has a better version of guest worker reform - the Agricultural
Job Opportunity and Security Act, which sets reasonable standards for obtaining
legal status. But the White House is unlikely to embrace anything this fair and
practical.

The obviously good idea of marrying immigration reform with homeland security
seems to be going nowhere. The Washington Post reported this month that the FBI
and Immigration and Naturalization Service have fingerprint databases that are
not integrated. Two years ago, Border Patrol agents twice caught Victor Batres,
a Mexican migrant with a long criminal record, trying to cross into the U.S.
Both times, authorities returned and released him. Batres made a successful
third attempt and ended up in Oregon, where he raped two nuns, killing one of
them. Had Border Patrol agents known of his record, they could have detained
him. The Post cited a government study estimating that 136,000 of the 1.6
million illegal immigrants caught and permitted to return each year would be
detained if criminal checks were adequate.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said he is committed to fixing the
database problem quickly. That would be border reform news worth announcing.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              124 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 10, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

TWO MEN DIE IN MINIVAN ROLLOVER

BYLINE: By WILL VASH and CONNIE PILOTO Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1270 words


For the second time in 10 weeks, an overloaded van rolled over on Interstate 95
Tuesday in St. Lucie County and killed migrant workers.

Two men died about 9 p.m. Tuesday, two others were seriously injured and taken
to local hospitals, and the remaining seven men in the 1994 Ford Aerostar were
given notices to appear before an immigration judge to face possible
deportation.

The 11 - all of whom are reportedly illegal immigrants, mostly from Guatemala -
were heading from West Palm Beach to New Jersey, where they planned to find work
picking blueberries.

Aron Santizo Velazquez, 23, had just returned from New Jersey this week after
moving his girlfriend there. He picked up 10 men willing to pay him $50 apiece
for gas, and they headed north on I-95.

But about an hour into the trip, the passengers said the minivan started to
swerve.

"He lost control, and I think he hit the brakes and we started to roll,"
passenger Santiago Cruz said. "I don't know why or how it happened."

The van rolled over several times before coming to rest on its roof. Several men
were thrown from the vehicle, including Velazquez, the driver.

Scared the minivan would explode, the men who were not injured tried to pry a
door open. It didn't work. So, they crawled out a shattered window.

"The ones that weren't injured crawled out first," Cruz said. "Then, we started
helping the others."

Sergio Ramirez, 21, looked down at his hands and noticed his knuckles were
bleeding. So were the right side of his face and his elbows.

"My friends helped me get out," Ramirez said Wednesday. "I was in a daze."

Then, the men tended to the three men who couldn't move.

"We just went in and pulled them out," Cruz said. "We feared the minivan was
going to explode."

One of the men who died was ejected onto the roadway, while the other was
apparently pulled from under the wreckage by fellow passengers who feared the
vehicle would catch fire, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Tim Frith said.

Velazquez, a native of Guatemala who had lived in West Palm Beach, was one of
the dead, relatives and van passengers said. The other was Ermogeles Cruz, also
of Guatemala, the passengers said.

Oscar Ramirez, 22, of 625 35th St. in West Palm Beach was flown to Holmes
Regional Medical Center in Melbourne with critical injuries, but his name did
not appear in hospital records, a hospital spokeswoman said. Nelson Cruz, 23, of
730 41st St. in West Palm Beach was taken by ambulance to St. Lucie Medical
Center, where he was listed Wednesday in serious condition.

As news of the accident spread, many Guatemalans in the neighborhood gathered at
the house on 35th Street in West Palm Beach where at least four of the men in
the crash lived.

Sergio Ramirez showed his friends the bandages on his elbows and the cut on his
right cheek. Inside, Gelber Perez spoke with Cruz's relatives.

Other passengers were identified as Serepio Perez, 26, Ricsrso Rimerez, 24,
Miguel Perez, 44, Saul Gutierez, 16, Santiago Cruz, 41, all of 730 41st St. in
West Palm Beach; and Juan Gonzales, 16, of 505 41st St. in West Palm Beach,
according to a FHP report.

The men, who were apparently not wearing seat belts at the time of the crash,
did not have driver licenses with them and most had no identification at all,
Frith said.

Immigration officials helped troopers identify the workers at the scene Tuesday
night.

The seven men who escaped serious injury received a notice to appear before the
immigration judge while standing near the accident scene, while the other two
survivors laying in hospital beds with serious injuries should receive the same
notice soon, said Nina Pruneda, spokeswoman for the Miami office of the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Frith said investigators are checking into the possibility that Tuesday's deadly
crash was alcohol-related, but declined to provide details.

The circumstance of Tuesday's wreck are different from those of April 1, when a
Ford Econoline van packed with 19 farmworkers heading home from work crashed on
I-95 near Fort Pierce, killing nine Mexican men. It took several days with the
help of family members and friends to identify the bodies.

Frith said it does not appear that the men in Tuesday's accident were being
driven as part of any labor agreement as those men killed April 1 were. Instead
the men in the recent crash were hitching a ride.

"It's the time of year to load up and look for work up north," Frith said.
"There is no information that they had any type of labor requirement or
contract."

Nevertheless, one official at the Florida Department of Business and
Professional Regulation said the department will still investigate to determine
if the driver was licensed as a labor contractor and if that license carried the
designation "DA," driving authorized.

Velazquez was not, said his brother, Antonio Santizo Velazquez, who lives in
West Palm Beach.

In order for a person to legally transport workers he or she must possess a
driver's license, but must also have passed a special doctor's examination. In
addition, the vehicle must carry the appropriate insurance and also must be
inspected regularly.

"If the driver wasn't a labor contractor but was working for such a person, then
that contractor may be in violation of the law if the regulations weren't met,"
a DBPR official said. "The driver may have been killed in the crash but it
doesn't mean that the case will end there."

Violations of such regulations are currently misdemeanors, but due to recent
changes in laws to protect migrant workers, in July some of those violations
will become felonies.

The trip to New Jersey was the first for many of the passengers in the van. But
Velazquez had worked in New Jersey before.

Velazquez had spent four years traveling from state to state to pick crops. He
worked in Ohio and North Carolina - where he had recently purchased the minivan
he was driving.

With the minivan, Velazquez could earn a few extra dollars transporting workers
to harvest sites. He had already taken a group of workers to the New Jersey farm
where he planned to pick blueberries this month.

But Velazquez wanted to make one more trip to South Florida so he could
transport another group. Some of the passengers said Velazquez was supposed to
pick up them up on Saturday, but he didn't make it to West Palm Beach and
rescheduled the trip for Tuesday.

Frith said investigators were still waiting to talk to the owner of the
Aerostar, who lives in North Carolina, to find out more about the trip and
whether the van was properly insured.

Frith said the van, a Ford Aerostar, was a different vehicle than the Ford
Econoline, the vehicle involved in the April rollover accident. The main
difference is how much weight the two vehicles can carry, Frith said.

But, the Aerostar, like the Econoline, doesn't have the best of ratings when it
comes to safety, according to a federal report.

National Highway Traffic Safety Administration tests have indicated that
1988-1997 models of the Ford Aerostar have had some problems with rollovers. Of
the 25 types of vans, trucks and SUVs tested, Aerostar 1988-1997 models were one
of three types to tip in all four sets of tests - two with two occupants and two
with five occupants.

The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety also gave 1992-1997 Aerostar models
an overall safety rating of poor.

Staff writer John Lantigua contributed to this story.

will_vash@pbpost.com

connie_piloto@pbpost.com

Migrant van safety

Learn more about migrant issues in The Palm Beach Post special series,
'Modern-Day Slavery.'

PalmBeachPost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W) & MAP (B&W); 1. Aron Santizo Velazquez: The van's driver
died in the wreck. (mug) GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer 2. MOURNING HIS LOSS:
Antonio Santizo Velazquez, a Guatemalan native who lives in West Palm Beach,
lost his brother Aron Santizo Velazquez, the van's driver, in the crash.  3.
ESCAPED WITH SCRATCHES, BRUISES: Sergio Ramirez, 21, a passenger in the minivan
that rolled over in St. Lucie County Tuesday, said his friends helped him get
out.  4. STAFF GRAPHIC Site of Van crash

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              125 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             July 31, 2003 Thursday thursday FINAL EDITION edition

HOUSING CALLED CRITICAL FOR IMMIGRANT WORKERS workers

BYLINE: By ROSS RAPOPORT Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 5A 5A

LENGTH: 298 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


Working immigrant families in America face more critical housing needs than
their native-born counterparts, according to a report released Wednesday.

One in five low- to moderate-income immigrant families faces critical housing
needs, compared with one in seven for native-born families of the same income,
the report said.  said.

The National Housing Conference said it commissioned the report because of the
"social and economic implications of decent and affordable housing for
immigrants."

Nearly half the states have experienced a 145 percent growth in immigrant
populations, and the conference is seeking to raise awareness of the potential
inadequacy of housing for them.

The term "critical housing needs" encompasses factors such as how much of a
family's income is spent on housing and the condition and adequacy of the
housing.

Immigrant working families face more overcrowding problems than native-born
counterparts, using the standard of more than one person a room, per residence.

About 15 percent of immigrants, or 1 million people, face overcrowding in their
residences, compared with 840,000 American-born families, or 2.4 percent.

"More than 50 percent of the immigrant families with critical housing needs
worked the equivalent of a full-time job," the report said.

Compared with native-born families, immigrant families with critical housing
needs are more likely to live in expensive areas; less likely to be homeowners;
more likely to have incomes below 50 percent of the local median; more likely to
depend on more than one wage earner; and more likely to be households with
children, the report said.

Mexico and the rest of Latin America contributed the highest number of families
with critical housing needs in the study.

rrapoport@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              126 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             November 21, 2003 Friday friday FINAL EDITION edition

3 FLORIDA MIGRANT ADVOCATES HONORED honored

BYLINE: By ADAM JONES Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 11A 11A

LENGTH: 341 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


Three Florida migrant worker advocates were recognized Thursday for their role
in representing the struggles of fruit pickers in South Florida.

Julia Gabriel, Lucas Benitez and Romeo Ramirez, all with the Coalition of
Immokalee Workers, were selected as winners of the Robert F. Kennedy Human
Rights Award by a group named after the late senator.

It is given annually to those "who are engaged in strategic and nonviolent
efforts to overcome serious human rights violations," and it is the first time
in the award's 20-year history that a U.S. human rights advocacy group has been
recognized.  recognized.

The Coalition of Immokalee Workers is a farmworker advocacy organization based
in Immokalee with about 2,000 members. The group's goal is to point out labor
violations, raise awareness of working conditions and wages, help migrant
workers and fight for reform.

It has been influential in five involuntary servitude cases in South Florida.
Coalition members investigate abusive employers and help find witnesses willing
to testify against their employer.

In 1999, Gabriel helped the Department of Justice counsel victims in a case that
led to prosecution of a family of illegal immigrants - headed by Rogerio Cadena
- who forced more than 20 immigrant women to work as unpaid prostitutes in Fort
Pierce, West Palm Beach, Lake Worth and other cities. Cadena was sentenced to a
15-year prison term and paid $1 million in restitution.

Ramirez, 23, came to the United States from Guatemala at 15. He became a member
of the coalition at age 16, and went undercover in 2000 to expose slave labor at
a farm in Lake Placid. His work helped convict the owners of the farm for slave
trafficking, extortion and weapons charges in November 2002.

Mexican immigrant Benitez attended meetings when he was picking oranges and
tomatoes that led to the formation of the coalition in 1996. He helped workers
who escaped from a farm outside Immokalee. The farm was convicted in January
2002 for conspiracy to enslave workers.

- ajones@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              127 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             March 25, 2004 Thursday thursday FINAL EDITION edition

BUSH FOREIGN-WORKER PLAN GETS COLD SHOULDER shoulder

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 10A 10A

LENGTH: 356 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


House Republicans and Democrats gave a chilly reception Wednesday to President
Bush's proposal to grant temporary visas to an unlimited number of foreign
workers.

Chairman John Hostettler, R-Ind., of the House Judiciary's immigration
subcommittee, told the panel that nearly 12 million American workers in
construction, the service industry and other low-wage fields stand to "lose
their jobs to recruits from abroad" under such a plan.

That "sounds like ominous things happening," remarked Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz.,
one of the few members who defended the temporary worker plan, which the
president laid out in January.  january.

Flake said that stopping the illegal flow of immigrants was impossible and that
building contractors and restaurant owners and other industries need the labor
they provide.

Most Republicans at the hearing took the opposing side, however. The Bush plan
"opens up every job in America" to competition from low-wage foreigners, said
Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, who added that the result would be to depress wages
and displace American workers.

Democratic lawmakers also criticized the Bush proposal, largely for its failure
to include a pathway to permanent residency and citizenship for millions of
illegal residents now here. Undocumented immigrants who have been living and
working here for years "should have a chance to earn legal status," said Rep.
Linda Sanchez of California.

Experts at the House subcommittee hearing predicted dire results for American
workers, especially those without high school diplomas, if the doors were opened
to a massive influx of legal foreign workers.

Especially hurt would be blacks, said Frank Morris, the former dean of graduate
studies at Morgan State University in Baltimore. Speaking for a private group
that seeks to reduce immigration, he said evidence already shows that "employers
prefer immigrants to African-American workers."

The president's plan has stalled on Capitol Hill after a single hearing on the
Senate side. A Senate Republican leadership aide said Wednesday that no major
immigration bill is likely to pass this year.

juliam@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              128 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

               May 4, 2004 Tuesday tuesday FINAL EDITION edition

IMMIGRATION FOUND TO CUT AMERICAN WORKERS' PAY pay

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 3A 3A

LENGTH: 460 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


Two decades' growth in the supply of immigrant workers cost native-born American
men an average $1,700 in annual wages by the year 2000, a top economist has
concluded.

Hispanic and black Americans were hurt most by the influx of foreign-born
workers, says a new report by Harvard University's George J. Borjas, considered
a leading authority on the impact of immigration.

The findings, to be released today, could influence immigration proposals now
being urged by lawmakers and the White House.  house.

Congressional Democrats plan today to launch comprehensive legislation whose
provisions would legalize immigrant workers already here, guarantee labor rights
and allow an increased flow of legal, temporary foreign workers.

Earlier this year, President Bush announced his own overhaul for immigration
that would offer temporary legal status to workers now here and open the door
for greater numbers of "willing workers" from abroad to take temporary jobs in
America.

In his report, Borjas suggests that one effect of such proposals would be to
depress Americans' wage growth for all levels of education and job skills.

His study of two decades of wages concluded that U.S.-born high school dropouts
suffered the most - a 7.4 percent drop in annual wages by the year 2000. For
high school graduates and workers with some college, the loss was a little more
than 2 percent. And for college graduates, wages were held back an average 3.6
percent.

Borjas found that U.S.-born Hispanic workers saw their wages reduced by an
average 5 percent, and U.S.-born blacks experienced a 4.5 percent drop. These
two groups faced the most direct competition from foreign-born workers, he said.

"The reduction in earnings occurs regardless of whether the immigrants are legal
or illegal, permanent or temporary," said Borjas, himself an immigrant from
Cuba. "It is the presence of additional workers that reduces wages, not their
legal status."

The report, an updated version of an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Economics last year, is being published by the Center for Immigration Studies, a
nonpartisan research group that favors lower levels of immigration.

The Borjas study on the impact is unusually bleak, said Jared Bernstein, senior
economist with the Economic Policy Institute, a research group financed by labor
unions. "I think the magnitude of the effect is quite large relative to other
research," he said, arguing that the impact on wages is probably somewhat less
dramatic.

Economist Robert Lerman, a senior fellow at the generally pro-immigration Urban
Institute, said that Borjas had made a "fine study" of the wage effects through
2000, but added that his conclusions might not hold for the next two decades.

jmalone@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              129 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 8, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

DISPERSING THE HUMAN CARGO

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3147 words

DATELINE: MESA, ARIZ.


For many migrant workers, the road to the farm fields of Florida runs through a
fleabag motel room such as this one outside Phoenix.

Scarred by water stains, peeling paint and a splintered door, the room is
designed for two people at most. But it is now crowded by nine undocumented
Latins, just arrived after an exhausting four-day march across the Arizona
desert. Such low-rent hideouts serve as safe houses and secret depots for a very
lucrative underground business. It is where poor men and women with hopes of
brighter futures meet wheeling-and-dealing drivers who convey them clandestinely
anywhere in the country - in exchange for big money. In the trade, such men who
provide rides are called "raiteros."

The nine travelers will spend only a day or two in the motel before being
shipped out. They keep the door locked and peek through the blinds before
allowing anyone in, including a reporter and a photographer for The Palm Beach
Post. They pass the time staring at television, in particular frightening
reports about other would-be migrants who died crossing the desert.

Meanwhile, Cesar, the smuggler who brought them across the border, helps plot
their cross-country journeys with three other men - two raiteros and a
dispatcher. Facing prison terms if they are caught, the four men are on edge.
They negotiate, squabble and yell into cellphones, cutting the deals that
distinguish this illegal industry. All business is conducted in Spanish.

"What is the number of your sister-in-law in Florida?" Cesar shouts above the
sound of the television. He is screaming to a migrant named Onofre, 24, who has
family in Hialeah.

Everybody takes a cut in smuggling work

Before a migrant is released from the motel room, his relatives must first wire
the $800 that Cesar charges for the border crossing. Not all of that is profit:
Cesar has already doled out $150 per head to the driver of a pickup truck who
plucked them from the broiling desert near Tucson and drove them about 100 miles
to Mesa.

Given the phone number, Cesar punches it in, reaches the woman, puts the young
man on, who confirms he has arrived in Phoenix and is well. Cesar allows no time
for chitchat. He grabs back the phone and gives the woman instructions for
wiring the money to a nearby Western Union office.

"It has to be here before I can send him to you," Cesar says, not menacingly but
firmly. He is assured the $800 will be wired that day, and he hangs up. The same
procedure is followed family after family.

The raitero who will transport some of the group is nicknamed El Flaco (Skinny),
a clever cover name because he is not thin. As Cesar proceeds, El Flaco figures
out who he will squeeze into his Ford Escape, a small SUV, which departs the
next day for the East Coast. Those who are left behind will leave a day later in
another vehicle, to be driven by El Flaco's brother.

A Guatemalan, El Flaco, 26, is loud, fast-talking and high-strung. He says he
first snuck into the U.S. when he was 14, crossing the border illegally with
friends. Caught by the Border Patrol, he was shipped back across the line to
Mexico and staved off hunger there by selling newspapers on the street until he
finally arranged to cross again.

The past 12 years he has lived in the U.S. and once worked in Palm Beach County,
harvesting tomatoes. In the mid-1990s, he took advantage of an immigration
amnesty and is now a legal resident. He has smuggled migrants for several years,
lives in Atlanta and is trying to choose his passengers so he can drop them all
off and reach home "without having to drive all over the damned country."

But he must coordinate that with his two smuggling colleagues. He slips out of
the room, crosses the motel courtyard and enters another equally seedy room,
where the dispatcher is at work. His nickname is El Moro (the Moor).

An extremely slim, dark, 30ish Mexican with curly black hair, El Moro is dressed
in a ratty T-shirt and slacks, no shoes. He stalks the room manically, barking
into a cellphone. He is speaking to another coyote who is traveling by foot in
the Arizona desert with 17 migrants and is expected in Phoenix the next day.

"What (pickup) point are you going to, and when will you be there?" The
reception is poor, and he has to yell.

The other man in the room is El Flaco's older brother, who uses the name Ovidio.
Even jumpier and louder than El Flaco, Ovidio insists on knowing when the second
coyote will arrive so he can finalize how many "chickens" (migrants) he will be
transporting. But the connection is lost and can't be reestablished. El Moro
curses the coyote.

The two brothers storm out. Crossing the courtyard, they are stopped momentarily
by a dark, nattily dressed man, the owner of the motel, who is originally from
India. They converse with him briefly and reenter the first room.

"The Indian wants his money," El Flaco yells to Cesar. If large numbers of
migrants are held in a room, the owner demands a payoff, Cesar explains later,
revealing yet another level in the smuggling food chain. Cesar tells the
brothers he can handle it for $50 and that they shouldn't worry.

Reckoning cost of delivery

The two brothers then set prices and settle accounts with Cesar.

"We charge $1,000 from Phoenix to Atlanta or to Florida," explains El Flaco. "To
North Carolina, it is $1,200. To New York or Boston, it is $1,500." They will be
paid by the family members to whom they deliver the migrants.

"But we don't keep all that money because we pay Cesar $400 for each of them,"
El Flaco explains. That is Cesar's cut for bringing the business to them and not
other drivers.

All three men agree they must get the group out of Phoenix quickly. Not only do
they risk raids by the authorities, but lately local Mexican-American gangs have
invaded motels and kidnapped waiting migrants.

"Last week, a gang of cholos (Mexican-Americans) with guns kicked in the door of
Room 15 right in this motel," explains Cesar. "They kidnapped a whole bunch.
They hold them for ransom and collect from the families."

That night, the Guatemalan brothers divvy up the passengers. El Flaco will take
two migrants heading to Alabama, one to Florida and two more men stashed in
another safe house who want to go to Atlanta. That adds up to eight people,
including the two Florida journalists and the driver, all crammed into the
rented compact SUV designed to hold five. His brother, who drives a larger van,
will transport the remaining members of the present group but will also wait for
some of the 17 still crossing the desert.

"Some guys used to take 15 or 20 people in a van," says El Flaco. "They would
take out the seats and lay the chickens in the back all the way across country.
Some people still do that, but we don't. The vans ride low in the back, and it
makes it easy for the police to spot you.

"If a cop stops you and sees those people lying there, he knows you're
smuggling," he says. "Lots of raiteros have gotten arrested that way. If I get
stopped, I just say I was doing someone a favor. I didn't know they had no
papers."

He also explains why he uses rental vehicles. "It costs me $500 per week, but
the vans are new, well maintained and good for long trips. Also, I change cars,
and that is good if someone starts watching for one vehicle."

Bypassing agents on Interstate 10

The business agreements and passenger allotments go smoothly until almost the
last moment. The next morning, shortly before the first vehicle rolls out, an
argument breaks out between Cesar and the brothers. Two of the passengers have
no family members to pay their cross-country fares. The drivers will have to
trust that the migrants find work and make payments on their debt. Trust is not
their stock in trade.

"You take these people all the way across the country, and then they are
supposed to pay you every month," complains El Flaco. "But you drop them off,
and the next week they take off, they disappear."

Cesar argues that the migrants are from his hometown, and one is his cousin.

"They won't let you down because they won't want to let me down," he assures the
Guatemalans. But he finally agrees not to take the $400 up front for the two
passengers, and the deal is sealed.

The eight squeeze into the van, including two in the luggage space at the rear.
Baggage is tied on top under a tarp.

The two new additions are Samuel, 42, and his nephew, Pedro, 25, Mexicans who
recently had been laid off in California - Samuel from a computer factory and
Pedro, a cook, from a Mexican restaurant.

"When the war started in Iraq, a lot of people lost jobs out there," explains
Samuel. They are heading to Atlanta, where they have family and where they hope
to find work.

At 1:10 p.m. on Saturday, July 26, El Flaco and his passengers set off. In the
parlance of the smuggling business, they are "subiendo" (going up). All trips
out of Phoenix are "going up." On the console next to the driver's seat sit an
empty can of Red Bull, a caffeine drink, and a plastic bottle of amphetamines.
They help explain El Flaco's high-strung manner.

"We'll be in Atlanta in about 32 to 35 hours," says El Flaco. He says he stops
to sleep only for an hour or two at a time.

Atlanta is east, but they don't head in that direction right away. Instead, they
go north to Flagstaff and catch Route 40. El Flaco says smugglers used to take
Interstate 10 directly east from Phoenix, but no longer.

"There are lots of Border Patrol vehicles on Route 10 and a checkpoint at El
Paso," he says. "People have gotten busted there. This route is longer but
safer."

Group of 17 busted en route to Phoenix

They will pass through eight states to reach Florida - Arizona, New Mexico,
Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia. The speed limit,
in general, is 75, and El Flaco does 80 max.

He tells a cautionary tale about another raitero who recently headed north
toward Colorado but didn't drive safely.

"He rolled the van, and two people were killed and some were injured," says El
Flaco. "He was all right, but he had to run for it - he got away."

El Flaco says he sometimes recognizes other smuggling vehicles on the highway or
at rest stops. But the first vehicle they take special notice of on this trip is
an Arizona Highway Patrol cruiser, sitting on a median near Flagstaff. They all
watch the car circumspectly as they go by, and all through the trip the sight of
a police car will make the passengers tense. They have come too far to be turned
back.

Several hours into the journey, after sunset, El Flaco's cellphone sounds. His
brother reports bad news: The group of 17 heading toward Phoenix has been
busted.

"They picked up all those people in one vehicle so that it was riding really
low, and the (Border) Patrol stopped them on Route 10," El Flaco recounts later.

The incident enrages El Flaco, and he yells into the phone: "Why didn't they
send two vehicles or even three? That was stupid!"

His brother tells him he will head for the East Coast with the small group
already at the motel, but that also angers El Flaco.

"No! That is too few people," he yells. "Wait two days, and another group will
come. Don't be an ox! Just wait!"

They argue, and El Flaco finally hangs up, still fuming.

"Those people spend four days crossing the desert, and then somebody screws up,
and they have to go all the way back and start all over," he grumbles. "That's
f..... terrible."

'This isn't easy; you never stop'

The SUV exits Arizona, crosses New Mexico and enters Texas late at night. They
stop for gas and quick bathroom breaks. At the first stop, a migrant accustomed
to public bathrooms in Mexico, which often are not free, asks El Flaco how much
it will cost. He is surprised to hear there is no charge.

El Flaco encourages everyone to get out and stretch.

"These people walk for days across the desert, and they get into the car and
they get cramps."

El Flaco drives until about 1 a.m., then pulls into a rest stop among long-haul
trailers and sleeps for an hour. He wakes, drives two hours and stops for one
more hour.

"I have driven all the way across without sleeping at all," he insists. "I've
had two hours sleep, and with that I'll make Atlanta."

The sun comes up over green hills in Texas. El Flaco pulls off the highway to a
McDonald's, but he doesn't let the migrants get out of the car. They are in
smalltown America.

"We don't want anybody getting suspicious," he says. He brings back Egg
McMuffins for all and absorbs the expense because his passengers have little
money. He limps slightly as he returns to the car: His own leg is cramping up
from so much driving.

They roll again, and El Flaco turns the radio dial, trying to find a
Spanish-speaking station. He settles for country music in English, songs about
hard times that don't compare with the tough times the migrants in the car have
seen.

They enter Arkansas at 11 a.m., the 22-hour mark, and approach Little Rock.

"There used to be sign here that said 'Welcome to the State of President Bill
Clinton,' " recalls El Flaco,"but now he's gone and the sign is gone."

He speaks of other trips in recent weeks - one to Boston, another to St. Louis
and Chattanooga. He's ready to spend a while at home in Atlanta.

"This isn't easy; you never stop."

And lately it has gotten harder. Since Sept. 11, 2001, the vigilance by federal
and state authorities has increased. At one point, officials established
checkpoints at Albuquerque and Amarillo, but now they have taken them down.

"For a while, (drivers) were going all the way north to Nebraska in order to
cross the country," he recalls. "It was taking 60 hours nonstop. We used to do
these trips for $800. That's why the prices have gone up."

Dropping off the immigrants

The SUV leaves Arkansas and enters Tennessee, crossing over the Mississippi
River, which some of the passengers have never heard of. They cut across a small
corner of Mississippi and then enter Alabama.

"The police here in Alabama and in Georgia are the worst," El Flaco warns. "They
will stop you if they don't like your looks."

As they enter Alabama, El Flaco hands his cellphone to Nely, the only woman. She
makes contact with her two brothers who live in small northern Alabama town and
are waiting for her. She hands the phone back to El Flaco, who arranges a late
night meeting in the town of Anniston.

At 11 p.m., they pull into the otherwise empty parking lot of a local
supermarket. Nely climbs out and embraces her brother, Waldemar, whom she hasn't
seen in several years since he crossed the desert. No money changes hands
because Cesar has made arrangements that Nely and her boyfriend, Jose, will pay
off El Flaco in payments. El Flaco reminds them of the agreement and gives them
his phone number for when they have earned their first installment.

Then he climbs back into the Escape and drives through the night into Georgia.
At 3 a.m., about 37 hours after leaving Mesa, El Flaco pulls into a suburb north
of Atlanta, to an attractive house in a middle-class neighborhood. Several
Mexican men, who have been waiting for the latest shipment of human cargo,
emerge from the house to greet the new arrivals. Despite the hour, El Flaco
calls the family of Samuel and Pedro to arrange for their payment and pickup.
The relatives won't arrive until later that day, which means the men will have
to sleep on the floor of the safe house.

"No sweat, it's carpeted," El Flaco tells them. El Flaco will get only a couple
of hours sleep because he wants to see a girlfriend before heading to Florida.

It is 9 a.m. Sunday when he sets off with his last "chicken," Onofre, and the
two journalists. On the streets, some people are already out. Almost everyone in
sight is Latin.

"Atlanta is crawling with Latinos," says El Flaco. "This is a very good place
for us because there is lot of work - landscaping, construction, warehouses."

Bad memories of Palm Beach County

As the SUV heads south toward Florida, El Flaco remembers his days in Palm Beach
County in 1995. He doesn't have fond memories.

"We Guatemalans were always getting mugged," he says. "Bad guys knew that we
couldn't put our money in the bank and carried it with us - sometimes in our
boots. They would jump you and rip off your shoes. It happened to me one night
as I was going into this lousy hotel I stayed in, the Hotel Patio. Three guys
came out of the bushes. I lost $150, and they choked me, left me unconscious."

He says he never worked in Florida again. "But I have taken many people to
Florida - Immokalee, Naples, Bradenton, Quincy, all over."

As he crosses the Florida line, El Flaco uses his phone to make contact with
Onofre's family in Hialeah.

"Listen, I'm going to have to charge you $1,200 and not $1,000," he says. "He's
the only one I have left, and I can't drive all the way to (South Florida) for
nothing."

Onofre's sister-in-law says she only has $1,000 but promises to send him $200
the next week.

"Many people promise to send me money, and I never hear from them again," he
complains. She pleads with him, and he finally concedes, because she agrees to
meet him in Tampa. He has cousins near there who will put him up for the night.

El Flaco hangs up. After paying the car rental, gas and food, he will pocket
about $4,500 for the week's work. He insists it still isn't easy money, but he
isn't very convincing.

He waves goodbye and drives out of sight, barking into his cellphone.

What the smugglers earned

Here is what the two principal smugglers earned to get their human cargo from
the Mexican border to their new U.S. homes. The smugglers typically demand
payment in full, but allowed a few of their charges to pay later.

The 'coyote'

ROLE

- To get nine immigrants from Mexico to Phoenix - what turned out to be a
four-day desert hike.

PROFIT

- About $10,000

INCOME

- $800 per person - nine migrants and one reporter; the money for the migrants
was wired by relatives to the coyote.

- $400 per migrant from the 'raitero' for providing people who need
cross-country transportation.

EXPENSES

- $150 per head to the truck driver who picks the migrants up in the Arizona
desert and takes them to a motel 'safe house' in Phoenix.

- $100 to the motel owner, including room and payoff.

- $20 a day per migrant for food.

The 'raitero'

ROLE

- To get five migrants from Phoenix to Atlanta and Tampa, a 1 1/2-day drive.

PROFIT

- About $4,500

- $1,000 to $1,200 per migrant, paid by migrants' relatives upon arrival at
their homes, and $1,000 each for a reporter and a photographer.

EXPENSES

- $400 per migrant to the coyote who provided them.

- $500 for one week's car rental

- Gas money and other expenses, including buying a McDonald's meal for all his
charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 2 OF 3Info box at end of
text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5 C) & GRAPHIC (C); Staff photos by LANNIS WATERS 1. Weary and
wary: Fearing arrest after sneaking into the U.S. from Mexico, an undocumented
migrant peeks out a window of a run-down motel room near Phoenix. It serves as a
safe house for migrants still tired and dusty from crossing the desert.  2.
Zoning out in the U.S.A.: After arriving in their safe house near Phoenix,
migrants rest and watch television. They have just trudged four days from Mexico
through the desert heat of late July. The news includes reports about other
would-be migrants who had less luck and died crossing the desert. While the
migrants recuperate, a coyote and other smugglers plan the routes that the
laborers will take cross-country. Most will proceed to states on the East Coast,
including Florida. Some will end up having to work off smuggling fees. 3. Dinner
en route: Pedro (from left), Samuel and Onofre eat a Burger King meal while
crammed into the back seat of a rented Ford Escape. The vehicle, made for five
people, carries eight. Jose and his girlfriend, Nely, are traveling in the
luggage area at the rear.  4. Sweet new home Alabama: After traveling from
Phoenix with other migrants in a rented compact SUV, Jose (above) says goodbye
to travel companions as his girlfriend, Nely, waits in a car with her relatives,
who came to pick them up. The two groups met in an empty supermarket parking lot
late at night in Anniston, Ala.  5. Mission accomplished: Pedro, 25, and his
uncle Samuel, 42, (center and right) two undocumented Mexicans who recently had
been laid off in California, are dropped off at a safe house in a middle-class
Atlanta suburb, where they will eventually be picked up by relatives.  6. STAFF
GRAPHIC Where migrants end up California has more migrant and seasonal workers
than any other state. Florida is third.  Sources: Migrant and Season Farmworkers
Enumeration Study.  Migrant Health Program, Bureau of Primary Health Care,
Health and Human Resources Administration.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              130 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             September 9, 2000, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HAITIAN GROUP PROTESTS U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Haitian refugees protested Friday outside the federal building to press demands
for fairer treatment under United States immigration policy.

Up to 50,000 Haitians living in Florida are undocumented and most of them can't
get work permits because of unfair laws, said protest organizers.

"The Cubans come here and, boom, they get their papers," said Bob Louis-Jeune, a
radio commentator for Creole-language programs. "We want the same policy."

The protesters carried signs asking for an extension of the Haitian Fairness
Act, which allows some Haitians to qualify for residency.

They also demanded immigration amnesty for all Haitians now in the United
States.

Deporting Haitians is a hardship, they said, because many have U.S.-born
children, homes and jobs.

The Fairness Act allowed Haitians living in the United States before 1996 the
right to apply for residency.

The deadline for applying was March 31.

Because many entered the county with false visas they are deemed ineligible.

Haitian advocates said many used false documents to flee violence in their
Caribbean country.

Rossener Jean Pierre, another protest organizer, said he hoped the rally and
others planned this month will get the attention of Congress.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              131 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 16, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

RESTORE VITAL BENEFITS TO LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 380 words


Legal immigrants and their advocates have come to regard the date Aug. 22, 1996,
as their own unhappy holiday. That was the day Congress passed the Welfare
Reform Act and immediately changed the lives of millions.

A lot of the changes have been short-lived. A few months after enacting the
reforms, Republican lawmakers were busy looking for ways to soften or repeal
them. They were motivated by the outcry from governors who called it
unconstitutional to deny benefits to legal immigrants and unconscionable that
the states would be left to care for so many needy. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles
sued the federal government in 1997, claiming the lost benefits would cost the
state $ 300 million a year.

Congress relented and agreed to restore about $ 10 billion in benefits over five
years to those legal immigrants who were here on that critical date, Aug. 22,
1996. But no provision was made to include immigrants who arrived legally
afterward, and the ranks of the uninsured have grown steadily, though more
employers are offering their workers health insurance.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., hopes to change that by the time Congress finishes the
budget and adjourns this month. Sen. Graham is pushing to restore Medicaid and
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) coverage to legal immigrant children
and pregnant women who have arrived during the past four years.

"These are the human victims of the law of unintended consequences," he says.
"Welfare reform was supposed to promote self-sufficiency, not punish working
families who are trying to care for their children."

Sen. Graham has bipartisan supporters, among them Sens. Connie Mack, R-Fla., and
John McCain, R-Ariz., and U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach. When
President Clinton signed the Welfare Reform Act, he said he believed the
benefits for legal immigrants should not have been eliminated. Mr. Clinton also
predicted, correctly, that many of the poor who were removed from the welfare
rolls would be restored by the next year. What the president didn't foresee was
that the year 2000 would come and so many legal immigrants and their families
would still be without basic health care. Sen. Graham has taken the lead in
correcting that, and the Congress has an obligation to follow.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              132 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 27, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER WAR OF THE 2000 CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 678 words


Congress has taken its session into overtime, and if it were up to many
lawmakers, they would postpone some of the remaining business until Nov. 8.

Dealing with the politically charged immigration issues would be much safer
after the elections. As it is, Republicans and Democrats run the risk of
alienating the Hispanic voters whose support could tip the balance of a
presidential race that's much too close to call.

The stakes are high for the candidates for the highest office - and also for
hundreds of thousands of immigrant families who work, pay taxes and have made
significant contributions to the nation's economic prosperity, yet have no
documented legal status to be here.

U.S. immigration policy has long been a patchwork of preference, hypocrisy and
political expedience. So it's not surprising that the debate in Congress casts
the same reflections. The Clinton administration and Democratic lawmakers have
supported a broad amnesty plan that would allow about 800,000 immigrants living
here since before 1986 to legalize their status. The proposal is a call for
even-handed treatment. It would give immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Haiti and Liberia the same rights as immigrants who fled the
oppressive regimes in Nicaragua and Cuba.

Republicans argue that the amnesty would reward illegal entry and encourage more
to try it. The Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based
group that wants greater border control, believes the amnesty would be
tantamount to capitulation. FAIR President Dan Stein said, "It is a declaration
that the U.S. lacks the resolve and ability to stem the tide of illegal
immigration."

But the greatest fear is election-year politics. Republicans accuse the
Democrats of pushing the issue to win over Hispanic voters. Republicans who
accept the amnesty proposal face alienation within their ranks; those who reject
it face alienation Nov. 7 when record numbers of naturalized citizens cast
votes.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush, fluent in Spanish and with considerable
Mexican-American support from his home state, has much to lose if the GOP is
seen as the party that oppresses immigrants. The most sensitive indicator of
fear in the political geology is U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Altamonte Springs,
the Republican Senate candidate in Florida. His campaign has been homage to the
science-fiction classic Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The closer the election
gets, the less Mr. McCollum resembles the congressman with a 20-year record of
arch-conservatism.

Rep. McCollum's latest epiphany came last week, when he signed a letter with
several Republican colleagues - among them Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen of Miami - supporting the Democrats' immigration amnesty reforms.
Besides language that was uncommonly warm for conservative Republicans (the
immigrants were described as "productive, law-abiding, freedom-loving people"
who are "integral and valuable members of our society") the letter also
acknowledges the strife these immigrants left behind: They "fled their home
countries at a time when these countries were dangerous places."

Rep. McCollum signed that, and it is a significant departure from his
long-standing, often-articulated view: "There is simply no evidence of
persecution of people," he said a decade ago, after voting against granting
legal status to Salvadorans and Nicaraguans.

Recall how last spring candidate McCollum won endorsements from Cuban-Americans
by vigorously criticizing the government's handling of Elian Gonzalez.
Enlightenment radiates through the election year. Lawmakers see civil war
victims where they once saw economic opportunists. People once scorned as
unwanted illegal aliens are called freedom-loving Americans-to-be, whose loss
would "hurt our economy and impoverish our culture."

Distortion is the constant of U.S. immigration policy, and fairness itself
remains the real refugee.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              133 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 29, 2000 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION MEDICAL AGENCY VETERAN IMMIGRATION GROUP INTERNET ADDRESS

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 275 words


U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service: Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Office at 301 Broadway in Riviera Beach is open 7 a.m. to 3
p.m. weekdays and is staffed with 11 adjudication officers, two information
officers, five clerks and a supervisor. It serves Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie,
Indian River, Okeechobee, Hendry, Glades and Highland counties. Phone (800)
375-5283 for recorded messages on immigration regulations, or (800) 870-3676 to
order forms. Messages are in English and Spanish. The information is also on the
Web site www.ins.usdoj.gov.

VETERANS

Veterans Affairs: The 265-bed Veteran Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach
serves over a quarter of a million veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie,
Indian River, Glades, Okeechobee and Hendry counties. Veterans who need
information on services can call 882-8262. The Vet Center, 585-0441, at 2311
10th Ave. N., Suite 13, in Lake Worth, provides counseling for job placement,
benefits, post-traumatic stress disorders and readjustment.

IMMIGRATION

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service: Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Office at 301 Broadway in Riviera Beach is open 7 a.m. to 3
p.m. weekdays and is staffed with 11 adjudication officers, two information
officers, five clerks and a supervisor. It serves Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie,
Indian River, Okeechobee, Hendry, Glades and Highland counties. Phone (800)
375-5283 for recorded messages on immigration regulations, or (800) 870-3676 to
order forms. Messages are in English and Spanish. The information is also on the
website (www.ins.usdoj.gov).

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
DISCOVER Palm Beach County Health care

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              134 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 11, 2000 Monday FINAL EDITION

A DIFFERENT FIASCO ISSUE IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 410 words


It would make a compelling theme for a movie about a totalitarian county, but
the sad fact is it's happening in a town near you: A college teacher, never
charged with a crime, has been incarcerated for more than 3 1/2 years based on
alleged government evidence that neither he nor his attorneys have been allowed
to see.

Yet this due-process nightmare took still another agonizing turn last week. On
Wednesday, U.S. Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ruled, finally, that the
government had failed to provide Mazen Al-Najjar or his attorneys an opportunity
to rebut the evidence. He ordered the former University of South Florida teacher
released from a Bradenton detention center on $8,000 bond. A freedom celebration
planned for Thursday, however, turned it into a prayer vigil when the Board of
Immigration Appeal in Washington, D.C. granted the government a 24-hour delay,
then an indefinite stay that could last months.

Dr. Al-Najjar, an immigrant from Gaza, has lived in the United States almost 20
years. He and his wife, a pharmacist, have three young daughters who are U.S.
citizens. In May 1997, after appealing a deportation order for overstaying a
student visa, he was jailed based on mere assertions of his being a terrorist
threat to national security.

The 43-year-old teacher is one of about two dozen immigrants, almost all Muslims
or Arabs, whom the government has detained on secret evidence with no criminal
charges filed against them. Challenging their unconstitutional detention are
civil rights groups and as many as 100 members of Congress. Legislation banning
most uses of secret evidence in such cases passed the House Judiciary Committee
this year but did not get to the floor for a vote. Supporters will reintroduce
it.

Today, however, U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard in Miami may rule on an
emergency motion filed Friday for Dr. Al-Najjar's release. It was Judge Lenard
who, in considering the constitutional question last May, ruled that Dr.
Al-Najjar was entitled to defend himself against secret evidence. She ordered a
bail rehearing before the same judge who had denied bail in 1997 - Judge McHugh.

The only judge who has reviewed all the evidence in the case, he now says Dr.
Al-Najjar doesn't pose any threat to the community or national security. That's
why government prosecutors went shopping to the immigration appeals board.
Instead, this should be the last reel on a very embarrassing episode.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              135 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 15, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

NAJJAR: MORE OUTRAGE PRISON CHARGE GOVERNMENT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 197 words


Maybe Attorney General Janet Reno just wanted to wait until the reporters and TV
cameras were gone to release Mazen Najjar, the former University of South
Florida professor who has been jailed without charges for more than 3 1/2 years.

Worse than that potential embarrassment is that this was the third time in a
week that Dr. Najjar's release was blocked. Twice, immigration officials who
claim the Gaza immigrant raised money for terrorist groups kept him in jail.
Tuesday, the decision was Ms. Reno's.

Her department has moved at turtle speed to investigate alleged election
irregularities in Florida. But Ms. Reno rushed in to order another stay of Dr.
Najjar's release, this time until 5 p.m. today, so she could review his case.
Two federal judges have ruled that he was detained without due process, so the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has gone to its boss to overrule the
courts.

On Wednesday, those officials presented Ms. Reno with more information - again
showing none of it to Dr. Najjar's attorney or giving him a chance to see the
secret evidence against him - as the feds continue to kick him around like a
ball labeled: The Constitution.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              136 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 22, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS, OTHER REFUGEES FACE DEPORTATION UNDER NEW LAW

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 490 words


New immigration rules signed into law Thursday offer no lifelines for tens of
thousands of refugees in South Florida facing deportation.

Stripped from the bill were provisions that would have allowed Haitians and some
Central Americans to apply for legal residency.

"It doesn't cover people like me," said Rigaud Moise, a Haitian refugee whose
battle to stay in the United States is supported by residents and co-workers at
Gleneagles County Club in suburban Delray Beach. Because Moise came in 1991 with
a fake passport - he says he was fleeing Haiti to save his life - he can't apply
for a green card.

"He's being penalized" said Michael D. Ray, Moise's attorney. "A lot of people
came here to save their lives with somebody else's documents."

Moise and thousands of other Haitians were pinning their hopes on an early
provision in the bill that would have pardoned the violation for humanitarian
reasons.

Instead, Congress passed a Republican alternative to the Democratic-sponsored
bill that makes only minor changes to immigration law.

Leaving Haitians and others without a lifeline may create social problems, said
Daniella Henry, coordinator of the Haitian American Community Council in Delray
Beach.

"If parents are deported and their U.S.-born children remain here, what will we
do with them? Put them in foster homes?," Henry said.

Many refugees, such as Moise, have children who were born here and thus cannot
be deported because they are U.S. citizens.

While the bill was being debated this fall, many Haitians took to the streets in
West Palm Beach and Miami to demand immigration amnesty. But amnesty never got
serious consideration on Capitol Hill.

Immigration advocates hoped the bill would give refugees parity with Cuban and
Nicaraguan asylum seekers, but that also was removed from the bill. Cuban and
Nicaraguan refugees fled regimes the U.S. opposed. Haitians, Salvadorans and
Guatemalans have argued they should get the same consideration because they
endured similar civil strife.

"We are profoundly disappointed that the Republican leadership didn't take the
opportunity to address the needs of many of the immigrant communities," said
Judy Golub, a spokeswoman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The major benefit of the bill signed Thursday will go to longtime undocumented
residents who came from Mexico. About 700,000 mostly Mexican applicants who were
denied amnesty in 1986 can now reapply. Most were turned away in 1986 because
their applications were incomplete or because they had made trips outside the
United States.

Another provision allows immigrants who apply for residency to pay a $1,000 fee
and complete the process in the United States, rather than return to their home
country to await a visa. The rule benefits those who face a 10-year bar on
returning to the United States if they had entered the country illegally.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              137 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 22, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

ON IMMIGRATION POLICY, CONGRESS OUT IN THE COLD

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 411 words


Republicans in Congress were prepared to reject even modest reforms to U.S.
immigration policy until floods of phone calls and faxes from employers hit them
this month. The national shortage of workers is so acute that business owners
need to keep illegal immigrants here to fill essential jobs Americans won't
take.

So the GOP leadership relented and agreed to ease some restrictions on
immigrants who have been living in the United States for 15 years or more. The
changes do not approach what the Clinton administration sought, which was
amnesty for about 1 million refugees of Central American wars. Republican
leaders instead kept in place a policy that picks winners and losers based on
Cold-War thinking. Cubans and Nicaraguans will continue to receive preferential
treatment not extended to Guatemalans, Hondurans, Salvadorans and Haitians.

Other casualties of unfairness were mothers, children and believers in due
process. Congress refused to allow states the option to provide health care to
pregnant immigrant women and their children. About 700,000 legal immigrants who
lost food-stamp benefits because of the welfare reform act four years ago were
denied them again. The GOP leadership also shot down a proposal that would have
helped certain immigrants who are subject to deportation because they committed
relatively minor crimes. Under a 1996 law, a large number of offenses, including
misdemeanors, were retroactively classified as aggravated felonies requiring
deportation. "A stunning piece of cruelty is left uncorrected," said Rep. Barney
Frank, D-Mass. "The 1996 law has ruined families, destroyed lives and inflicted
pain on innocent children."

Republicans' concession to the pleas of employers came in the resurrection of a
law that expired two years ago. It allows workers to obtain green cards while
residing here. The provision, known as Section 245(i) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, will be reinstated until April 30. The change will help perhaps
400,000 immigrants stay on the job, but that is fewer than half of the number
the Clinton administration wanted.

Shameful contradictions in U.S. policy remain intact. Lawmakers still like some
civil wars more than others and treat their refugees accordingly. Congress wants
to use immigrants to fill the low-level labor positions that keep the economy
humming but won't give them benefits or livable wages. Principles of American
justice do not apply to immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              138 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 4, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

INS TO HELP WITH IMMIGRANT PROBLEMS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 509 words


Federal immigration agents will be assigned to Palm Beach County to help police
remove immigrant lawbreakers from area streets - and the country, officials said
Friday.

The Riviera Beach office also is now offering full citizenship services so
applicants no longer need to travel to Miami.

The investigators, detention officers and assistants will double the size of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office that serves Palm Beach, Martin,
St. Lucie and five other counties.

"We are getting more requests from local police departments that need our
assistance," said Walter H. Lee Jr., acting officer in charge of the office.

No investigators now work in the office, but they come to the area from Broward
or Miami-Dade counties on special details, he said.

More immigrants with criminal histories are leaving the Miami area for Palm
Beach County and the Treasure Coast because they find living conditions more
attractive, Lee said.

"What people are finding is that the neighbor next door is not the nice person
you thought he was," said Lee, on temporary assignment here from his job as
immigration director at Miami International Airport.

Since Jan. 1, Lake Worth police working with immigration agents picked up 14
immigrants convicted of drug trafficking or violent crimes. They were taken to
Krome Detention Center near Miami and placed in deportation proceedings.

A law passed in 1996 allows INS to deport immigrants convicted of serious
crimes, even if they are legal residents.

INS agents have also picked up immigrants accused of human rights abuses in
their homelands. A Lake Park man was deported Jan. 17 because he was suspected
of being a member of FRAPH, a political group in Haiti accused of violence
against the Haitian population.

A Honduran man accused of similar human rights abuses in his Central American
county in the 1980s was arrested in Lake Worth last summer.

Unless the immigrants commit new crimes, there is little that police alone can
do to remove them from the community.

"We have limited ability to enforce or carry out federal statutes," said Lake
Worth Police Chief Bill Smith. "I think having some special agents assigned to
deal with criminal aliens and smuggling will be important for our county."

The addition of INS agents would allow the Border Patrol to spend more time
catching immigrants sneaking into the area by sea and over the highways from the
Mexican border.

Some of the investigators could be in place before Oct. 1, when this budget year
ends, said John Shewairy, Miami district chief of staff who oversees the Riviera
Beach office. The goal is to provide all immigration services at the local
office, he said.

The office, at 301 Broadway in the Port Executive Center, once sent immigrants
to the Miami office for citizenship and other services. The office this week
began to process all citizenship applications, which number about 3,000 a year,
he said.

"Now, there will be no reason for anyone to go to Miami," Lee said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              139 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                March 1, 2001 Thursday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SUIT: FORT PIERCE MAN DEPORTED ILLEGALLY 1 LINE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 527 words


Wilner Timothee wanders the streets in Haiti, homeless and without papers in a
country he had never stepped foot in before the U.S. government deported him
there.

Timothee, born in the Bahamas and raised in Fort Pierce, is one of several legal
residents of the United States to be shipped illegally to Haiti in recent
months, attorneys say in a lawsuit filed in Miami last week against the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

An immigration judge ordered the residents deported to the Bahamas, not Haiti,
the lawyers say.

Although the INS admits no wrongdoing, it is bringing back two deportees to
rehear their cases.

"The INS is committed to do the right thing," said Patricia Mancha, spokeswoman
for the Miami INS office. "We reviewed the cases and basically decided to bring
them back to appear before an immigration judge."

Court records identify those returning as Kervence Carry and Gertha Clairville.
Cheryl Little, an attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami,
says three are still in Haiti, including Timothee.

Clairville, 21, of Miami, was deported to Haiti in October for having a criminal
record since coming from the Bahamas in 1982. A 1996 immigration law allows the
INS to deport legal residents of the U.S. who have committed certain crimes.

Clairville should have had a chance to fight deportation to Haiti, Little said.

Labeled an undesirable, Clairville was imprisoned in Haiti and sleeps on the
floor of a filthy cell with little food and inadequate clothing, Little said.
Clairville did not commit a crime in Haiti, Little said, but that country
routinely jails deportees who have criminal records.

Information on Carry, the other person being returned to the U.S., was not
immediately available Wednesday.

In a letter to Little dated Feb. 16, INS District Director Robert Wallis said
that, although Clairville and Carry are natives of the Bahamas, they are
citizens of Haiti. Little says that's not true, and in the lawsuit, she says the
INS had identified Clairville as a Bahamian citizen in earlier court documents.

Timothee, 27, also was jailed when he arrived in Haiti in November but was freed
last week, said his sister, Carline Timothee of Fort Pierce.

As was Clairville, Timothee was detained by INS after serving a prison sentence.
He had served 15 months on a drug charge and agents were waiting when he was
released in 1999.

"It's just not right," said Carline Timothee, 28, who was also born in the
Bahamas to Haitian-born parents. "If anything happens to our brother, the U.S.
government is going to be held to blame."

She said her brother has lived in the U.S. since he was 4 and has forgotten most
of the Creole language spoken in Haiti. He's homeless, without relatives and
survives on a little money from his Fort Pierce family.

"We don't know anything about Haiti. We don't know how the trees grow. We don't
know how the water tastes," Carline Timothee said.

She suspects that the Bahamas refused to accept her brother, leaving the INS to
dump him in Haiti.

"You just don't ship them off like that," she said. "That's wrong."

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), Wilner Timothee (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              140 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 25, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MORE ABOUT U.S. THAN 'US': A RUN TO TIE KNOT INS' SHOTGUN: APRIL 30 CUTOFF FOR
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Kathryn Quigley, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Is romance or a new federal law causing the rise in marriage license
applications in Palm Beach, Broward and Miami-Dade counties in the past few
months?

Nothing against Cupid, but marriage license clerks and Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials believe it is the law.

For years, immigrants have been able to apply for residency if they are married
to a citizen or legal resident, but applicants had to return to their home
countries while INS goes through the paperwork - a process that typically takes
years.

A law signed by former President Clinton on Dec. 21 allows the applying spouse
to stay in the U.S. until INS makes its decision - but only if the person
applies by April 30.

During the first two months of this year, the number of marriage licenses issued
in Palm Beach County jumped 17 percent - to 1,801 from 1,543 - compared with the
same period a year ago.

That's also a 50 percent rise from the first two months of 1999.

Court clerks tell tales of couples coming to the counter to apply for marriage
licenses - and having to ask each other their first names, as if they had never
met before.

In the Delray Beach courthouse, clerks issued 131 marriage applications last
week. Half of those couples had at least one person from another country, said
Steve Nichol, communications director for the clerk of courts.

In Broward County, marriage license applications have risen 10 percent compared
with last year.

"We knew something was going on when licenses didn't taper off after Valentine's
Day," said Debby Berriz, Broward County court operations manager for marriage.

In Miami-Dade County, marriage license applications are up 23 percent.

Robert Reboso, manager of marriage licenses in Miami-Dade, said the law, called
the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act, is "definitely" the cause.

It is not the clerk's job to ask prospective newlyweds whether they are legal
residents, Reboso said.

The clerks ask for a photo identification, but a Social Security number is not
needed.

There have been many instances of one person's using a passport or driver
license to apply for the marriage license while the other uses a green card or
immigration papers, Reboso said.

"I think it's obvious that many of the couples coming in to get married are
immigration-related," Reboso said.

Jeffrey Browerman, a former immigration judge and INS official and now a private
immigration lawyer in West Palm Beach, said many of his clients are pushing up
their wedding dates to meet the April 30 deadline.

One young man, a college student and immigrant, wanted to wait until he earned
his degree before getting married to a legal resident.

"Now they're pushing up the wedding," he said.

Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman for INS, said immigrants need to know that
marrying a resident or citizen is not a foolproof way to stay in the country.

Each couple will be interviewed thoroughly by an INS official to make sure the
marriage was not arranged solely for residency purposes, Garcia said.

The LIFE Act, which contains several other changes to immigration law, has
brought long lines to INS centers in the area, but people can call a toll-free
number to get documents by mail.

For more information about the LIFE Act, call (800) 375-5283 or visit
www.ins.gov.

kathryn_quigley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W), REBECCA VAUGHAN/Staff Artist
, Weddings leap
, Marriage license applications are up in South Florida since a, temporary
change in immigration law allowed immigrants married to, legal U.S. residents by
April 30 to remain in the country while they, apply for residency. Another law
change caused a similar spike in, 1997. The totals for January and February for
1997 through 2001:
, Source: County clerks of courts

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              141 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 28, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

WORKERS ARE GETTING SICK, PROMPTING AN AGENCY MOVE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Watery eyes, burning sinuses and pounding headaches go with the job for the
immigration officers who work in an old pagoda-themed plaza.

It's not the stress of dealing with hundreds of immigrants each day that bothers
the workers but an unidentified contaminant that they say is in the building's
air.

"God knows what the place is doing to us," said one coughing worker who asked
not to be identified. "This is a sick building."

After 10 months of complaints from employees, the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service has decided to declare the building non grata. It hopes
to leave before its 18-month lease expires Aug. 31.

The INS rents the Port Executive Plaza office at 301 Broadway for $8,045 a month
from the Port of Palm Beach, which has spent more than $20,000 for
air-conditioning repairs, duct cleaning and other attempts to make the air more
friendly.

An air analysis ordered last summer by the U.S. General Services Administration
failed to detect what was causing the illnesses. EnHealth Environmental Inc. of
Fort Lauderdale did not find abnormal levels of carbon monoxide or fungi but
suggested more detailed studies.

"Rather than pursue with the port to do a massive study, we are going to try to
get the employees out of there," said Gary Mote, a spokesman for the GSA, an
agency charged with finding and maintaining office space for government
operations. Mote said it may take three to four months to move to a new office.

Port officials say they acted quickly when EnHealth Environmental suggested in
June cleaning the air-conditioning ducts and coils and replacing two undersized
filters. INS workers breathed easily for about two weeks but the complaints
returned, officials said.

Port Director Anthony Taormina said the port is working with its tenant to find
a solution. But Taormina does not believe the building poses a health risk. "It
has not been demonstrated that there is any problem there," he said.

About 30 INS employees work in the offices at the north side of the 40-year-old
building, once noted for its 230-foot concrete tower, which was demolished in
1998. No visitors to the office have reported illnesses, the INS said.

Some employees who felt they were not being taken seriously complained to U.S.
Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
An OSHA spokesman confirmed the workplace safety agency is investigating "indoor
air quality," but declined further comment.

INS spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia said an INS health officer and physician are
monitoring the complaints.

"We are concerned about the health and well-being not only of our employees but
of the community we serve," Garcia said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: MAP (B&W), TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist
, Location of INS regional office

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              142 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 1, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RUSH INS TO BEAT VISA DEADLINE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 235 words


About 500 immigrants lined up early Monday outside the Riviera Beach office of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to file last-minute applications
for legal residency under a new law.

Midnight Monday was the deadline to apply for the chance to win residency for
immigrants who are in the country illegally. Beginning today, such immigrants
must first return to their home countries if they want to apply for U.S.
residency.

An estimated 640,000 immigrants nationwide could benefit from the Legal
Immigration and Family Equity Act, which took effect in December.

Immigration offices across the county saw large crowds Monday, particulary in
cities with high immigrant populations.

Some people who began lining up at the Riviera Beach office before 5 a.m. Monday
were still standing in line at 1:30 p.m.

On a normal day, the office, at 301 Broadway, accepts about 30 applications for
immigrants seeking permanent residency.

Another 200 applications were turned in Saturday, said INS spokesman Rodney
Germain.

Applicants had to show they qualified for residency through marriage or close
family members who are legal residents.

The marriage option prompted a flood of April weddings. The Palm Beach County
Clerk of Courts office Monday said 1,321 marriage applications were accepted
last month through Friday, compared to 715 in April last year.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              143 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 1, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

END THESE LIFE SENTENCES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 407 words


U.S. immigration policy never has been short on contradictions. Yet the bombing
of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City inspired more. Congress reacted
to the tragedy by passing tough new restrictions on immigrants, hoping to send a
strong signal to international terrorists.

Of course, international terrorists or even immigrants had nothing to do with
the bombing. Americans conceived it, and an American carried it out. Still,
Congress felt the political pressure to do something, so in 1996, lawmakers
approved a bundle of immigration bills, among them the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act and the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act. The two laws dramatically changed the government's treatment
of immigrants who commit crimes or face deportation for other reasons.

Last week, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments on the wisdom of those changes
and whether Congress went too far. As it stands, legal immigrants who are
convicted of certain crimes, mostly aggravated felonies, can be deported - even
if they committed the crimes years before the law was changed. That might have
been defensible, but Congress made the deportation automatic, all but eliminated
judicial review and included relatively minor, victimless offenses. Crimes of
youth such as shoplifting and simple drug possession became grounds for
deportation. Justice Stephen Breyer likened the law's contorted language to "one
of these brain teasers in the newspaper. It's very complex."

The retroactivity provision can devastate families. One of the two cases before
the court involves Deboris Calcano-Martinez, a legal resident who came to the
U.S. in 1971 at age 3 from the Dominican Republic. The mother of four children,
all U.S. citizens, pleaded guilty in 1996, before the new laws were passed, to
selling heroin in New York City and was sentenced to one to three years in
prison. Had Ms. Calcano-Martinez known a guilty plea subjected her to
deportation, she would have chosen another legal course.

Apart from the high court, Democrats in Congress are working to repeal the law's
retroactivity and the reclassification of some misdemeanors as aggravated crimes
that warrant deportation. Five years ago, Congress vented its outrage over
Oklahoma City at immigrants instead of native-born terrorists. An angry Congress
felt the pressure to do something - so it wrote bad law and punished the wrong
people.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              144 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 23, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS: FOREIGN NURSES COULD EASE SHORTAGE

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Short-handed hospitals pressed Congress Tuesday to open U.S. borders to more
foreign-born nurses despite objections from the largest union of health care
workers.

The American Hospital Association, in testimony submitted to the Senate
Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee, urged streamlined immigration
laws to help ease the nationwide shortage of registered nurses.

"Our current and daunting shortage is unlike any we have seen in the past," said
Bradley LeBaron, who heads a small hospital in Roosevelt, Utah.

LeBaron said that some medical services are threatened by the increasing
difficulty of finding and keeping nurses.

He said rural medical centers are among those having trouble hiring and keeping
nursing staff.

Bringing in more foreign-trained nurses is "one way to apply a salve to this
growing wound afflicting our health care system," he said.

However, critics called the remedy no more than a bandage for the complex
problem of the nursing staff crunch.

"If the problem were just too few nurses in this country, easing immigration
might make sense," said Diane Sosne, a registered nurse with the Service
Employees International Union.

Sosne argued the nursing shortage is not caused by a lack of nurses but by poor
working conditions in understaffed hospitals that have been driving nurses away
in recent years.

She said the long-term solutions include giving nurses a bigger voice in
hospital decision-making and banning mandatory overtime.

Moreover, she argued that the nursing shortage is a worldwide trend, so that
importing more nurses into the United States would drain skilled workers needed
abroad.

Senate Judiciary subcommittee chairman Sam Brownback, R-Kan., said his panel is
considering action on the nursing shortage. He was not specific, however.

Many hospitals already recruit nurses from abroad, although they complain that
federal paperwork often makes the effort cumbersome.

They are seeking a renewal of a visa program passed in the late 1980s during the
last nurses shortage but allowed to expire in 1995.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              145 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 15, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

THE USUAL SUSPECTS USUALLY FOREIGN

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 692 words


Having disposed of Tim McVeigh, we're left to reflect on ourselves and how we
respond to acts of terrorism. His execution rekindles the debate over capital
punishment, and you will hear much of this in the weeks ahead.

What you won't hear about is the collateral damage the country inflicted upon
itself and innocent bystanders in the months after the bombing. Among the lost
casualties of Oklahoma City are thousands of immigrants an angry Congress
victimized in its reckless urgency to do something - anything - to strike back
against the forces of evil.

Never mind that these new anti-terrorist laws targeted people who had nothing to
do with terrorism or that they tore apart families. The lawmakers needed to show
constituents tangible evidence America was acting to protect itself. So the
usual suspects, foreigners, were identified and punished, and in time for the
1996 elections. Voters seemed to feel better about that - safer, even.

From the outset, from the moment the Murrah Federal Building exploded,
law-enforcement officials and most citizens assumed it was the work of
foreigners, as the World Trade Center bombing had been two years before. This
national perception lingered even after the arrests of two native-born,
Middle-America-grown former U.S. soldiers.

The anti-foreigner sentiment swept through the halls of Congress and led to
sweeping changes in immigration policy. Two laws quickly passed: the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act; and the Anti-Terrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act.

The acts gave federal prosecutors new enforcement powers, among them the
authority to detain foreign nationals suspected of terrorism without detailing
why. Secret evidence put immigrants in jails and kept them there for years. The
laws also retroactively classified a large number of offenses, including some
misdemeanors, as aggravated felonies requiring deportation. Minor drug charges
that occurred years before 1996 suddenly rose as grounds for imprisonment and
banishment. Foreigners who tried to fight deportation found new restrictions
that made that more difficult.

Muslims and Arabs became targets of choice, simply because of the obvious links
between their ethnic origins and Americans' stereotypic view of what terrorists
are supposed to look like. In Tampa, secret evidence kept Mazen Najjar, a
University of South Florida professor from the United Arab Emirates, in jail for
three years on a minor work visa violation - until then-Attorney General Janet
Reno finally relented and ordered his release in December.

Congress also reformed welfare in 1996 and kicked foreigners some more. About
700,000 legal immigrants lost food-stamp benefits, and the states lost the
option of using federal money to provide health-care benefits for pregnant
immigrants and their children.

The Republican leadership for the past five years has thwarted efforts to
restore immigrants' judicial due process and health benefits. Unfortunately,
Oklahoma City provided only the sense of urgency to write the bad laws, not the
common sense to see their misguided pretexts. The oppressive penalties imposed
on foreigners have no rational basis.

If lawmakers really wanted to respond to Tim McVeigh's terrorism, they would
have set up borders around suburban Buffalo, N.Y, and put people from Pendleton
under surveillance. Congress should have empowered the FBI to jail suspicious
western New Yorkers without evidence and ordered health officials to deny
benefits to pregnant women. Army veterans convicted of misdemeanors should have
been banished overseas.

Congress, like the rest of the country, has trouble using American as an
adjective for terrorist. Unable to look beyond that denial or our outrage, we
make villains of the vulnerable and keep descriptions of terrorists as foreign
as possible.

Great efforts to understand Tim McVeigh and his heinous deed continue. But as
with all the worst criminals, we end up understanding less about them than they
show us about ourselves.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              146 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 20, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

LATINO GROUP ASKS CONGRESS TO PROTECT MEXICAN WORKERS

BYLINE: Eunice Moscoso, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As the Bush administration develops a plan that could allow thousands of
temporary Mexican workers into the United States, a Latino civil rights group
urged Congress to proceed with caution.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy for the National Council of La Raza,
said Tuesday any new guestworker program must improve over past attempts, which
she said have been fraught with abuses.

"Workers need to be fully covered in terms of labor rights . . . the ability to
change employers, the ability to participate in labor unions (and) access to
legal services," she said. "They must also have the ability to keep their
families with them, if they choose."

Munoz and others testified at a House Immigration subcommittee hearing about
temporary work visas.

The hearing comes as the Bush White House is working with Mexico to develop
several immigration policies to benefit both countries.

In February, the new administrations of Mexican President Vicente Fox and
President Bush made the pursuit of a new guestworker program with Mexico a
centerpiece of closer U.S.-Mexico relations. Such a program, they said, would
supply labor while reducing illegal and dangerous border crossings.

But several Mexican-American groups and immigrant advocacy organizations have
said they will not support a program unless it provides the workers some chance
at legal residency.

In the Senate, Texas Republican Phil Gramm is planning to introduce a
guestworker bill that will not include any option of permanent residency.

Gramm's plan would allow Mexicans to work legally for a determined amount of
time in agriculture, construction and other jobs, including those in the service
industry.

In addition, Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., is working on a bill that would allow
Mexican workers to seek permanent U.S. residence under certain conditions.

eunicem@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              147 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 27, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

RULING ON IMMIGRANTS NEGATES DOUBLE-CROSS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 421 words


The impetuous work of an angry Congress, determined to strike back against the
Oklahoma City bombing, lasted five years before the U.S. Supreme Court could
correct it Monday. In the interim, bad law damaged the lives of thousands of
immigrants who became casualties of lawmakers' misguided sanctions.

In a 5-4 decision, the high court ruled that the government cannot deport
resident immigrants who have been convicted of certain crimes without giving
them a judicial hearing. The ruling invalidates parts of two 1996 laws - the
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act and the Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act - that Congress designed to hasten the removal of
immigrants with criminal records, ostensibly ridding the country of potential
terrorists.

What lawmakers actually did was assess unduly harsh penalties for minor crimes
and do so retroactively. The laws allowed the deportation of legal immigrants
convicted of drug-related misdemeanors and put offenses such as shoplifting and
petty theft in the same class of aggravated felonies with murder and rape. The
government resurrected youthful indiscretions and redefined them as absolute
reasons for expulsion. Thousands of immigrants who were here working and raising
families suddenly faced deportation for brushes with the law that occurred years
before Congress even conceived the 1996 acts.

Many immigrants became victims of a legal double-cross: They had agreed to plead
guilty to old non-violent crimes with the understanding they would not be
deported, then found out the new laws changed their deals - and without
permitting judicial review of their cases. Justice John Paul Stevens, writing
for the majority, says the elimination of any provision for appealing
deportation "has an obnoxious and severe retroactive effect." The majority
opinion correctly endorses immigrants' access to the courts and rejects the
ludicrous idea that Immigration and Naturalization Service employees should do
the work of judges.

Some states, seeing the inherent unfairness of the '96 laws, did what they could
to find remedies. In Georgia, for example, the Board of Pardons and Parole
pardoned about 150 immigrants convicted of minor offenses to spare them
deportation. Implicit in the Supreme Court's ruling is an admonishment to
Congress against hasty and vindictive law-making. To protect the nation against
terrorism, crack down against terrorists - not foreigners. They are not the
same, as Oklahoma City has taught us so painfully.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              148 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 26, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

CAR-BOMBING CONSPIRATOR WHO HID IN FLORIDA FREED CUBAN NATIONALIST PAZ RELEASED
AFTER COURT RULING

BYLINE: Bill Douthat and Mary McLachlin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Friends of Cuban nationalist and car-bombing conspirator Virgilio Paz Romero
rejoiced Wednesday at the news that he was suddenly and finally free.

Paz, 49, who hid out in Palm Beach County for years before his arrest in 1991,
became one of the first people released from "indefinite detention" by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the
practice unconstitutional last month.

"Oh, my God, I'm so happy!" said Miriam Eterginio of West Palm Beach, a former
vice chairman of the Hispanic Human Resources Council. "He is my buddy. . . . It
was most unfortunate, what happened, but his friends loved him very much."

What happened was the Sept. 21, 1976, bomb blast that killed former Chilean
Ambassador Orlando Letelier and Ronni Moffitt, the wife of Letelier aide Michael
Moffitt, as they drove along Washington's Embassy Row. Michael Moffitt survived
the attack, which authorities called the most notorious act of international
terrorism ever carried out in the capital.

Letelier served as Chile's ambassador to Washington and foreign minister and
defense minister in the 1970s under President Salvador Allende, whose friendly
relations with Fidel Castro earned him the enmity of Cuban exiles. Allende was
killed in a 1973 coup led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet, and U.S. officials alleged
that Pinochet ordered the assassination of Letelier to silence his criticism of
the regime.

The FBI said Paz and two other men planted the bomb and that Paz detonated it.
He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to murder a foreign official and served 6 1/2
years of a 12-year sentence before being paroled in 1998.

The INS immediately took him into custody, saying he was a flight risk and
danger to the community. An immigration judge ordered him deported, but the U.S.
has no deportation agreement with Cuba, so he remained in limbo in a Bradenton
INS center until the U.S. District Court in Miami ordered him released Tuesday.

The U.S. Attorney's Office, representing the INS, dropped its opposition to
freeing Paz after the Supreme Court ruling. The decision ultimately could affect
as many as 300 detainees in Florida and 3,400 nationwide.

"I'm shocked. The system worked," Paz told the Bradenton Herald after his sudden
release. "It's lamentable that it took so long, but it worked. God bless
democracy."

Paz's father, an officer in the pre-Castro Cuban army, died of pneumonia in
Mexico as the family fled Cuba in 1961. The family settled in New Jersey, where
Paz became involved with the Cuban Nationalist Movement and was alleged to have
taken part in terrorist missions abroad.

After the Letelier bombing, Paz lived as a fugitive for 13 years, using the name
Francisco "Frank" Baez, starting up a landscape business and making his home in
Lake Worth and other Palm Beach County cities. He married and had two children,
a son, Xavier, now 17, and daughter, Tania, 12.

Part of his plea agreement was that no charges would be brought against his
wife, Idania Jorge Borrega, who neighbors said knew nothing about her husband's
past.

The couple divorced after Paz's arrest, and Jorge said Wednesday she had no
comment on his release. Paz told the Bradenton paper he planned to stay with his
godmother until he could find work and housing close to his children.

His old friends were prepared to welcome him home. Jorge Avellana, who who sent
Paz books and phone cards while he was in custody, called him "a friend . . . a
Cuban patriot."

"It's the happiest day of my life," Avellana said, "other than the day in the
future when I return to a free Cuba."

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

mary_mclachlin@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Palm Beach Post file photo
, FBI agents usher Virgilio Paz Romero, who had evaded authorities for, 13
years, into federal court on April 23, 1991.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              149 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 18, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWS GIVE INVESTIGATORS FREEDOM TO PROBE

BYLINE: Elliot Jaspin, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


United States immigration laws, which provide far fewer protections to the
accused, are becoming an important tool in the government's massive
investigation into the attacks last week on the Pentagon and New York's World
Trade Center.

FBI Chief Robert Mueller said Monday that the government has so far arrested 49
people on immigration violations who are believed to be in some way connected to
the attacks on Sept. 11. Those familiar with immigration laws say the use of
such statutes allows the federal government to wield enormous powers that would
not be available to them in a criminal case.

When an alien is charged with a criminal violation such as murder, he is
afforded the normal protections of any U.S. citizen. But if an alien violates
immigration laws, many of those same safeguards do not apply.

"In a case like this, it seems entirely justified because you want to get to the
bottom of it," said Sheela Murthy, a Harvard-trained immigration lawyer who
practices in Baltimore. But she said the government powers in immigration cases
are chilling.

Officials at the U.S. Justice Department did not respond to requests Monday for
an interview.

Because of the way immigration laws are written, Murthy said, it is extremely
easy for the government to arrest any alien at any time.

She said, for example, that an alien who comes to America on a tourist visa can
be arrested for mowing the lawn because that constitutes work.

Once an alien is arrested, many legal safeguards intended to check the
government's power are simply absent.

The government has declined, for example, to disclose the names of the 49
arrested over the last week, what they are charged with or where they are being
held.

elliotj@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              150 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 21, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

STRIKING BACK AT THE INNOCENTS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 688 words


Within weeks after the Oklahoma City bombing, an angry Congress wrote sweeping
changes to the nation's immigration laws.

Lawmakers gave the government more latitude to remove immigrants with criminal
records, ostensibly to get rid of potential terrorists before they could do
harm. The new laws, however, quickly proved as misguided as the notion that
inspired them - that the terrorism of Timothy McVeigh somehow should be answered
with a crackdown against foreigners.

The 1996 immigration and anti-terrorism laws were so unfair and unenforceable
that this summer the U.S. Supreme Court struck down their major provisions,
ruling that they assessed unduly harsh penalties for minor crimes and even did
so retroactively. Congress also penalized foreigners with welfare reform,
denying about 700,000 legal immigrants food stamps and Medicaid benefits. The
reform also refused to allow the states the option to provide health care to
pregnant immigrants and their children.

The get-tough response to Oklahoma City, we now know, did nothing to prevent the
terrorism of last week. Neither did it solve border control problems or address
the need for a Mexican guest worker program or attempt to relieve the economic
burdens left on the states.

Congress ignored the hard but essential work that would have brought true
immigration reform and instead made targets of people who had jobs and were
contributing to the U.S. economy, raising families and avoiding even remote
association with terrorism.

Recent changes in immigration policy actually put the terrorist hijackers into a
class of foreigner the government considers desirable: They were highly
educated. They were technically skilled. They had money. They spoke English. The
Republican Congress consistently has favored granting visas to immigrants with
this profile from Asia and Europe over those without skills or education from
Central and South America. And the federal government often has been more
concerned about deporting a foreigner over a misdemeanor drug possession rather
than investigating another's potential links to terrorist networks.

Americans continue to suffer the consequences of an approach to immigration that
is a hodgepodge of half-baked solutions, ethnic bias, angry lawmaking and
political posturing. Decisions are thrown at the crisis of the moment without
context or a long view. We react with new laws to suit the moment; we do not
create them as part of a comprehensive, thoughtful path for the country to
follow.

Last week's terrorist attacks appear likely to generate a rash of measures again
designed to toughen immigration laws. The Bush administration already has
announced it had rewritten the rules for detention of immigrants suspected of
committing crimes, extending the deadline for a detainee's release from 24 to 48
hours. Congress is discussing further restrictions against immigrants, much of
the language coming from the White House which is working on a broad
anti-terrorism package.

The mistakes of 1996 threaten to reappear. The warm, promising talks between
Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of Mexico about border migration seem ancient,
as the nation is poised again to strike back against evil-doers by striking back
against immigrants in general.

Before a rash Congress hastily infringes on constitutional freedoms, lawmakers
should consider whether the terrorist hijackings demonstrate a failure of
immigration law, or rather a failure of the nation's intelligence and
enforcement. Existing laws already ban admission of people with criminal
histories or ties to terrorist groups. A more useful task for Congress would be
figuring out how federal agencies such as the FBI, CIA and INS did not work
together to use the legal tools at their disposal.

Penalizing millions of immigrants who live lawfully to retaliate against the
actions of 19 criminals is typical, however, of the U.S. approach to dealing
with its pool of humanity. When all else fails, we embrace our stereotypes.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              151 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 12, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

INS SAYS IT'S BEEN UNABLE TO FIND 300,000 DEPORTEES

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has a backlog of 300,000 cases
of foreigners who have been ordered out of the country but who slipped out of
sight before they could be deported.

"If the INS can find the person, we deport them," spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar
said on Thursday.

The trouble is many change their names or move to an unknown address, and the
INS has only 2,000 investigative agents nationwide to track them down.

"The numbers are against us," she said.

In response, the agency has classified hundreds of thousands of cases as
"unexecutable" deportation orders and focused its attention on arresting aliens
who are known criminals. The rest of the deportables merely have to keep a low
profile and avoid trouble with local law enforcement, she said.

"In fact, that's part of the difficulty with (finding) the individuals
affiliated with bin Laden," Kraushaar said of the government's new focus on
ferreting out the terrorist organization led by Saudi-born Osama Bin Laden.

If terrorists come into the country as "sleepers," live quietly, and wait for
orders to strike, she said, "It's very difficult to find them."

Even if such people have been ordered deported by a federal immigration court
because they overstayed their visas, they might not have come to the attention
of the INS investigators, Kraushaar said.

Foreigners can be deported for a number of reasons, including criminal
activities. The most common charges involve some kind of visa violation, usually
staying longer than authorized.

Moreover, aliens frequently avoid deportation by failing to appear for legal
proceedings. In 1999, for example, the Justice Department's Executive Office for
Immigration Review heard more than 215,000 deportation cases. In roughly 25
percent, the defendant was a no-show. The number of aliens who evade deportation
has been relatively little noticed until now. However, Rep. Tom Tancredo,
R-Colo., said the numbers so angered one federal administrative immigration
judge that he recently called to complain that aliens he ordered deported
continue to live freely in the country.

Tancredo, who heads a congressional immigration reform caucus, has raised the
subject with fellow Republicans and the House leadership. Still, it's unclear if
action will be taken.

"It's nothing that can be handled tomorrow because there are only 2,000 people"
in the INS investigative branch, he said in an interview. "So it will come more
as a result of reforms of the INS."

"Maybe we could force them to share their information with local police and have
the local police see if they can pick these people up," Tancredo suggested.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              152 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                October 28, 2001 Sunday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

VETERANS

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 116

LENGTH: 158 words


Veterans Affairs: The 265-bed Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach
serves over a quarter of a million veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie,
Indian River, Glades, Okeechobee and Hendry counties. The VA also operates
outpatient clinics in Boca Raton, Delray Beach, Stuart, Fort Pierce, Vero Beach
and Okeechobee. Veterans who need information on services can call 882-8262. The
Vet Center, 585-0441, at 2311 10th Ave. N., Suite 13, in Lake Worth, provides
free counseling for job placement, benefits and post-traumatic stress disorders.

IMMIGRATION

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service: Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Office at 301 Broadway in Riviera Beach serves Palm Beach,
Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River, Okeechobee, Hendry, Glades and Highland
counties. Phone (800) 375-5283 for recorded messages on immigration regulations.
The information is also on the Web site www.ins.usdoj.gov.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
DISCOVER THE TREASURE COAST

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              153 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 15, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ASHCROFT TO RESTRUCTURE U.S. IMMIGRATION SERVICE

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft announced Wednesday that he is restructuring the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to make the much-criticized agency "a
better servant to our friends and a greater obstacle to our enemies."

In his first step in a plan for reorganizing the Justice Department for the war
against terrorism, Ashcroft unveiled a blueprint for separating the two, often
conflicting functions of the INS. Under the new setup, an enforcement wing would
guard the borders and enforce immigration laws, and a service wing would assist
legal immigrants, grant residency cards and oversee naturalization.

Regional and district directors who now oversee both service and law enforcement
will be eliminated.

A single INS commissioner, who is now James Ziglar, would continue to oversee
both functions.

Critics have urged separating the two INS tasks to improve what they say has
been lax enforcement of immigration laws and poor service to legal immigrants.

Ashcroft said the INS would immediately begin to implement changes, although the
full restructuring would take two years and require some congressional action.

Under his outline, nine enforcement offices would coordinate efforts by Border
Patrol agents, inspectors and investigators. These offices would be in Atlanta,
New York, Chicago, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Denver, San Diego, San Francisco,
Seattle, and El Paso, Texas.

A separate immigration service wing would be divided into six areas, with
headquarters in Tampa or St. Petersburg; Burlington, Vt.; Dallas; Milwaukee;
Laguna Niguel, Calif.; and Vancouver, Wash.

Currently, the INS has 33 district offices, which oversee both law enforcement
and immigration services. Justice Department officials said that major cities,
such as Atlanta, Miami, and Denver, which now have district offices, will
continue to have INS sites for person-to-person services on immigration issues.
In fact, the INS expects its personnel to expand by 522 as a result of the
reorganization.

Ashcroft said the realignment is aimed at establishing a clear chain of command
for law enforcement officials to help them block terrorists from entry or remove
those who are already here.

The administration's plan received mixed reviews from those involved in the
immigration debate.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., called it
"inadequate for truly restructuring this troubled agency" and said that he
feared it could result in "making things worse at the agency."

/webtext>

juliam@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

Immigration and Naturalization Service:

www.ins.gov

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              154 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 26, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

CLOSE THE RIGHT BORDER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 401 words


The contorted state of U.S. immigration policy becomes more apparent with each
disturbing detail investigators uncover about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
The latest disclosure, that authorities believe all 19 hijackers entered the
country legally, underscores the need for reform that sharpens the lines
defining people the nation wants to come here and those it must keep out.

While the government handed visas to suicidal terrorists, millions of immigrants
from Mexico and Latin America still carry the stigma of illegal status, though
they work hard, fill unwanted jobs, pay taxes and make essential contributions
to the U.S. economy. Three months ago, the Bush administration and Congress were
discussing ways to grant residency to many of the nation's estimated 8.5 million
undocumented workers, most of them Mexicans. Public sentiment about immigration
swung radically after the terrorist attacks, however, and lawmakers abandoned
reforms, considering them too politically unsavory.

The Democratic leadership in Congress wants to return to the issue. Senate
Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., and House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt,
D-Mo., visited Mexico two weeks ago and met with President Vicente Fox and
parliament leaders. Sen. Daschle and Rep. Gephardt say they are committed to "an
earned legalization program," under which millions of Mexican immigrants could
work their way toward legal status. The lawmakers correctly believe the
government shouldn't treat hard-working people who don't have documents as if
they are criminals, particularly since it has treated criminals as welcome
guests.

President Fox not only deserves U.S. support; he needs it, as he faces recession
and long-festering social problems within his country. Tom Ridge, U.S. director
of homeland security, has praised Mr. Fox for taking progressive steps to stem
the flow of terrorist money and restricting access to Mexican airspace. Mexico
is computerizing its antiquated immigration records system and cooperating with
the United States on tightening border security, proposing even an innovative
"North American security perimeter" that would link Mexican, Canadian and U.S.
criminal databases.

Sentiment for changing the U.S. approach to immigration has grown near unanimous
in Congress. Lawmakers who seek tough restrictions to respond to terrorism
should aim them at the right immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              155 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 2, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

S. FLORIDIANS GET SNAGGED IN EXPANDING INS DRAGNET

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1181 words


In normal times, Fahad Rashid's technical violations of his student visa would
have gone unnoticed by immigration authorities.

But the full force of the law is being used against the former Florida Atlantic
University student as a cloud of national suspicion follows Middle Easterners
who are in the United States on temporary visas.

Rashid, 22, who came from Qatar two years ago, has spent six weeks behind bars
at the Krome detention center near Miami. He has no idea when he will be
released, his family and friends say.

Visitors estimate the immigration lock-up holds about 50 Muslims, based on the
daily gatherings for outdoor prayer. Krome used to freely disclose the
nationalities of the 500 detainees at the center but has declined to give
specifics since Sept. 11.

"I'm concerned where we are headed as a nation," said Shahzad Ahmed, an
immigration attorney practicing in North Miami who represents 10 of the Muslim
clients in detention. "Before Sept. 11, we had struck a balance between liberty
and safety. We now are now moving toward safety and maybe giving up some of our
liberties."

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service defends its policy of detaining
those who violate or overstay their visas, saying the intent is to prevent
further terrorist attacks.

"That's a question for the American people, whether they think that overstaying
is a minor technicality, particularly in the post-Sept. 11 world," said INS
spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said last week that 548 people are being held
nationwide on immigration violations detected during the terrorism
investigation.

Ahmed and Muslim community leaders acknowledge the urgency of breaking up the
terrorist network in the United States but add that Muslims and Arabs seem to be
targeted in enforcing minor visa violations.

"You would seldom find a Canadian detained at Krome," Ahmed said.

The dragnet caught Rashid because he had transferred to Broward Community
College without the knowledge of the INS and was taking nine credit hours
instead of the required 12, said his uncle, Mustafa Alzadgally of Fort
Lauderdale.

Rashid thought he was taking 12 credit hours but found out that three of the
hours were in a non-credit course, Alzadgally said.

"It's all about Sept. 11," Alzadgally said. "They've been arresting a thousand
people, especially Muslims and Arabs. The immigration judge in Miami told my son
that the FBI didn't want him in the country."

The FBI questioned Rashid five days after the Sept. 11 terror attacks based on a
rumor that he had been seen talking with terrorist Mohamed Atta at a printing
shop, Alzadgally said.

Atta was the ringleader of the 19 terrorists who crashed two passenger jets into
the World Trade Center in New York City, another into the Pentagon in Washington
and a fourth into the ground near Pittsburgh. Atta lived in South Florida along
with 11 of the other hijackers.

The FBI did not take Rashid into custody then, Alzadgally said. But a month
after the FBI questioned Rashid, INS agents showed up and took him to Krome.

Rosa Leslie, manger of the Fort Lauderdale apartments where Rashid lived with
his uncle, described Rashid as a "nice-mannered young man." Rashid studied hard,
went to his uncle's mosque regularly and sometimes sought her help with his
college work, Leslie said. His visa was to expire next year, she said.

Immigration attorneys say a pattern seems to be emerging that after anyone on a
temporary visa is interviewed by the FBI, the INS comes knocking if there are
any minor violations of the terms of the visa.

"They are on a fishing expedition to find out who's in the community," said
Khurrum Wahid, an attorney and adviser to the Fort Lauderdale-based Council on
American Islamic Relations.

Wahid said he's had contact with about 30 Arabs or Muslims sent to Krome.

"Any technical violations are now detainable," Wahid said. "In the past, being
out of status was not a big deal. You'd pay $75 and file a form."

A man and his son from La Belle, both U.S. citizens, were detained by
immigration officials in Houston Sept. 15 after a business trip to Mexico
because their passports had an extra layer of laminate, a kind sometimes applied
when altering a photo.

Nacer Fathi Mustaf, 29, was held for two months, and his father, Fathi, 65, was
in custody 10 days.

A Winter Park couple, Zuhair Alqahtani, 31, and his wife Hanadi Hababeh, 30,
were arrested Oct. 18 for overstaying their visas and are in separate detention
centers in Miami-Dade County. Like some of the hijackers who toppled the World
Trade Center, Alqahtani, from Saudi Arabia, had attended flight schools in
Florida.

Bond was originally set at $10,000 for both Alqahtani and Hababeh, but court
documents show it was revoked four days after their arrests. Rhonda Gelfman, the
couple's attorney, said no reason was given for the change.

"I've never had bond revoked in 12 years. I think it only had occurred because
of the Sept. 11 incident," Gelfman said.

In another case that shows the depth of the FBI investigation, a Pakistani gas
station attendant was arrested because he had his Florida driver license renewed
just 23 minutes before Atta acquired a license at the same department of motor
vehicles office.

Mohammad Mubeen, 28, who is being held in detention, has admitted he entered the
U.S. illegally but denies knowing Atta.

Other immigrants, including some longtime residents with legal residency, also
are falling in the net. Few of those are detained, but the questions are
worrisome, Wahid said.

"Often, the FBI will go to their home or place of work and show them a binder
with photos of the 19 terrorists and ask if they know any of them," Wahid said.
"But the most disturbing questions are about their religious and political
beliefs."

The Justice Department disclosed last week that it is asking local police
agencies to contact 5,000 Middle Easterners who recently came to the U.S.,
including 160 in South Florida, for interviews to see if they have information
helpful for the terrorism investigation.

The FBI's dragnet sometimes reels in non-Arabs who have shown sympathy for Arab
causes.

Paul Wolff, 78, said an FBI agent spent about a half-hour in his Lake Worth
apartment last month and showed interest in Wolff's 1989 visit to the Mideast to
support the Palestinian cause.

Wolff, who describes himself as "anti-Zionist" but not anti-Semitic, says he
suspects local Jewish organizations urged the FBI to check him out.

He said the FBI might have learned he made a call recently to a Palestinian
living in Belle Glade, or that his visa issued by Palestinian sponsors to visit
the Middle East in 1989 carried the name Brulos, instead of Paul, as his first
name. Brulos is apparently a translation of Paul, Wolff said.

The FBI agent never disclosed why he was interested in Wolff.

"He was very cagey," Wolff said. "When he left, he said there would be no more
visits."

Post wire services contributed to this story.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              156 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 2, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

PUT A LOCK ON THE BACK DOOR

BYLINE: Larry Lipman

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 786 words


It's been almost 22 months since U.S. Rep. Mark Foley told a congressional panel
that the United States should deport people responsible for committing torture
in their home countries.

"Brutal criminals who have gone on violent rampages in Haiti, Yugoslavia and
Rwanda have been able to gain entry to the United States through the same doors
that we have opened to deserving refugees," Rep. Foley, a Republican from West
Palm Beach, told the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration back in
February 2000. "We need to slam the door shut on these thugs and rid our country
of those who have already managed to make their way here."

Now, finally, Congress may act on Rep. Foley's proposal. Lawmakers in both
chambers are working on tough immigration reforms in the wake of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, which revealed how porous are our nation's border controls.
If such a bill passes, indications are that it likely will contain his provision
- cosponsored by Rep. Gary Ackerman, D-N.Y. - called the Anti-Atrocity Alien
Deportation Act

"I think there is going to be a window in the next week or two when this can be
brought up," Rep. Foley said. "Congress is in the mood to revisit immigration
policy."

What troubles Rep. Foley are statistics compiled by Boynton Beach-based
International Education Missions that there may be as many as 1,100 foreign-born
torturers, war criminals or extra-judicial killers legally living in the United
States, including about 150 in Florida.

"Our current laws don't permit us to deport or take to trial someone who
committed atrocities overseas if they were not committed against American
citizens or in areas covered by international tribunals," said Richard Krieger,
president of the mission.

"It's great that we have people like Mark who have taken the interest to bring
this to the attention of the American public and to get it passed," said Mr.
Krieger, a former executive director of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.

A similar bill sponsored by the Senate Judiciary Committee's two senior members
- Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt. - unanimously passed
the Senate 25 months ago, but the measure got bogged down in the House because
of a jurisdictional dispute. Sen. Leahy has reintroduced the bill in this
Congress.

The legislation would do two basic things: It would prohibit foreign torturers
from being admitted to the United States; and it would allow the government to
prosecute and deport torturers already living here.

The question is, who should be in charge of such prosecutions? Rep. Foley thinks
it should be the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, which
was created in 1978 to hunt for Nazis living in America. Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, who chaired the House Judiciary subcommittee last year, wanted the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to be in charge.

"They (OSI) have the experience with these types of people. There's no need to
re-create the wheel, and I'm not sold on the INS because they have not performed
so admirably in the past," Rep. Foley said.

"OSI is the best Nazi war criminal hunting agency in the world," said Mr.
Krieger, whose board of directors boasts two former OSI directors.

Since Rep. Smith no longer is in charge of the subcommittee - although he is
still a member - Rep. Foley hopes his provision may have a better chance of
being added to an overall immigration bill.

Rep. Foley became interested in the issue after reading about Carl Dorelien, a
former Haitian paramilitary leader who was living in Port St. Lucie in 1997 when
he won a $ 3.2 million lottery prize. Dorelien was convicted in a Haitian court
last November and sentenced to life in prison for his role in the massacre of
more than 30 people. He is awaiting deportation proceedings in Miami. Murderers
can be deported under U.S. law; alleged torturers cannot.

Then there's the case of Eriberto Mederos, alleged to have tortured political
prisoners at a psychiatric hospital near Havana. Mr. Mederos, who worked in a
nursing home in Hialeah, is awaiting trial in Miami and possible deportation for
lying about his past.

Rep. Foley has a long list of foreign torturers living the good life in America.
Some came in under special provisions with the blessing of the State Department.

They may not have committed terrorist acts in the United States, but they
terrified their countrymen, many of whom now also reside in America and have to
face them.

Rep. Foley calls such a situation an "outrageous violation of human decency."

It's time for them to go.

Larry Lipman is the Washington bureau chief for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail
address is larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              157 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 4, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

REFORM, NOT REVENGE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 303 words


U.S. immigration policy needed overhauling before Sept. 11, and the urgency to
get it done has intensified since. Real reform becomes more elusive, however, as
Attorney General John Ashcroft concentrates his efforts on exploiting loopholes
in civil liberties rather than closing them in immigration laws.

Mr. Ashcroft wants changes that put immigrant offenders before military
tribunals, suspend attorney-client privileges and allow law enforcement
unprecedented latitude in making cases. The Justice Department seeks to
interview about 5,000 foreigners who have come here since January 2000, a
usual-suspect netting expedition that allows Mr. Ashcroft to round up Muslims
and Arabs essentially for being Muslims and Arabs. The Post reported Sunday on
some of those in South Florida whom the sweep has picked up.

Nearly all the 600 detainees held since Sept. 11 committed immigration
violations that as late as Sept. 10 the government considered too minor to
pursue. That mind-set changed with revelations that the 19 hijackers entered the
country legally, most on student visas, and that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service does next to nothing to see that immigrants adhere to the
terms of admittance.

The INS needs a quantum upgrade of its technology and databases just to monitor
the 550,000 foreign students in the country, let alone control the borders. A
six-month visa should be just that; immigrants who overstay should expect
consequences. Universities don't want to seem like police, but they and local
law enforcement must help in the reporting.

But true reformers know that legitimate foreign students contribute about $11
billion annually to the U.S. economy and enrich the nation's academic
environment. The government shouldn't use 19 exceptions to justify oppressive
rules.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              158 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 11, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

STILL SECRET; STILL WRONG

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 393 words


The temptation is to say, "It's OK, because they're not Americans," but what is
happening to Mazen Al-Najjar and many other immigrant detainees is most
un-American and highlights the principle that if it can happen to one, it can
happen to anyone.

As The Post detailed Sunday, Dr. Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida
professor, was detained by federal authorities for three years, on evidence that
neither he nor his lawyers have seen, until a judge ordered his release last
December. By rearresting him last month, the Justice Department has put itself
on trial, and could be exonerated only by proving that Dr. Al-Najjar really is a
threat to national security.

The Miami immigration judge who ordered Dr. Al-Najjar's release was the same one
who had trusted the feds' allegations of secret evidence in 1997 and signed the
order to jail him without bail. When the judge finally heard the feds' evidence
three years later, he wrote in a 56-page opinion that Dr. Al-Najjar had no ties
to terrorists. The three-judge panel to which INS appealed said the same.
Then-Attorney General Janet Reno, to whom the INS next appealed, reviewed the
open-court and classified evidence and also ordered Dr. Al-Najjar's release.

The feds deserve the benefit of the doubt when it comes to protecting
confidential sources. There are ways other than total secrecy to deal with those
issues. Further, this detention includes vindictive touches. His wife hasn't
even been able to retrieve the keys to the family minivan.

Dr. Al-Najjar, a Palestinian, faces deportation for a visa violation. No country
will take him because of the alleged, though unproven, ties to terrorism. Unless
the government can show he is a danger, he should be released while the case
proceeds.

Many Americans would disagree with Dr. Al-Najjar's actions. He reportedly
organized rallies at which people such as his brother-in-law called for "death
to Israel." But as America painfully learned during the McCarthy era, to be
accused or say unpopular things is not enough. Such arbitrary police action has
many Americans worried about unprecedented new federal anti-terrorism measures.
Without showing that Dr. Al-Najjar participated in terrorist activities, the
feds come off as punishing him for defending himself against their plan to
continue using secret evidence.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              159 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 20, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

FORMER PROFESSOR'S DETENTION CHALLENGED

BYLINE: Paul Lomartire, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 329 words


Lawyers for former University of South Florida professor Mazen Al-Najjar filed a
challenge to his imprisonment in Miami federal court on Wednesday.

The American Civil Liberties Union in Miami filed a habeas corpus petition
arguing that Al-Najjar's detention is unconstitutional because it is based on
secret-evidence allegations dismissed last year by a federal immigration judge.

A hearing date for Al-Najjar, 44, is expected within a month.

After spending three years and seven months in jail, Al-Najjar was released last
December after a ruling by federal Judge R. Kevin McHugh, who heard and
dismissed the government's secret evidence.

Immigration Naturalization Service agents then picked up Al-Najjar in November
for a long expired student visa. The Department of Justice issued a statement
calling the former USF professor a threat to national security.

He's being held for deportation at the maximum-security U.S. Penitentiary in
Coleman, about 70 miles north of Tampa. But no country will accept the stateless
Palestinian because the U.S. government, citing secret evidence, has accused him
of having ties to terrorist groups.

Also Wednesday, the University of South Florida Board of Trustees voted to fire
Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, computer science professor Sami Al-Arian.

USF President Judy Genshaft sent a termination letter later Wednesday to
Al-Arian, 43, who has been the subject of death threats because of his support
for anti-Israeli interests and long-running suspicion he helped support
terrorists.

Al-Arian, who is paid more than $67,000 a year, has been on paid leave since
September after the university decided it was too dangerous for him to be on
campus. Since then, his employment has prompted some alumni and university
donors to withdraw their financial support, Genshaft said.

Al-Arian has 10 days to respond to the board's action.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

paul_lomartire@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Mazen Al-Najjar (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              160 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      January 7, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

PANEL UNDER FIRE FOR STOPPED DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An obscure immigration appeals board at the U.S. Justice Department is drawing
fire from critics and applause from immigration supporters for recent decisions
that allowed some immigrants who commit crimes to avert deportation.

More than five years after Congress stiffened laws requiring foreigners to be
deported if they are convicted of serious crimes, the 19-member Board of
Immigration Appeals has mapped out exceptions.

The quasi-independent board reviews decisions by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service as well as federal immigration courts.

In a recent controversial case, the board stopped the deportation of a Haitian
nanny convicted in the beating death of the 18-month-old child in her care.

Melanie Jeanbeaucejour, 44, was sentenced to a maximum of six years for
second-degree manslaughter in New York in 1995 and released two years later. The
INS moved to deport her and won backing from a federal immigration judge.

The appeals board blocked her removal in March 2001 in a decision first reported
in August in The Washington Times and which remains under seal. The newspaper
reported that a three-member panel from the board blocked the deportation
because it would cause her family and her American-born children "severe
emotional hardship."

"The board has determined that the crime that she was convicted of does not
automatically require her deportation," Rick Kenney, spokesman for the appeals
board, said last week.

"The board says this crime does not meet the conditions established in law as a
crime of violence," added Kenney, an official with the executive office of
immigration review, which includes both the immigration courts and the appeals
board.

In December, Attorney General John Ashcroft agreed to consider an INS request to
overrule the appeals board on Jeanbeaucejour. A justice department spokesman
said Friday that the matter was still under review.

The immigration appeals board, most of whose members were appointed during the
tenure of former Attorney General Janet Reno, has changed its makeup in the past
decade. Whereas most of the members once came from law enforcement and
prosecution backgrounds, Reno added several board members from immigrant
advocacy groups and universities.

The Clinton-era change was welcomed by pro-immigrant groups, even as critics
complained the board now leans too heavily toward aliens.

Most of the board's estimated 30,000 annual rulings are not widely circulated,
although a few are published as precedents for the immigration courts.

Among the recently published decisions, a Korean national who had been convicted
of theft as an 18-year-old was spared deportation after a judge trimmed his
decade-old one-year suspended sentence from a year to 360 days. At less than a
year, the suspended sentence was no longer grounds for automatic deportation.

That solution was accepted by the immigration appeals board last September and
posted on the Justice Department's Internet site.

"It's a great pro-alien, pro-immigrant decision because there's been a lot of
setbacks for criminal aliens," said John T. Riely, the lawyer for Min Song, who
had been given a suspended sentence for stealing fire extinguishers in a
Halloween prank.

"What the board is saying is, 'Go back to the trial court and fix it if
possible,' " Riely said. He said he has received dozens of calls from lawyers
and clients who want to pursue the same strategy.

In a related case issued in March, the appeals board halted the deportation of a
Belize citizen who had been convicted and sentenced to jail for burglary and
unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor in 1998.

The board said Robin Juraine Crammond no longer fell under the mandated removal
provisions of the law because, more than a year after his conviction, the state
of California reduced his sex crime from a felony to a misdemeanor.

Such rulings have raised questions among critics who have long charged that the
U.S. government allowed weak enforcement of immigration laws.

juliam@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

Board of Immigration Appeals:

www.usdoj.gov/eoir/efoia/bia/

biaindx.htm

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              161 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 2, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

ADMINISTRATION PLAN MAY CLEAR BACKLOG OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a change that could speed up deportations, the Bush administration is
proposing to streamline the way thousands of immigration cases are handled.

The plan, which is part of Attorney General John Ashcroft's wartime
reorganization of the Justice Department, is aimed at reducing the large backlog
of cases at the Board of Immigration Appeals, which reviews deportation cases.

"The BIA has been unable to efficiently adjudicate immigration appeals for more
than a decade," says a summary of the new regulations, which call for reducing
the 23-seat board to 11 members. The rules aim to speed up action by requiring
that most appeals - which are now reviewed by panels of three - be decided by a
single member.

The appeals board currently has more than 55,000 cases on its docket, including
34,000 that have been pending for more than a year and 10,000 for more than
three years, according to Justice Department statistics.

Immigration lawyers raised immediate objections to the expedited procedures and
announced plans to oppose the new rules at a hearing next Wednesday before a
House immigration subcommittee.

Advocates of tougher immigration enforcement applauded the administration plan
as a way to reduce delays in removing illegal aliens.

The immigration appeals board has the job of reviewing decisions made by 52
immigration courts on whether aliens - most of them undocumented - should be
deported or allowed to stay. The quasi-judicial system comes under the U.S.
Executive Office of Immigration Review, a branch of the Justice Department.

With the appeals backlog at 40,000 cases in 1995, the Clinton administration
enlarged the five-member appeals board. The membership has gone as high as 21,
although only 19 seats are currently filled.

Despite the added appeals board members, the backlog is higher now than seven
years ago. The Ashcroft plan adopts a system of streamlined, single-judge
rulings that have been recently tested by the appeals board.

Moreover, the new rules give appeals board members 90 days to rule on a case.
For more complex cases, three-member panels would be used and have 180 days to
complete their rulings. Cases involving detained aliens would have top priority.

And the appeals board, which currently has the power to do its own fact-finding,
would have to rely on the findings of the immigration judge in all but a few
cases.

The restructuring plan, which is expected to save $2 million, was greeted with
doubts Friday from Senate Judiciary Chairman Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. He called
the changes "drastic" and added that "we need time to carefully review them."

Kennedy said he was "seriously concerned about the attempt to further reduce an
immigrant's right to seek review of his or her case before an appellate judge."

Judy Golub, a spokesperson for the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said her group opposes the plan, including the rule that would require the
appeals board to accept the immigration judges' findings of facts. The appeals
should include factors and laws that change in the course of a case, she said.

Moreover, she objected to reducing the appeals board and setting "tight"
deadlines.

The restructuring plan, which could go into effect as early as next month, was
praised by Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a group that favors more restrictions on immigration.

"The streamlining of the board is probably a good idea," he said. "With 19
members, it becomes a debating society."

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              162 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 7, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RAILROAD

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 338 words


The Board of Immigration Appeals used to be an arcane body of federal
adjudicators largely ignored even within the Justice Department that oversees
it. Sept. 11 changed that, however, as the national debate on immigration reform
sharpened over which foreigners should be able to stay here and which should go.

The 23-member board hears appeals of immigration decisions by judges and
officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and it has final say on
most deportations. Reformers on both sides of the immigration issue find some
agreement when it comes to the board: It has a backlog of 55,000 cases, and
that's unacceptable. Exactly how to fix the problem remains predictably a matter
of dispute.

The Bush administration wants to streamline the hearings by reducing the number
of judges. Attorney General John Ashcroft proposes cutting the board to 11
members and using single judges to hear most cases instead of three-judge
panels. Besides speeding up the process, Mr. Ashcroft says, the plan would save
$2 million a year. The administration can make the changes without legislation.

Immigrant advocates fear the proposal is a move toward assembly-line justice
aimed at disposing of the cases through hasty, perfunctory rulings. The board
already represents the full spectrum of viewpoints on asylum and deportation
issues. A one-judge system would make the luck of the draw decisive in itself.
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., says the administration should not rush to
implement such "drastic changes" without congressional review.

Civil rights and immigrant groups have reason to fear that streamlining really
is a euphemism for railroading. Under the current system, the board handles more
than 20,000 appeals a year, with most rulings going in the government's favor.
The backlog is unacceptable, but changes that compromise case-by-case review
would be worse. To be fair, the government must hear each immigrant as an
individual, and Mr. Ashcroft's plan would undermine that principle.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              163 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 9, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWYERS PROTEST NEW DRIVER LICENSE RULES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 372 words


New restrictions on immigrants seeking driver licenses are causing an uproar
over state employees taking on the role of immigration inspectors.

"This requires the motor vehicle department staff to become like an immigration
checkpoint and they are not qualified to do that," said Angelina Castro, an
attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Fort Pierce.

Some license examiners are seizing immigration documents they consider invalid,
Castro said. Officials at the Department of Highways and Motor Vehicles said
Friday that they recover expired driver licenses but said they are not aware
immigration papers are being seized.

"It's not our job to confiscate documents," said department spokesman Robert
Sanchez.

Under a new procedure, license examiners copy documents presented by immigrants
and give them a 30-day temporary license until the documents can be verified, he
said.

Florida has required immigrants to show documents for the past three years.
Before December, examiners simply noted the type of document presented without
judging its authenticity.

Since December, to comply with an executive order from Gov. Jeb Bush, driver
license officers have been required to judge the validity of the documents.

Some of the license examiners have had just four hours' training in immigration
documents but the training is continuing, officials said.

Immigration attorneys are trying to amend the process before the legislature
adopts the executive order as state law. Senate hearings on the bill sponsored
by Sen. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Spring Hill, begin Thursday.

In the past, people on a six-month visitor visa were routinely issued a license
valid for six years. Now, licenses are good only until the visa's expiration
date. Special licenses may be issued to frequent visitors, such as business
travelers, Sanchez said.

The motor vehicle department also set up special offices for noncitizens in
Miami-Dade, Broward, Hillsborough, Pinellas and Orange counties. Noncitizens in
other counties can apply for or renew their licenses at regular offices.

An unintended result of the crackdown could be that immigrants will shun driver
license offices, Castro said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              164 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               February 9, 2002 Saturday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWYERS PROTEST NEW DRIVER LICENSE RULES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 523 words


New restrictions on immigrants seeking driver licenses are causing an uproar
over state employees taking on the role of immigration inspectors.

"This requires the motor vehicle department staff to become like an immigration
checkpoint and they are not qualified to do that," said Angelina Castro, an
attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Fort Pierce.

Some license examiners are seizing immigration documents they consider invalid,
Castro said. Officials at the Department of Highways and Motor Vehicles said
Friday that they recover expired driver licenses but said they are not aware
immigration papers are being seized.

"It's not our job to confiscate documents," said department spokesman Robert
Sanchez.

Under a new procedure, license examiners copy documents presented by immigrants
and give them a 30-day temporary license until the documents can be verified, he
said.

Florida has required immigrants to show documents for the past three years.
Before December, examiners simply noted the type of document presented without
judging its authenticity.

Since December, to comply with an executive order from Gov. Jeb Bush, driver
license officers have been required to judge the validity of the documents.

Some of the license examiners have had just four hours' training in immigration
documents but the training is continuing, officials said.

Immigration attorneys are trying to amend the process before the legislature
adopts the executive order as state law. Senate hearings on the bill sponsored
by Sen. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Spring Hill, begin Thursday.

In the past, people on a six-month visitor visa were routinely issued a license
valid for six years. Now, licenses are good only until the visa's expiration
date. Special licenses may be issued to frequent visitors, such as business
travelers, Sanchez said.

The motor vehicle department also set up special offices for noncitizens in
Miami-Dade, Broward, Hillsborough, Pinellas and Orange counties. Noncitizens in
other counties can apply for or renew their licenses at regular offices.

An unintended result of the crackdown could be that immigrants will shun driver
license offices, Castro said.

"People are fearful that we'll have more unlicensed and uninsured drivers on the
road," she said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

What it takes to get a license

Noncitizens seeking a Florida driver license or Florida ID card must present
original or certified documents showing that they are in the United States
legally. Among documents accepted are:

- Immigrant registration receipt card (green card) issued to permanent
residents.

- Employment authorization card (work permit).

- Proof of nonimmigrant classification, not expired.

- Cuban Refugees must present Cuban documents.

- All records submitted will be checked against Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service databases.

- Non-U.S. citizens will be issued a 30-day permit with no photo.

- Canadians do not need immigration documents, but must show a Canadian
passport, Canadian driver license or birth certificate.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              165 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 16, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

REPORT SLAMS ANTI-FRAUD EFFORTS AT INS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Systematic failure to detect fraud in the U.S. immigration process is a growing
security problem that makes the country vulnerable to criminal aliens and
terrorists, a new government study says.

In an unusually toughly worded report released Friday, the U.S. General
Accounting Office said that anti-fraud efforts at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service are "fragmented and unfocused" and that enforcement of
immigration laws remains a low priority.

The INS processes millions of applications a year from foreigners seeking work
authorization, residency permits, naturalization and other immigration benefits.
The General Accounting Office, which is the investigative arm of Congress,
concluded that a "significant" number of applicants use phony identity documents
and that some are concealing criminal backgrounds.

Field workers at the INS said fraud was "rampant," and agency officials at the
agency's Miami office "stated that fraud is out of control," the report said.
The study concluded that enforcement is hampered because the INS does not know
the extent of the fraud and because its far-flung offices have little
coordination.

Moreover, the report found that the agency had only 40 jobs for detecting fraud
in 4 million applications for immigrant benefits in the year 2000.

In a written response to the GAO report, INS Associate Commissioner Michael A.
Pearson suggested that INS field staff may have exaggerated the problem.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              166 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 25, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECURITY FRAUD AT INS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 402 words


Congressional investigators studied the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and found evidence of benefit fraud. That they expected. What surprised them was
how little the INS has been doing to stop it.

The General Accounting Office report released this month suggests that federal
immigration officials have all but abandoned efforts to combat fraud. The INS
makes priorities of removing criminal aliens, illegal immigrants and smugglers
but ignores perpetrators of fraud who walk right into the agency's offices. "The
INS does not know the extent of the immigration benefit fraud problem," the GAO
claimed. Investigators said the problem is "rampant," with the rate of false
applications in some offices running as high as 30 percent.

The report cited two broad categories of fraud: benefit applications - which
includes marriage, work authorization and temporary visas; and documents that
include falsified birth certificates, passports and identification cards. The
INS spends less than 1 percent of its budget trying to detect cheaters, but
money is not the overriding issue. The auditors found that the agency just isn't
trying, citing one case in particular. Hundreds of foreigners used the same
address and claimed to be living in the same one-bedroom apartment. The GAO
believes a computer analysis could have uncovered that scam, and auditors also
cited about 25,000 cases of potential marriage fraud awaiting detection in the
INS computers.

The Bush administration's response is to repeat Attorney General John Ashcroft's
plan to separate the INS functions into enforcement and service divisions. But
the GAO believes immigration officials can stop much of the fraud without
bureaucratic machinations. The auditors found the fraudulent cases just by
looking for them. Why can't the INS do the same? The GAO thinks it can by
reorganizing and using technology it has. Rather than complain about all the
money they don't have, immigration officials must do a better job identifying
priorities and fixing the problems that are within reach.

Americans have become too familiar with one type of immigration fraud: obtaining
temporary visas with the intent of staying in the United States indefinitely.
The government believes nearly all the 19 terrorist hijackers did that. Most
troubling about the report on the INS is that they probably would have little
trouble doing it again today.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              167 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       March 8, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

A NEW JOB THAT IS ALIEN TO FLORIDA

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 707 words


From the morning of Sept. 12, it probably was inevitable that Florida would
become the nation's immigration laboratory.

At least 15 of the 19 hijackers passed through the state, and that knowledge is
provoking haphazard experiments in restricting the flow of foreigners.

The first came in December, when by executive order Gov. Bush, in effect,
changed the job descriptions of employees at the Department of Highways and
Motor Vehicles. Gov. Bush ordered examiners to check the documents of immigrants
and verify their status before issuing driver licenses.

State workers thus became de facto federal immigration inspectors. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service has trouble enough training its own
people to understand the hodgepodge of laws, rules, regulations and policy. Now,
DMV employees are invited to the party, too.

A second experiment became public this week when Florida Domestic Security
officials announced plans for a new partnership with federal authorities. The
U.S. government appears willing to transfer to the state the power to arrest on
civil charges illegal immigrants who are deemed national security threats.

Under the plan, police officers, sheriff's deputies and state agents would
perform enforcement roles that traditionally have belonged to the INS. The
powers are unprecedented, and other states likely will monitor Florida's
research and development.

Both changes attempt to relieve the overworked and understaffed INS. Both
changes, however, carry ominous consequences: invitations for racial and ethnic
profiling go out to police, who with state workers must interpret complex
immigration laws without the training to do so.

Profiling and legal ignorance can be a devastating double whammy, as immigrant
advocates such as Greg Schell, a Florida Legal Services attorney, know
firsthand.

Some years ago, Mr. Schell got a call from the family of a Haitian refugee whom
the Collier County Sheriff's Office had detained. The man was on his way home
from his job as a dishwasher, riding in a car that was pulled over because of a
broken taillight.

The deputy asked the man for his immigration documents. He showed the officer an
INS document that stated he was an applicant for asylum and was legally
permitted to reside and work in the United States. "The arresting officer didn't
recognize the type of document my client possessed," says Mr. Schell. "After
all, it didn't look like a 'green card.' "

Deputies arrested the man and jailed him. A day or two later, he appeared before
a county judge, a former FBI agent, who concurred with the deputy that the man's
documents were not green. Therefore, he must have been illegal.

The INS could have cleared up the man's status in short order but was hamstrung
by a two-month backlog of cases. Mr. Schell got the call from the family after
the man had been imprisoned for three weeks, and the lawyer filed a habeas
corpus action to free him.

The dishwasher, however, lost his job, his apartment and a month of his life
because of a broken taillight, a deputy with a profile in his mind, a judge with
no understanding of immigration law and an INS with too much work to do.

Immigrant advocates fear that a new era of abuse is beginning as the INS loses
power when it should be getting the resources to do its job better. "I think
this is further evidence of collateral damage that we've seen since 9/11 in
terms of immigrants' rights," says Cheryl Little of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center in Miami. "Once (police and state employees) have this green
light, what's to stop them from stopping somebody because they don't like the
color of their skin?"

The problems already encountered with the new DMV rules should have been fair
warning against further clumsy experiments and hasty changes. Sister Catherine
Cassidy, an attorney with the advocacy center in Fort Pierce, recently received
a call from a frustrated client who tried to renew a driver license at a DMV
office in St. Lucie County. The woman offered her U.S. passport as proof of
citizenship.

The examiner told her to produce immigration documents.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              168 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 15, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

VISAS FOR TWO TERRORISTS?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 174 words


Six months after Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi flew planes into the World
Trade Center towers, the Immigration and Naturalization Service mailed visas to
their old flight school in Florida. First, get the jokes out of the way:

The INS never should have hired immigration officials trained in Argentina after
World War II.

Workers who approved the visas won't be employee of the month, but they might
get an Atta boy.

Give them points for improving efficiency. It took six months to OK the visas,
but Mr. bin Laden got his green card in just a few hours.

After the jokes, consider serious points. The INS has obsolete equipment. The
agency answers to Attorney General John Ashcroft, who spends more time
announcing vague threats than dealing with specific deficiencies. A private
contractor prepared the visas. Is that still appropriate? Homeland Security
Director Tom Ridge, charged with coordinating preparedness, refuses to testify
before Congress. Compared to those problems, the INS failure is, indeed, just a
joke.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              169 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 18, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

HELP FOX, HELP THE U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 418 words


Friday in Monterrey, Mexico, President Bush will attend a United
Nations-sponsored conference on financing international development. More
important for Americans than the multinational talks is the one-on-one meeting
Mr. Bush has scheduled with Mexican President Vicente Fox.

The two leaders will try to advance agreement on immigration issues. Both are
under growing pressure to bring about change - and also not to. President Fox's
political opponents charge that he has talked about much with the United States
but delivered little. President Bush faces criticism from advocates for
restricted immigration who believe he is too lenient on undocumented immigrants,
most of them from Mexico. He brings embarrassment, too. Last week, Attorney
General John Ashcroft had to explain how the Immigration and Naturalization
Service issued visa extensions to Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi six months
after they piloted planes into the World Trade Center.

The immigration debate in the U.S. Senate may upstage the presidents' meeting.
The House last week combined two stalled bills - a border-control measure that
the administration favors, and a residency extension plan backed by Democrats -
and approved the combination. Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., has pledged to block
the combined bill from quick passage, saying senators must debate and possibly
amend it.

There is wide support in Congress for boosting the pay of border patrol agents
and giving the INS money to hire 400 new investigators and inspectors. Much
opposition, however, awaits the Democratic-sponsored provision that gives
hundreds of thousands of immigrants with expired visas - most of them Mexicans -
the chance to apply for residency without leaving the United States.
Conservative Republicans think it comes too close to the dreaded A-word:
amnesty. President Bush thinks it will help solve labor shortages for business
and win favor within the fast-growing ranks of Hispanic voters. He is right on
both points.

U.S.-Mexico cooperation has resulted in the recent arrests of prominent Mexican
drug smugglers, and that momentum can help persuade lawmakers to adopt
immigration reforms. President Fox has downplayed this week's meeting, saying,
"We should not expect spectacular results." But he needs something substantial
to shore up his standing, and President Bush needs to shift priorities to
keeping terrorists out of the country, not Mexican laborers. The Senate can help
both presidents by passing the combined bill.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              170 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       April 8, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS READY TO BEGIN WORK ON OVERHAUL OF INS

BYLINE: Julie Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Amid heightened border security concerns, Congress is set this week to take its
first step toward overhauling the much-criticized U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The House Judiciary Committee will hear testimony Tuesday and plans to draft
legislation Wednesday to split the beleaguered immigration service into two
separate agencies.

The measure is the first to advance among several plans now looming over the
INS, a $6.2 billion, 37,000-member agency that reformers have been trying to
reorganize for three decades.

Although past attempts have failed, this year could be different.

The restructuring proposals come on the heels of acute public embarrassment for
the immigration service, which mailed student visa certificates in March for two
of the Sept. 11 terrorists, six months after they executed the suicide
hijackings.

As that debacle was unfolding, the INS reported last month that one of its
seaport inspectors at Norfolk, Va., ignored security procedures and allowed four
Pakistani crewmen to come ashore, where they then vanished.

And in yet another disclosure pointing to long-standing breaches in immigration
law enforcement, the INS admitted to losing track of 314,000 immigrants who have
been ordered out of the country in recent years, but who never showed up for
their deportations.

Reformers and critics are debating whether such problems would be resolved by
rearranging the immigration bureaucracy. Some long-time observers are saying
that what's needed is the political will to enforce immigration laws.

Even so, the public attention on the INS has fueled demands for a shake-up in
the agency.

To that end, conservative House Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
and liberal Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., have joined in a rare alliance.

Both use the term "dysfunctional" to describe the immigration agency, whose
conflicting mission requires it to keep out unwanted aliens even as it provides
services for legitimate foreign visitors and immigrants.

The House plan, named for the late Texas Democratic congresswoman and
immigration expert Barbara Jordan, would split the INS into two separate
agencies: one for law enforcement and another for immigration services.

Both operations would remain in the Department of Justice, but the new agencies
would come under more direct supervision by the attorney general.

At least three other proposals are also emerging:

- The Bush administration is considering consolidating all border security
functions into a single homeland defense agency, which has not been defined.

That could mean joining the Border Patrol, which is part of the INS, with the
Treasury Department's Customs Service and other parts of the government, such as
the Coast Guard, which is now housed in the Transportation Department.

- INS Commissioner James Ziglar is working on what might be called an "overhaul
lite" plan, which would keep his agency intact. Ziglar, who is scheduled to
defend his approach to lawmakers Tuesday, would divide his agency into two
different wings: one for enforcement work and the other for service functions,
such as naturalization and granting "green cards" for permanent residence.

- Senate Judiciary Chairman Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., is planning to introduce
a bipartisan Senate reform plan this week similar to the Ziglar approach.

Some immigration experts, who agree that structural changes are needed for the
bureaucracy-bound agency, argue that it won't be enough.

"Redrawing the lines isn't going to make that much difference," said Jan Ting,
who served as assistant commissioner at the INS in the first Bush presidency.

"The core problem with INS is what I call mission overload," he said.

He and others blame Congress for sending mixed signals to the INS by passing
amnesty measures that have legalized millions of immigrants and refugees and
added to the processing backlog at the INS.

In fact, the House recently passed a provision to allow as many as 300,000
aliens residents - many of them visa spouses of legal residents - apply for
permanent status through the INS. Without that exception, they would have to
return to their home countries and apply for visas at a U.S. consulate.

That move shows the lack of clarity on immigration policy that continues even
after Sept. 11, said Ting, who now teaches at Temple University Law School.

"Congress, and to some extent the whole nation, has an ambiguous feeling about
immigration enforcement," Ting said. "If you ask, 'Should we allow everybody in
the world to come into the United States?' they say 'No.' "

But when it comes to an individual case, such as a family down the street, Ting
said the public and Congress often change their tune. "The INS through the years
has been bitten many times by trying to enforce the laws."

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              171 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 18, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

INS MOVES TO FIX ITS OWN PROBLEMS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, staying one step ahead of
congressional efforts to dismantle it, began Wednesday to reform itself.

Attorney General John Ashcroft and INS Commissioner James Ziglar announced a
series of moves, including placing the Border Patrol under a single command.

The officials said the INS central office will also assume direct supervision of
the eight INS detention centers for aliens, starting with the center at El Paso,
Texas.

Although the INS has been revamped many times, Ashcroft said these changes and
others to be announced soon would be "unprecedented" because they would reach
the field offices nationwide.

"We all recognize the urgent need to restructure the INS as quickly as
efficiently as possible," said Ashcroft of the agency, which has come under fire
after a series of mishaps following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The House is set to vote next week on a plan to cut the INS into two agencies,
one for immigration law enforcement and another for services to immigrants.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said the INS internal efforts would not be enough.
"I continue to believe that legislation is needed to secure a strong foundation
for the agency to operate successfully in the future," he said.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              172 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 20, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

INS REFORM, NOT RHETORIC

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 421 words


Americans are demanding an overhaul of immigration p01olicy, and they will get
it. New legislation, new rules and new working arrangements between agencies
ensure that the nation will treat foreigners differently.

Less certain is whether all changes will qualify as reforms. The September
terrorist attacks raised frustration over the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to intolerable levels. It took decades for the INS to earn its
reputation as one of the most dysfunctional agencies in government, but
lawmakers intend to transform it by the end of the year. Only a few Republicans
and Democrats mentioned border security during their last campaigns. All of them
talk about it now. Immigration change is certain. Immigration reform is anything
but.

Even ideas with wide, bipartisan support face political manipulation. The Senate
this week unanimously passed a popular border security bill virtually devoid of
controversial provisions. Yet Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., held the bill hostage
for months because he believed House supporters tried to preclude senators from
debating it. What border issues concern West Virginia?

The bill would make changes that are largely procedural, not philosophical. It
would give border authorities more tools to do what they're doing better. It
would add 1,000 new INS inspectors and support staff to U.S. borders, require
companies to disclose passenger and crew information on all arriving flights and
vessels, lift the 45-minute time limit on inspections of international flights,
require computerized travel documents and deny visas for foreigners from
terrorist nations. The three-year package would cost about $3.2 billion.

No consensus exists, however, on how to handle the structural overhaul of the
INS. The Bush administration wants to divide it into two divisions, one for
enforcement and another for processing. The fear is that this would create two
dysfunctional agencies where there was only one. INS Commissioner James Ziglar
is responding to critics by proposing a rash of new rules and low-end fussing.
He wants to shorten visas for foreign tourists from six months to 30 days.
Economic leaders say the restrictions will hurt Florida. Do we really want to
tell the elderly snowbird couple from Finland that they can use the home they
own in Lake Worth for only one month?

These are the ideas Sen. Byrd should hold hostage. True INS reformers understand
the need for careful change to make certain that bad U.S. policies don't become
worse.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              173 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

               April 28, 2002 Sunday sunday FINAL EDITION edition

INS CHIEF ZIGLAR CAUGHT IN PINCH pinch

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer writer

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 16A 16A

LENGTH: 1194 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


When James W. Ziglar agreed to become commissioner of the beleaguered U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, he was looking for a challenge.

The former investment banker, although lacking a background in immigration,
planned to use his managerial skills to clear out the agency's storied backlogs
and improve its efficiency.

Eight months later, those problems seem almost quaint. In the aftermath of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the agency he heads is now seen as a national
security problem because of its failure to secure the borders and enforce
immigration laws.  laws.

Although no one is blaming the new commissioner for long-standing problems, the
agency's blunders have kept him in the hot seat.

He was summoned for a grilling by a House subcommittee after the INS mailed
student visa certificates for two of the terrorists six months after they died
in the Sept. 11 hijacking attacks. He faced more questions when an INS inspector
in Norfolk, Va., allowed four Pakistani crewmen to come ashore. All but one have
disappeared. He has grown impatient when he is repeatedly asked why his agency
can't locate 314,000 aliens who have been ordered deported but have never shown
up for removal.

And this past week, the heat was turned up yet another notch for the genial
Mississippi native, who until recently served as sergeant-at-arms in the Senate.

INS split would eliminate job
 Congress, which has done little more than gripe about the INS for years, took
the first step toward dismantling the immigration service. Ziglar returned from
an international meeting in Australia to find the House of Representatives
passing a bill Thursday that would split the INS into two agencies and do away
with the commissioner post.

What's more, he found that the Bush administration had abruptly joined forces
with the House, undercutting his plan to streamline the INS from the inside.

Attorney General John Ashcroft, going to Capitol Hill to endorse the House
reorganization plan Thursday, said he would be "delighted" if Ziglar would
continue to "lead our effort" but offered no details about how this might
happen.

Ziglar has made no public remarks since. Even so, he has often said that he
would happily return to Wall Street, where he had served as managing partner for
two investment firms.

"I'm not somebody who lusts after political jobs," he said earlier this month.
"If it makes sense to have a different configuration of leadership, that's fine
with me."

Even so, his rocky start at the INS has provided a window on changing attitudes
toward both the INS and immigration policies.

Seemingly good fit

A year ago, Ziglar's management background seemed a good fit for fulfilling
President Bush's campaign promise to make the INS more responsive to immigrant
applicants, many of whom wait years for the agency to process their citizenship
or change their residency status.

As a pro-immigration and self-described libertarian, Ziglar also supports Bush's
plans, now stalled, to open the door to more workers from Mexico and legalize
millions of those who are already here illegally.

And it could not have hurt that the 56-year-old Ziglar also brought with him the
goodwill of the Senate, where his even-handedness as sergeant-at-arms during the
tense period of the Clinton impeachment won him friends in both parties. In
fact, Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., joked that "there was an effort to deny
confirmation" for Ziglar's INS job because senators didn't want to see him
leave.

Enforcement views questioned

However, the Ziglar appointment also raised doubts in some quarters from the
outset because of his lack of experience in the immigration field. Critics also
complain that he has a less-than-zealous outlook on enforcing immigration laws.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, recalled Ziglar's first visit with House members.
"What was noticeable to me was that he spoke for an hour and never mentioned the
world enforcement" until he was asked questions, Smith said. "That was a little
worrisome."

After Sept. 11, Ziglar's views toward enforcing immigration laws drew closer
attention.

For example, he said repeatedly that his agency's 2,000 agents assigned to the
entire interior of the country must focus on alien smugglers, terrorists and
other serious criminals. A far lower priority are the rest of the some 8 million
illegal aliens, he says.

"How do you restrict the number of illegal residents?" he said earlier this
month.

Answering his own question, he said that without a fence running the full 6,000
miles of the border, "you're not ever going to stop people from coming in."

"We clearly need to do a better job of enforcing our borders . . . particularly
trying to keep people out that are dangerous," he continued. "But it's not
realistic to suggest that you're going to be able to keep illegal aliens out of
the country."

Such statements are praised as realistic by his backers but as defeatist by
those who favor tougher law enforcement.

"Ziglar has failed to do the one thing that is the most important and the
cheapest thing he could do," said Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a
nonpartisan group that favors reducing the flow of immigrants. "That is, to
publicly state that he believes in the immigration laws and he will enforce
them."

'A practical approach'

On the other hand, Ziglar's approach has strong backing from pro-immigration
groups. "He has brought a practical approach to the job," said Randy Johnson, a
lobbyist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce business group. "He recognized that .
. . illegal workers are going to come across the border as long as there are
jobs in this country. And we need to find a better way to legalize the flow."

Such conflicting views over immigration suggest that Ziglar will remain in the
hot seat for the foreseeable future.

He is scheduled to go before the Senate Judiciary Committee this week and give
his views as the senators prepare their version of the INS reorganization.

In the meantime, Ziglar might have cause to remember the response of his old
high schoolmate, Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., when Ziglar told him he was about to
accept the INS job.

"Are you crazy?" Lott said he told him, adding that the agency was "an
unmanageable entity" of 35,000 people and a stack of laws that it doesn't have
the means to enforce.

Ziglar brushed off that warning.

Said Lott, "I think he got the challenge he was looking for."

- juliam@coxnews.com

James W. Ziglar

Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service since Aug. 6, 2001.

Hometown: Born in 1945 in Pascagoula, Miss., where as a high school student he
sang in a church choir with friend Trent Lott.

Education: Bachelor's and law degrees from George Washington University.

Previous political posts: Sergeant-at-arms and doorkeeper for the U.S. Senate;
assistant secretary of the Interior; aide to then-senator James O. Eastland,
R-Miss.; law clerk to Justice Harry A. Blackmun.

Business career: Managing director of the PaineWebber Operating Committee;
managing director of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.

Family: Wife, Linda, and three sons.  sons.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.  text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), RICK McKAY/Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service
, With a business background, James Ziglar was hired to untangle the,
Immigration and Naturalization Service bureaucracy and backlogs.
 %

                Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              174 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 2, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

REAL INS FIX ISN'T QUICK

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 412 words


The 405-9 vote in the U.S. House last week to break up the Immigration and
Naturalization Service suggests a powerful and clear consensus over the nation's
approach to border control after Sept. 11.

But the vote is a protest, not a reform. It reflects what lawmakers do not want
- the chronically dysfunctional INS - but says next to nothing about what they
want or the changes in policy the nation must make. The congressional plan to
break the INS into two bureaus, one for enforcement and one for services,
provides only a rough blueprint for the extensive, complicated rebuilding ahead.

The Senate is considering its own version of the breakup bill. The House and
Senate measures are similar except at the top. The House wants an associate
attorney general to oversee the enforcement and services divisions, each run by
a director; the Senate prefers to have one director oversee two assistant
directors. The immediate peril is that a new bureaucratic morass will replace
the old one and that the split will mean more federal agencies that don't talk
to each other. Congress must ensure that both divisions share computer systems
and access to information. Another critical decision is how agencies that guard
borders - the Coast Guard, Customs, the Agriculture Department, the Border
Patrol - fit into the new scheme.

Redrawing lines of command is easy compared with providing the new agency with a
clear mandate and adequate resources to do the job right, or at least better.
For decades, lawmakers have made immigration policy fit their political agendas.
The result is a labyrinth of statutory contradictions and mind-numbing
procedures even for people trying to comply: fill out a form to receive a form
to request information on filling out another form. Administrative changes since
Sept. 11 - such as new limits on visas and restrictions on driver's licenses -
have made life harder for foreign visitors and tourists who are welcome. True
reform requires treating immigrants fairly and satisfying security needs.

No one mourns the fall of the INS. Even advocates at the polar extremes of
immigration issues agree on that. The revelation that two of the hijackers
received visa extensions six months after the attack made the agency's fate
politically fashionable. Many members of Congress are ready to take bows for the
demolition, but not many are prepared to step forward and take on the
rebuilding. The end of the INS is barely a beginning.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              175 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 19, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

UNJUSTIFIED DETENTION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 419 words


In a nightmare reminiscent of a Turkish prison movie, Mazen Najjar has spent
more than four years in U.S. custody based on allegations he and his attorneys
never have been allowed to see, much less rebut. His continued detention by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service debases federal law and the Constitution,
and disgraces America's claim to the best system of justice in the world.

Dr. Najjar first was jailed in Bradenton in 1997 on government claims that the
Islamic think tank he worked with at the University of South Florida was tied to
terrorists. He vehemently denies that, and he never has been charged with any
crime despite so-called secret evidence. That he overstayed his student visa
after he arrived in 1981 is the worst that's known about the Palestinian who
taught Arabic at USF and earned two advanced degrees in engineering. His three
daughters are native-born American citizens.

Dr. Najjar's release in December 2000 came only after federal judges called the
terrorist label groundless and ruled his continued detention unconstitutional.
After her own review, then-Attorney General Janet Reno also deemed his release
appropriate. Immigration authorities snatched Dr. Najjar again in November,
however, partly because in the post-Sept. 11 climate, they could. Yet the
government hasn't cried terrorism this time; the feds say they want to deport
him, but being stateless, no country will take him.

For the past six months, Dr. Najjar has been in solitary confinement despite the
government's inability to show or even claim any longer that he poses a threat
to national security. The INS had six months to deport or release him under a
precedent established by the Supreme Court. The six months ended last week, and
Dr. Najjar deserves the expedited release that his attorneys are seeking.

The feds have a responsibility to detain legitimate suspects for a reasonable
time in order to deport them. After that, further detention becomes
unjustifiably punitive. Dr. Najjar is hardly a flight risk; he would prefer to
return to his wife and watch his children grow up. That makes his detention all
the more unconscionable.

Moreover, the Supreme Court has found in some cases that certain people may not
be deportable as a practical matter. No legitimate purpose is being served by
the continued detention of Dr. Najjar, except that while he probably wouldn't
like his American nightmare featured in one of their promotional videos, the
proven terrorists probably would.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              176 of 431 DOCUMENTS

             $%Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida) florida) florida)

             May 23, 2002 Thursday thursday thursday thursday FINAL
                        EDITION edition edition edition

INS TO RUN BACKGROUND CHECKS ON ALL APPLICANTS applicants applicants applicants

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer writer writer writer

SECTION: A SECTION, section, section, section, Pg. 3A 3A 3A 3A

LENGTH: 503 words words words words


The nation's immigration service, stung by failures in identifying terrorists
entering the country, is taking a harder look at immigrants filing applications
and turning in those wanted on arrest warrants.

The more aggressive background checks strengthen homeland security, but could
create even more backlogs in immigration offices, private immigration attorneys
say.

Security checks on anyone mailing applications or visiting immigration offices
are now the first order of business, said a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokeswoman.  spokeswoman.  spokeswoman.  spokeswoman.

"As of May 13, we were mandated to run through different databases every person
who comes into our contact," said Patricia Mancha, spokeswoman for the Miami
district INS office. Mancha said the district has shifted staff to make sure the
security checks do not create delays.

The new rules also require INS offices to notify police if the background check
shows there is an outstanding arrest warrant.

Arrests have been made in South Florida, but the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service won't say how many.

"It's a security-related matter," Mancha said.

Police agencies in the West Palm Beach area said they had no information on
arrests of fugitives at the INS appointments office near Palm Beach
International Airport.

Mancha said criminal background checks began in January on foreigners visiting
the United States and was expanded this month to all immigrants, including those
seeking green cards and citizenship.

Private immigration attorneys say they agree that INS should screen applicants.

"Let's face it. If a criminal is stupid enough to submit an application, then
they should suffer the consequences," said Kathleen Walker, an El Paso attorney
and member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association board. "The problem
is conducting the checks in an efficient manner. Some offices are turning away
applicants because they are saturated."

Thousands of immigration applications in New York City and elsewhere are being
stalled because immigration workers don't know how to use the database, she
said.

The names of immigrants are entered into the Interagency Border Inspection
System, or IBIS, a U.S. Customs-managed database that pools information from
federal and state agencies. IBIS has been primarily a tool to screen foreigners
at airports and border crossings. INS officials have told Congress that the
databases now contain more information about known or suspected terrorists in
the United States.

The screenings could also snarl some U.S. citizens applying for immigration
benefits for their spouses or children, said Jeffrey Devore, an immigration
attorney in West Palm Beach. Citizens often fill out paperwork in order to
sponsor an immigrant.

The new INS policy doesn't call for background checks on U.S. citizens, but that
could change, Mancha said.

Mancha said she did not know if an immigrant identified as a fugitive would be
called to an INS office to be arrested.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com com com com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2002 2002 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english english english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.  editions.  editions.

          Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.  inc.  inc.


                              177 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 8, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

BE FAIR TO HAITIANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 406 words


The Bush administration secretly changed its detention policy on Haitian
refugees in December, after the Coast Guard rescued 167 of them packed onto a
50-foot sailboat off Biscayne National Park.

Haitian migrants seeking political asylum since have been held at the Krome
Detention Center in southwest Miami-Dade County rather than being released until
the government hears their cases. The number of Haitian detainees has grown to
about 240, though the Immigration and Naturalization Service refuses to give the
exact number. In court records, government lawyers say the new policy is meant
to discourage a mass migration and casualties at sea. The records became public
after the Florida Immigration Advocacy Center sued the INS in March, claiming
the policy is racist and discriminatory.

Cheryl Little, the center's executive director, accuses the government of
bringing in immigration judges to dispatch Haitians' appeals with brief and
inadequate preliminary hearings without attorneys present. "We have been
presented obstacle after obstacle in trying to gain access to these Haitians,"
she says. "We frequently wait hours just to meet with them. Once we meet with
them, very often we are not provided with confidential attorney space. We've
been told they can't find some of our clients."

Ms. Little says Krome's population numbers about 800 when its capacity should be
525, and Haitians who need medical attention aren't getting it. The United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has criticized the policy. So have the
NAACP, immigration-rights advocates, human rights groups and members of
Congress, including Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla. In May, Sen. Nelson asked INS
Commissioner James Ziglar to inspect conditions at Krome and two other detention
sites for himself. Mr. Ziglar promised he would visit this month. Sen. Nelson
believes the government should apply the same rules to Haitian refugees that it
uses for those from other countries. "I remain concerned," he says, "about what
appears to be a double standard in the way the INS treats Haitians."

In denying Haitians the due process extended to other migrant groups, the
government violates intrinsically American principles. The need to tighten
borders in response to Sept. 11 does not empower the INS to make ethnic
judgments or put select groups in limbo. Mr. Ziglar should hurry to Florida and
end the unfair treatment of the Haitian detainees.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              178 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 27, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

PLAN OPENS FEDERAL MONEY FOR IMMIGRANT CARE

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


States should be able to use federal money to help pay health care benefits to
immigrant pregnant women and children, a Senate panel voted Wednesday.

An amendment by Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., would reverse a six-year policy of
denying federal assistance to immigrant pregnant woman and children until they
have been in the United States at least five years.

The Senate Finance Committee adopted the amendment on a 12-9 vote that fell
largely along party lines, as it continued work on a reauthorization of the
welfare reform law, which expires this year.

About 16,000 immigrant children in Florida receive health care under the
state-sponsored Florida Kid Care program.

The legislature capped spending on that program two years ago at $13.5 million,
creating a backlog of children waiting to get into it.

Of the 23,000 children on the waiting list, about 22,000 of them are legal
immigrants, said Jill Greenberg, Graham's spokeswoman.

Under Graham's amendment, Florida would be able to use its state money to match
federal money provided under the Children's Health Insurance and Medicaid
programs.

Since the 1996 welfare law cut off federal support for legal immigrants, about
100,000 pregnant women and children have entered Florida, Greenberg said.

Nationwide, about 176,000 people would be covered by the amendment, of which
144,000 are legal immigrant children.

The plan would cost the government about $2.2 billion over 10 years.

During debate, Graham argued that "by compassionate standards as well as
hard-nosed standards . . . it is in our best national interest to provide health
care to these groups."

Children born in the United States to immigrant women are immediately considered
American citizens and could qualify for welfare benefits, Graham noted. He
argued that providing those future citizens with prenatal care would reduce the
cost of their health care after they are born.

Several Republican senators argued the amendment would let the sponsors of
immigrants avoid the financial responsibility they pledged before the immigrants
were allowed into the country.

"We're letting the sponsors off the hook," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. "This
is basically a bailout of the sponsors, who in many cases benefit from them
(immigrants) by hiring them as employees."

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              179 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 31, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

NO HAVEN FOR TORTURERS; ACT AGAINST GENERALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 188 words


The statement from the Immigration and Naturalization Service's press officer,
Russ Bergeron, in the article dealing with the landmark verdict against two
Salvadoran generals for torture was disturbing ("Generals ordered to pay $54.6
million for torture," July 24). Mr. Bergeron was paraphrased as saying that
judgments in such a civil case would have no immediate bearing on the generals'
immigration status.

Immigration law excludes persons who have been or are engaged in "genocide, or
otherwise ordered, incited, assisted or otherwise participated in the killing of
any person because of race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin or political
opinion."

Having knowledge of the verdict, the INS must act either to rescind the legal
permanent residency of the generals, or, if they already are United States
citizens, the INS must move to denaturalize and deport them based on fraud.

The U.S. should not be a safe haven for human rights violators, and our
immigration laws reflect this sentiment. The INS has to act.

AILEEN JOSEPHS

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Aileen Josephs is an immigration attorney.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              180 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 17, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF TO RESIGN FOLLOWING CRITICISM

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


James W. Ziglar, who took the helm of the embattled U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service just before the Sept. 11 terror attacks, announced Friday
he will be leaving his post by year's end.

The INS commissioner, in a message to INS employees, said he plans to leave as
the agency is taken over by the proposed new Homeland Security Department.

His announcement comes as the latest sign of a changing approach to immigration
issues in the Bush administration. A defender of immigration and an advocate of
amnesty for illegal aliens, Ziglar had been appointed by President Bush largely
to reform its management and reduce years-long backlogs for immigration
applications.

Ziglar, in his remarks to employees Friday, said that the terror attacks and the
proposed new Homeland Security Department "have fundamentally changed" the
objective for the INS. He endorsed the new security agency, adding that "border
security will now receive the priority status it deserves."

A former sergeant-at-arms of the Senate and Wall Street investment banker,
Ziglar has had a sometimes rocky tenure during his year at the INS. He came
under tough questioning after his agency mailed out student visa certifications
to two of the Sept. 11 hijackers six months after they died in the attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

His decision to leave the INS brought a mixed response.

Angela Kelley, assistant director for the National Immigration Forum, a private
advocacy group for immigrants, called it a "huge blow both to the Bush
administration and to immigrants."

She said that Ziglar brought "much needed management experience and a natural
instinct that we're a nation of immigrants, and that's a positive thing."

The administration issued brief statements about one of the first major
departures.

"The president appreciates his service during this very challenging time and
wishes him the best," said White House spokeswoman Anne Womack.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); James W. Ziglar (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              181 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 21, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION MODERATE BECOMES A 9/11 CASUALTY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 395 words


Neither James Ziglar, nor anyone else in Washington, knew what was in store when
he took over as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Before President Bush appointed him, Mr. Ziglar served two years as the Senate's
sergeant-at-arms. Before that, he was a Wall Street investment banker.
Immigration advocates and critics assailed his lack of relevant experience to
run the INS, probably the government's most troubled agency and certainly one
subject to political whim. "He doesn't know the difference between a MasterCard
and a visa," one reformer said. Mr. Ziglar had been in charge barely two months
when the events of Sept. 11 changed the job dramatically.

After the attacks, the Bush administration and Congress reorganized and
redefined the INS as an enforcement agency with a critical role in homeland
security. The political case against Mr. Ziglar intensified when Congress
learned that all 19 hijackers entered the country legally on visas and that the
INS had approved visa extensions for two of them after their deaths.

Mr. Ziglar inherited problems that were decades in the making and will take
years to solve, yet he got only weeks to fix them. He announced his resignation
last week, and his departure removes a moderate voice from the immigration
debate. Through all the post-9/11 turbulence and posturing, Mr. Ziglar
steadfastly held that the nation should rally against terrorists, not
immigrants. He believed that legal routes should remain open for foreigners
coming here with the right intentions and that the INS should safeguard civil
liberties as it heightens enforcement.

Advocates for tighter immigration policy called him naive and ambivalent about
border control. Pro-immigration activists said he incurred the anger of Attorney
General John Ashcroft and an administration that wants to scapegoat immigrants.
All parties can agree that his tenure probably was doomed, if unfairly, as of
the morning of Sept. 12.

It will be a setback if Mr. Ashcroft picks a new director who reflects his
distorted perspective, which routinely fails to distinguish between immigrants
and terrorists. While the INS needs an overhaul and improved enforcement,
government must not develop a short and selective memory. Mr. Ziglar is a loss
because he understood the historic contributions immigration has made to the
nation.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              182 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 5, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS LEADERS OPPOSE CUT IN TOURIST VISA TERM

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group of national business leaders met with immigration officials here
Wednesday urging them to reject a proposal to limit the length of tourist visas.

Anthony "Tony" Macaluso, president of Castles By The Sea II in Manalapan and a
director of both the Florida and National Associations of Realtors, was among
those meeting with three top Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
led by Stuart Anderson, executive associate commissioner for policy and
planning.

As part of the Bush administration's anti-terrorism efforts, the INS last spring
proposed changing the default length of tourist visas from six months to 30
days. Visitors would be required to demonstrate a need for a longer visa, which
could be issued for a "fair and reasonable" period to complete the purpose of
the visit, according to INS officials.

The proposal would have a devastating effect on a wide range of tourism-related
businesses, including the South Florida's tourism-sensitive real estate market,
Macaluso said.

Macaluso said the proposal already has scared away foreign investors looking at
purchasing vacation or investment homes in the United States. Two prospective $2
million purchases in the Naples area recently fell through because of it, he
said.

"They didn't feel they would be able to use their property," he said. "Just the
proposal has had a significant economic impact on the real estate market and
certainly implementation would be more disastrous."

INS officials did not respond to the objections but said they would take them
into consideration. The controversial regulation already has generated more than
11,000 comments. No date has been set for a final decision on the proposal.

During the 90-minute meeting - which included representatives of other business
groups, such as the Travel Industry Association of America and U.S. Chamber of
Commerce - Macaluso handed immigration officials a letter from Sen. Bob Graham,
D-Fla., urging rejection of the proposal.

"Our goal should be to screen out persons who will do our country harm, and not
hinder the visits of part-time residents of our state who are welcomed by the
communities in which they live," Graham said in the letter addressed to INS
Commissioner James Ziglar.

"We should establish a process to screen out dangerous individuals and deny them
all access to our country, and let bona fide tourists and winter residents to
visit for up to six months," Graham said.

According to Graham's office, out of 537,481 real estate notices sent by Palm
Beach County, 7,354 went to foreign addresses; Martin County sent 767 notices to
foreign owners out of 83,555 notices. Similar information for St. Lucie County
was not available. Most of the foreign owners are believed to be either
part-time residents or investors who visit their property regularly.

Gov. Jeb Bush, a Republican, also has objected to the proposal, warning that it
would hurt Florida's tourism-dependent economy.

The visa proposal was issued in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Fifteen of the 19 hijackers entered the U.S. on the type of visitor visas that
would be limited by the proposed regulation.

larryl@coxnews.com

PalmBeachPost.com

Immigration and Naturalization Service

www.ins.gov

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Tony Macaluso (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              183 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 28, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

INS TO MERGE TWO CENTERS AT ONE LOCATION IN WEST PALM

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


More than 3,500 more people a month soon will be trekking downtown, filling
parking lots and buying pizzas.

Federal immigration offices are moving to 326 Fern St. to consolidate existing
service centers in Riviera Beach and near Palm Beach International Airport.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service says the move will mean faster
appointments and better service since the functions of two separate offices will
be merged at the location.

"I'm thrilled," said immigration attorney Rita Altman, whose law office is
within walking distance of the new location. "It's going to be better for the
immigrants."

"We are going to bring in additional staff to get any backlog eliminated," said
John Tuszl, officer in charge of the INS office. He said it now takes 20 days or
more for an appointment, but that should be pared to three to four days once the
backlog is reduced.

Since walk-ins are not accepted, all visitors must make appointments for
information and interviews in advance by telephone.

Tuszl said the Riviera Beach office sees about 2,500 people a month while the
INS office on Bristol Drive near the airport has about 1,000 visitors a month.

The INS West Palm Beach office serves eight counties and employs about 30
examiners, information officers and support staff.

For more than a year, the agency has sought to move out of its Riviera Beach
office at 301 Broadway because of employee complaints that bad air was making
them sick. The building is owned by the Port of Palm Beach.

A couple of employees sought job transfers because of illnesses they blamed on
the building's air, Tuszl said.

The Bristol Drive office was not working out because of limited parking, he
said.

On Fern Street, the INS will occupy about a third of the ground floor and all of
the second floor, for a total of 13,000 square feet. The six-story, red-brick
building was once occupied by BellSouth.

Immigration attorney Scott Devore said the INS plans a "one-stop" service at the
new location that will allow immigrants to receive ID cards authorizing them to
work in the United States at the same time they file applications for the cards.
Usually it takes a week to 10 days for the cards to be issued, he said.

"The only thing lacking at the new location is free parking," Devore said. "The
city of West Palm Beach will make money from the parking meters and garages."

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              184 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 2, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

TREATMENT OF HAITIANS HAS KENNEDY SPEECHLESS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Ted Kennedy was at a loss for words.

That rarely happens to the 40-year senior senator from Massachusetts, whose
booming voice regularly shakes the Senate's fixtures.

But Tuesday, Kennedy chaired an immigration subcommittee hearing into the Bush
administration's policy of indefinitely jailing Haitians - men, women and
children - who seek shelter and asylum in the United States after fleeing Haiti
for their lives.

Marie Jocelyn Ocean had just testified about the two months she spent locked in
a windowless motel room with three other women and a 7-year-old girl. She told
about being transferred to the Turner Guilford Knight Detention Center - a
maximum security Miami-Dade County jail - where she and other Haitian women were
strip searched; where their nights were broken by guards banging on the doors
and shining flashlights in their eyes.

Ocean testified that she fled Haiti after her father and brother were killed by
gangs with ties to the government. She was one of 167 Haitians detained when a
boatload of refugees went aground near Miami last December. Since then, 16
refugees, including Ocean, have been granted asylum. The rest are still being
held.

Speaking through an interpreter, Ocean said she realized she had broken the law
by entering the United States illegally, but she said she never expected the
kind of treatment she received while in detention.

Kennedy, grasping for words, described Ocean's story as one of "pain, anguish
and misery."

"No one should have to endure that kind of treatment here in the United States,"
Kennedy said.

Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., who joined Kennedy in the hearing, sharply
criticized the administration for detaining Haitian asylum seekers while
refugees from other countries are allowed quick entry into the United States.

"I think it's very clear what the situation is," Brownback said. "It's time that
we move past this mistreatment of one group."

Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., an outspoken critic of the administration's policy,
sat in on the Senate panel and called separation of Haitian women from their
children "disgraceful."

Conyers said attorneys representing Haitians are treated with disrespect by U.S.
immigration courts, prompting Kennedy to suggest an investigation of their
treatment by the American Bar Association.

Cheryl Little, executive director for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center,
told the panel that the administration's policy of detaining Haitian asylum
seekers in order to discourage further migration from Haiti violates both
American and international law.

In 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that asylum cases must be judged on an
individual bases "without regard to race or national origin," Little said.

Little rejected claims by INS officials that allowing Haitian refugees to
receive asylum might spark an exodus from that politically troubled island
similar to the 1980 boatlift from Mariel, Cuba, or the 1994 wave of Haitian boat
people.

"It appears that the INS policy is not about saving Haitian lives, but rather
about keeping Haitians out," Little said.

larryl@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              185 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 8, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

STUDY: DEPORTATION LAW IGNORED

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Jails and prisons release many foreign-born inmates back into U.S. communities
despite laws requiring their deportation, federal investigators disclosed in a
report Monday.

Once free, these criminals are often arrested for committing new crimes,
according to the findings of the Justice Department's inspector general.

The report faulted the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for failing
to track foreign-born inmates and noted that the INS does not even know how many
are being held nationwide.

The problem is most acute at county jails.

"As a result, many foreign-born inmates who are deportable aliens pass through
county facilities virtually undetected," the report said.

The report found that even as the nation's overall prison population grew by 1.1
percent from 2000 to 2001, the number of criminal noncitizens deported declined
slightly.

INS spokesman William Strassberger said, "We agree with the recommendations of
the report and have already started taking the appropriate steps."

He said that the drop in deportations is a reflection of INS priorities as the
agency has focused on terrorism since last year's Sept. 11 attacks.

Even so, many of the problems found by the inspector general have been cited in
previous federal reports on INS handling of foreign inmates.

Under a federal law passed in 1996, noncitizens who are convicted of an
aggravated felony or any drug crime must be deported after they have served
their sentences.

The inspector general's report, which focused on California and Florida, looked
at noncitizen inmates who were released in 1999 but not deported:

* One person, convicted of sexual battery in Fresno County, Calif., was freed
and later charged with lewd and lascivious acts with a minor.

* In Miami-Dade County, a noncitizen who served time for battery was let out and
rearrested for aggravated battery.

* In three cases in Broward County, one person was released after serving time
for cocaine distribution, another for battery and a third for fraud and larceny.
Each of the three was charged later with the same crime.

The report credited the INS for improved tracking of foreigners in state prisons
in Florida. But it said that the effort at county facilities in both Florida and
California was "minimal at best."

The inspector general said that Florida would need 168 officials to keep proper
track of criminal noncitizens but the probe found that the INS has only 25
people assigned to that job now.

Although no accurate count exists for noncitizens in county facilities
nationwide, the INS has reported to Congress that as of December 2000, there
were as many as 94,000 foreign-born persons in state prisons and 35,000 in
federal prisons. As many as 103,000 of these inmates were said to be deportable
upon release.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              186 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 11, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

NEXT TIME, BRING YOUR FASTBALL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 770 words


Two immigrants came to the United States seeking political asylum recently. Here
are their stories.

Jose Contreras crossed through the San Ysidro Port of Entry last week between
Tijuana, Mexico, and San Diego. He was held at an Immigration and Naturalization
Service facility, where he was well-fed, well-advised and well-treated. Mr.
Contreras has a lawyer, Jaime Torres of Miami, and great dreams.

"His plans are to hopefully and eventually continue his career here in the
United States playing baseball," Mr. Torres said.

Mr. Contreras, 31, is the star pitcher on the Cuban national team. He had
pitched in the America Series tournament in Monterrey, Mexico, before deciding
to defect. He left a wife and two children, ages 10 and 2, in Cuba. The 6-foot-4
right-hander became a hot property among scouts in 1999 when he shut out the
Baltimore Orioles, with 10 strikeouts, during an exhibition.

Mr. Contreras posted a $2,000 bond Monday and was free to remain in the United
States while the INS reviews his case. Two men who defected with Mr. Contreras -
his pitching coach Miguel Valdez and the man's 19-year-old son - were released,
too.

Their requests for asylum should take a few months and certainly will be
approved. Before the spring, Mr. Contreras will be a millionaire.  "There
already are clubs interested in him," Mr. Torres told The Associated Press. "All
30 of them are welcome to put an offer on the table."

Marie Jocelyn Ocean arrived here in December on a foundering boat the Coast
Guard intercepted off the coast of Miami. She found a different America than Mr.
Contreras.

Ms. Ocean has no 90-mile-an-hour fastball; worse, she came from Haiti. As Mr.
Contreras was escaping across the U.S.-Mexico border last week, Ms. Ocean was in
Washington testifying before a Senate subcommittee on immigration and a House
human rights panel. The lawmakers wanted to know how the INS treated her and the
166 others aboard her 31-foot sailboat.

The government abruptly and secretly changed its policy on Haitian asylum
seekers after Ms. Ocean's arrival. Unlike Cuban pitchers, Haitian boat people
are not released while the INS reviews their cases. Here is what Ms. Ocean told
the senators:

"We did not leave our homes because of hunger or lack of food. We left because
of the political violence in Haiti. So when we first arrived, we thought
Americans would treat us with dignity and would protect us after what we had
suffered. We knew there were laws in this country to protect victims of abuse
and torture. So I was shocked by how they treated us. Instead of finding
freedom, we were thrown in jail. We were treated worse than nothing. We were
treated as criminals.

"At night, when I would try to sleep at the jail, they would flash lights in our
eyes and bang on our doors, and it would startle me terribly. Sometimes, it made
me remember the bad things that happened in Haiti. Many of the officers yelled
at us, and we didn't understand why."

Ms. Ocean told how officers strip-searched her and how she was confined in a
room with four other women and a 7-year-old girl for two months.

"I was suffocating and my heart was beginning to race because we were locked in
that small place for so long," she said. "I was only able to breathe fresh air
for four days - three times when I went to court and once when I went to (the
Krome Avenue detention center near Miami) for visitation."

Yet Ms. Ocean is one of the few lucky ones from her ship. In May, an immigration
judge granted her request for asylum and ended her confinement. She told the
judge this story:

"I was forced to flee Haiti because I was being persecuted by members of
Lavalas, a gang that supported the government. My family was politically active
and spoke out against Lavalas. My father was killed. My brother . . . he was
also killed. My older brother was stabbed by Lavalas and he almost died. They
even hurt our children. My brother's son was beaten. They found my daughter, who
was 9 years old then, and they kicked her in the mouth."

Ms. Ocean thanked the American people for giving her freedom. But she said her
heart breaks for the dozens on her boat still held in Miami jails and for those
sent back to Haiti and the violence they tried to escape.

"I didn't think the United States would treat people differently because of the
place they were born," she said. "I thought everyone was equal here. But we were
not treated like everyone else, even though we are all human and we all have the
same blood."

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              187 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                October 27, 2002 Sunday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

VETERANS AND IMMIGRATION

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 103

LENGTH: 159 words


Veterans Affairs

The 244-bed Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach serves more than a
quarter of a million veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River,
Glades, Okeechobee and Hendry counties. The VA also operates outpatient clinics
in Boca Raton, Delray Beach, Stuart, Fort Pierce, Vero Beach and Okeechobee.
Veterans who need information on services can call (561) 882-8262. The Vet
Center, (561) 585-0441, at 2311 10th Ave. N., Suite 13, in Lake Worth, provides
free counseling for job placement, benefits and post-traumatic stress disorders.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

Enforces laws regulating entry and stay of immigrants. Office at 301 Broadway in
Riviera Beach serves Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River, Okeechobee,
Hendry, Glades and Highland counties. Phone (800) 375-5283 for recorded messages
on immigration regulations. The information is also on the Web site,
www.ins.usdoj.gov.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
HEALTH CAREDISCOVER The Treasure Coast

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              188 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 31, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

A HAITIAN BOAT SLIPS IN, AND QUESTIONS PILE OFF

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 444 words


The rickety freighter that ran aground Tuesday next to the Rickenbacker Causeway
carried a cargo of at least 211 Haitian migrants, and, through the waiting TV
cameras, the craft provided graphic imagery of the chronic inequities and
deficiencies in U.S. immigration policy.

But the chaotic scene exposed deeper concerns. The wooden ship made it to
downtown Miami with little resistance, eluding Coast Guard detection until the
last miles of its eight-day voyage and foiling interdiction attempts just
offshore. The vessel came close to trendy eateries, cruise liners, shopping
centers and densely populated areas. What if among the Haitian asylum-seekers it
had carried terrorists and weapons?

Critics of the government's homeland security plan point to the nation's harbors
as points of acute weakness, and this desperate exodus through Biscayne Bay
underscores the case. Asked how the freighter came so close without being
detected, a Coast Guard spokesman replied that it was typical of vessels that
clog the shipping lanes off Miami, and did not stand out. If national security
guards only against the obvious, Americans are in trouble.

The hypocrisy and unfairness of U.S. immigration policy arrived with the
Haitians. Along the way, the ship picked up two Cuban rafters and one Dominican.
The likelihood is that the Immigration and Naturalization Service will set the
Cubans free and grant them asylum. The government will detain the Haitians and
likely send most of them back to Haiti. Only about 6 percent of Haitian
political asylum claims are granted. The Dominican probably grades out somewhere
between the welcome Cubans - beneficiaries of outdated Cold War lawmaking - and
the unwelcome Haitians. U.S. policy picks winners and losers, with the politics
of the moment focusing only on the short term and the narrow view.

The Bush administration changed its approach to Haitian migrants in December,
ordering all arrivals detained indefinitely until the INS reviewed their claims.
All other foreign nationals are released until their hearing dates. Supposedly,
the idea was to discourage boatloads just like the one that arrived Tuesday. The
problems of the American economy have devastated Haiti, cutting the flow of
immigrant dollars that is the country's main source of income and making squalid
conditions worse.

Skeptics have reason to wonder how U.S. nation-building efforts in Afghanistan -
and perhaps someday in Iraq - can succeed when they have failed for 16 years on
a half-island 700 miles away. The United States cannot admit all Haitians any
more than it can admit all Cubans, but we at least can treat all refugees the
same.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              189 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 5, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICE OPENS NEW PHONE LINES

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Immigration officials Monday promised faster, more efficient service at their
new downtown office for those who have had trouble even reaching someone by
telephone to make an appointment.

There are now 23 telephone lines open for making appointments, compared with one
in the past, said John Tuszl, chief of the West Palm Beach U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service office. To make appointments, call 805-6800.

The improved service was announced as the INS held a ribbon-cutting ceremony for
its new office at 326 Fern St. The agency closed its offices on Broadway in
Riviera Beach and on Bristol Drive near Palm Beach International Airport.

All visits are by appointment, except in emergencies, Tuszl said. The office,
which serves eight counties, sees about 2,000 people a month.

The wait to see an adjudicator or information officer after making an
appointment, now about three weeks, should be reduced to one week by the end of
the year, Tuszl said.

- bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              190 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 19, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

EXPOSE ON IMMIGRANT'S TRIALS REVEAL INS TO BE A DICTATOR

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 198 words


I thank The Post and reporter Louis J. Salome for his excellent March 10 article
"Asylum-seeker from Iraq held in legal limbo." Ever since Congress passed new
immigration laws in 1996, things have gone downhill. Immigration judges have
their hands tied by these laws.

Before '96, if one went before an immigration judge, he or she could hear the
case, weigh all points, consider all the facts and history and then make a
judgment. Since 1996, it essentially is left up to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. If you were to appear before an immigration judge today,
he or she would tell you there is nothing he can do except what the INS says.

In the case of Sarkon El-Kahifi, if there was such a thing as an immigration
judge, the judge would oversee the case and make a decision. That cannot happen
now. The INS is a dictatorship, in the true sense of the word. It can and does
do what it wants. It is run by bureaucrats, with no compassion whatsoever.

It is a sad day in the United States when one can't get his day in court. I
always thought that in America, one was "innocent until proven guilty," not
"guilty until proven innocent."

TIM KELLY

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              191 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 1, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

9,200 MORE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN AREA MAY GET FOOD STAMPS

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN CHAPMAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 304 words


Thousands of local immigrants become eligible for food stamps under a federal
law that takes effect today.

Refugees and those granted political asylum already receive aid; the new law
expands benefits to noncitizens who have been in the country legally for at
least five years.

The law could help 2,334 more people in Palm Beach County and 6,890 in the
four-county region of the Treasure Coast, according to the Florida Department of
Children and Families.

To pay for the expansion, the federal government will send $122.4 million more
to Florida each year. The government spent $904.5 million on Florida food stamps
in 2002.

The new rules, passed by Congress under last year's Farm Bill, restore the
federal assistance for immigrants that was repealed by the 1996 welfare reform
bill. That year, an estimated 935,000 legal immigrants were dropped from the
welfare rolls. About a quarter million were reinstated in 1998, when Congress
voted to soften the cuts.

A recent study by the Center for Immigrant Studies showed that about 6 percent
of immigrant families got food stamps in 2001, just slightly higher than the
percentage of native families.

Though immigrants make up disproportionate numbers of the nation's working poor,
many illegal aliens and recent arrivals are still not eligible to receive aid.

Some groups pushed to extend welfare benefits to more recent arrivals last year.
But President Bush balked at the idea, saying it could encourage illegal
immigration.

Those interested in applying for food stamps can visit any DCF service office.
For a list of offices in Palm Beach County, call (561) 837-5247. The numbers for
offices in the Treasure Coast are (772) 223-2500 in Martin County, (772)
398-2900 in Port St. Lucie, (772) 467-3700 in St. Lucie County.

kathleen_chapman@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              192 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 8, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION BECOMES 'DEATH SENTENCE'

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2129 words


He was pumping gas, getting by and raising a young family in the land of the
free, where he had lived for 11 years - six of them in Boca Raton - when
Pakistani-born Ahfaz Khan was arrested on Jan. 8, 2002, in a post-Sept. 11
government sweep.

Twenty-four days later, Khan was deported to Pakistan.

Fourteen months later, he was dead. Murdered.

The last tragic year of Khan's life began after he was picked up by immigration
officers at his gasoline station in Rock Hill, S.C.

Khan, 35, was turned over to the FBI for questioning before he was locked in the
Mecklenburg County jail because he lacked a valid visa.

Immigration officials later learned that Khan had a deportation order against
him, issued in absentia, that stemmed from an asylum hearing in 1995, which his
lawyer says Khan didn't know about.

About 2 a.m. on Jan. 31, 2002, Khan, who had no criminal record, was shifted
from the Mecklenburg jail to immigration offices in Atlanta.

Within hours - at 5:45 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 1 - U.S. authorities rushed Khan
aboard a Delta Air Lines flight bound for Amsterdam. Khan's lawyer said she had
no warning that Khan would be deported.

From Amsterdam, Khan was flown to Dubai on a KLM jet. In Dubai, he boarded a
Pakistani Airlines plane bound for Lahore, Pakistan, the country from which he
had fled in 1991 to avoid police harassment and possible arrest, and where, his
lawyer told U.S. authorities, Khan's life would be endangered again because he
would be viewed as an American agent.

His wife, Fatima Siddiqui Khan, a naturalized U.S. citizen who had married Khan
on July 12, 1996, in Orlando, when she was 18, did not see her husband again
after his arrest. Neither did the Khans' two U.S.-born children ever see their
father again.

After her husband was deported, Mrs. Khan and her children moved from South
Carolina back to Florida so she could receive the support of her extended
family.

Ahfaz Khan is buried in Pakistan. He was murdered about two months ago in
Karachi, where he was born.

On March 26, 2003, when he was close to receiving the documents necessary to
return to the United States, Khan was shot and killed by two men who drove by on
a motorcycle while he was drinking tea at a cafe with another man, who was
wounded in the attack.

"This murder should not have ever happened," said Hina Askari of Broward County,
Khan's lawyer. "His deportation to Pakistan, like untold hundreds of others, was
executed by the U.S. government with full knowledge of retaliation by extremists
and other radical groups lying in wait."

Khan's deportation was "essentially a death sentence," Askari said.

Feds secretive about number of detainees

Last week, a long-awaited report from the Justice Department's inspector general
concluded that officials with the FBI, particularly in New York City, "made
little attempt to distinguish" between illegal residents who had possible ties
to terrorism and those swept up "coincidentally" in the post-Sept. 11 dragnets.

In the critical report, issued last week, Inspector General Glenn A. Fine said
many of the immigrants were kept too long in harsh prison conditions before they
were released or deported.

Only one of the 762 immigrants picked up in the three months following Sept. 11
was charged with a crime related to terrorism, but most were deported.
Government sweeps continued into this year.

The government has been keeping secret the total number of immigrants detained
since September 2001, whether their detentions were related to immigration
violations or criminal and terrorism investigations. The most frequently cited
figure, which civil rights organizations consider to be incomplete, is 1,182.

The inspector general's report buttresses the widespread criticism leveled for
months by immigration and civil rights lawyers against government tactics.

In a statement issued Tuesday, the Washington-based American Immigration Lawyers
Association said the government report "underscores what immigration advocates
have long charged: that the DOJ (Department of Justice) has confused immigrants
with terrorists, and in the process has ignored our laws, invented its own, and
wasted our precious resources."

In Khan's case, some immigration authorities knew a visa was in the works for
him, but he was deported anyway.

Askari said that immigration officials promised not to deport Khan because of
his pending visa application but that authorities forced a fearful Khan to sign
and fingerprint documents at the airport in Atlanta before he was rushed aboard
the Delta flight.

Earl Kennedy, the immigration officer in Atlanta who handled Khan's case,
refused to comment. "I am not allowed to give any comment on that due to the
Privacy Act," Kennedy said.

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the Department of Homeland
Security, formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said, "Mr. Khan
was illegally present in the United States and was ordered deported by an
immigration judge. The service enforced the order of deportation issued by the
court and Mr. Kahn was removed from the United States on Feb. 1, 2002."

Entangled in bureaucratic red tape

The official explanation is anything but the whole story.

If the immigration service had given Khan's lawyer the documents she needed and
cooperated with her, his lawyer could have filed to reopen the deportation case,
immigration experts said. If Khan had not been deported so suddenly, his lawyer
also could have sought a habeas corpus writ in federal court to keep him in the
country until he received a hearing.

Instead of providing Khan's documents in a reasonable time, Askari said, INS
officer Kennedy told her to file a Freedom of Information Act request, which
takes months to process. Askari said she filed the request; the response came a
year after Khan had been deported.

Khan entered the United States on Jan. 25, 1991, in San Ysidro, Calif.,
according to his application for political asylum, which was filed with the INS
on Aug. 11, 1993. A stamp on that application indicates that an immigration
judge in Los Angeles received it on July 12, 1995.

In his asylum application, Khan said he was harassed by Karachi police, who
ransacked his house. "If I were to return back to my country, I know that I
would continue to be persecuted, harassed, abused and even be put in jail on
fake charges. I would not be safe in the country. The police don't forget very
soon when you report them to the authorities. They want to get even and they
usually do."

As part of a single-page attachment to his asylum petition, Khan added, "I am
petitioning your country for political asylum and to be given the opportunity to
live here as a free person like all the Americans."

When Khan failed to attend a hearing on his original asylum petition scheduled
for July 7, 1995, an immigration judge ordered him deported in absentia on Feb.
8, 1996. Askari said Khan didn't attend the hearing because he didn't know about
it.

Immigration law is flexible concerning in-absentia deportation orders. Khan had
180 days to reopen the deportation case before an immigration judge. If he had
lost that bid, he would have had 30 more days to appeal.

But he didn't act, in part because after he married Fatima Siddiqui in July
1996, Khan dropped his own efforts to obtain a visa, Askari said.

Fatima Khan, a legal resident, said that on July 23, 1997, she filed a petition
to sponsor her husband for a residency visa. On July 2, 1999, four days before
she became a U.S. citizen, Mrs. Khan filed for her husband to get a visa as an
immediate relative - spouse - of a U.S. citizen. This was the visa that was
approved for Khan on July 9, 2002, more than four months after he had been
deported.

The Khans were scheduled to be called for an interview on Fatima Khan's spousal
visa petition for her husband when the Sept. 11 attacks occurred, which
ultimately doomed Khan. When Mrs. Khan finally was interviewed, it was after her
husband was back in Pakistan, and the immigration officials who interviewed her
didn't even know that Khan had been deported, Askari said.

Lived in Boca Raton for six years

One possible reason Khan didn't know about his original asylum hearing is that
he was moving around - as many immigrants do - working as a handyman, salesman
and clerk in gas stations and convenience stores.

From January 1991, when he entered the United States, until May 1992, when he
moved to Boca Raton, Khan lived in Whittier, Calif. He lived in Boca Raton until
August 1995, when he moved to nearby Coconut Creek. He stayed in Coconut Creek
until July 1996, when he married and moved back to a different address in Boca
Raton.

He and his wife lived in Boca Raton until June 1999, when they moved to Rock
Hill, S.C., where Khan was operating a gasoline station and convenience store
when he was arrested.

Fatima Khan's naturalization certificate, issued in Miami Beach on July 6, 1999,
says she applied for citizenship in Palm Beach Gardens.

After Khan was deported, his wife and lawyer wrote a series of letters to U.S.
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., first lady Laura Bush and Attorney General John
Ashcroft, complaining about the way Khan was treated and seeking temporary
protective status for Pakistani immigrants with U.S.-born children to avoid
repeats of the Khan case.

In a notarized letter dated July 17, 2002, addressed "To whom it may concern,"
Khan wrote from Pakistan that he was having difficulty finding work because
everywhere he applied he was told, "I am American agent." Khan's wife, in a
letter addressed to Graham's Tampa office on June 22, 2002, questioned how her
husband could be deported when her visa request on his behalf was pending. She
also appealed for help to reunite the family.

"My husband, who has communicated with our lawyer from Pakistan, is afraid for
his life," Mrs. Khan wrote. "How could my country, supposedly the fairest
country in the world, do such a thing to its own hard-working and law-abiding
citizens?"

A Graham spokesman in Washington said there is no record of any of the senator's
four offices receiving Fatima Khan's letter.

On March 28 of this year, Askari said in a letter to INS official William R.
Yates that Khan's murder was evidence that Pakistani nationals with U.S.-born
children should be granted temporary protective status to prevent their
deportation.

In a letter dated Sept. 11, 2002, a date that wasn't lost on Khan's lawyer
Askari, Yates had told Askari that Pakistanis did not qualify under present
criteria for temporary protective status. Yates was responding to an impassioned
June 24, 2002, letter that Askari wrote to Ashcroft before Khan had been
murdered.

Askari, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Pakistan who knows that country well,
urged the attorney general to grant protective status to Pakistani aliens.
"There exist extraordinary conditions in Pakistan that prevent Pakistani aliens,
as parents of U.S.-born children, from returning to Pakistan in safety."

Nearly three of every four immigrants jailed in the three months after Sept. 11
were from New York or New Jersey, and many of those were Pakistanis, the report
released last week by the Justice Department's inspector general said.

Widow struggling with what to do

Fatima Siddiqui Khan, Ahfaz Khan's widow, lives in a large, comfortable-looking
pink and white house on a small lot in a quiet, well-manicured Orlando
subdivision with her two children, mother, brother, younger sister and another
member of her extended family. She and her children rely on family members in
the United States for support.

Now 25, Mrs. Khan is slight and looks even younger than she is. Her daughter,
Mahwish, 5, and her son, Asad, 2, dash around the house like any American kids
their age.

Still observing a four-month mourning period, she refuses to talk extensively
about Khan's deportation and murder, or about her future. "Not now," she says
softly, with her mother in the background on one occasion and her younger sister
by her side on another.

She says her children are not attending school regularly yet and that she isn't
working now, though she once worked as a department store clerk.

Born in Iraq, Mrs. Khan moved to Pakistan with her family as a young girl and
came to the United States about 11 years ago, when she was 14.

Fatima Khan has written often about the difficulty of raising her children
without their father. She also seems to be struggling to decide what to do with
her own life.

But it seems clear from letters she wrote after her husband was deported that
she, her children and the entire family are rooted in the United States, not in
Pakistan or Iraq.

Palm Beach Post staff researchers contributed to this story.

lou_salome@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W); Family photo, 1. (B&W) With husband Ahfaz and daughter
Mahwish at her side, Fatimah Siddiqui Khan holds newborn son Asad in February
2001. Less than a year later, Ahfaz was arrested and deportation proceedings
begun., 2. (C) Ahfaz Khan, with daughter Mahwish, now 5, and son Asad, now 2,
who never saw him again after his arrest.,

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              193 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 5, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

TRY REALISTIC IMMIGRATION POLICIES TO HELP IN WAR

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 202 words


The Post's June 20 editorial "Payback for Mexico," dealing with U.S.-Mexican
relations, points directly to our present national paradigm with our war on
terrorism.

Immigration laws should prevent terrorists from entering and living in the
United States - yet they also should reflect the immigration needs of our
country. Many service- and labor-intensive industries in Florida, North
Carolina, California, Colorado, Maine, New York and many other states depend on
this hard-working labor force provided in large part by immigrants. From this
vantage point, the U.S.-Mexican guest worker program should be revisited.

Realistic immigration policies and partnerships with our neighbors to the south
- more than walls and barbed wire - will help us in our war on terrorism. Yet
the leaders of Mexico and other Central American countries must make policies so
that their economies do not sustain themselves with the exportation of their
nationals for cheap labor abroad. Unattended poverty issues in Latin America can
give rise to democratically elected radical leadership - which is fertile ground
for terrorism.

AILEEN JOSEPHS

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Aileen Josephs is an immigration attorney.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              194 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               August 14, 2003 Thursday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FAMILY FEARS FOR MAN IF HE'S DEPORTED TO HAITI

BYLINE: By WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Olichard Sauveur's signature on a 5-year-old document may be his death warrant
if immigration officials go ahead with a plan to deport him back to his
homeland, family members said Wednesday.

Sauveur, 36, who was arrested Friday in Fort Pierce and accused of torture in
Haiti in the early '90s, did not commit any crimes and was never a member of the
Haitian military under the regime of Gen. Raul Cedras, his family said.

"My husband did not do anything wrong. He was never in the army," Edith Sauveur
said at her Evergreen Avenue home where her husband was whisked away Friday just
before sunrise by a federal agent.

But Ana Santiago, spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said earlier this week Sauveur committed human rights abuses during
the early 1990s, which included abusing people who were resisting arrest.

Santiago said Olichard Sauveur "withdrew all request for relief" in front of a
immigration judge in March 2000, making the judges' order of deportation final.
She said the exact date he will return to Haiti will not be disclosed.

Edith Sauveur said her husband signed a letter in 1997 asking for asylum in the
United States. He paid a man $200 for the letter, which he could not read
because it was in English.

"I believe in Cedras and participated in many raids against Aristide
supporters," the letter said of the bloody 1991 coup.

Edith Sauveur said her husband signed the letter because he trusted the Port au
Prince man who promised to help him get to the United States. Two months later
Olichard Sauveur had the letter translated and realized it was all untrue.

"My husband simply followed the instructions of this person," she said.

She said her husband, who entered the U.S. in 1997 and migrated to Fort Pierce
to be near family, has tried unsuccessfully ever since to explain the problem to
federal officials.

Olichard and Edith Sauveur met in Fort Pierce and married in December 2001. She
said her husband picked oranges for Treasure Coast Farms in Indian River County
to support them.

Edith Sauveur also said her husband worked in Venezuela as a construction worker
from 1989 to 1997, which would have put him out of the country during the Cedras
regime.

Cedras came to power in 1991 following a coup of then-President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide. Aristide returned to power with the help of U.S. troops in 1994.

Denis Sauveur, Olichard Sauveur's brother, said he was worried about his
brother's safety.

"I don't sleep last night. My brother's life," Denis Sauveur said. "The same day
he comes to the airport (in Haiti). The same day he die."

On Wednesday afternoon, more than a dozen members of the Haitian-American
Citizens Club of Fort Pierce protested outside the Sauveur home carrying "Free
Olichard" signs.

"I don't think what happened was right. Everything I heard about him was good,"
said Merilor Merilan, director of the club. "I know most of the people who come
out here are looking for peace and a better life."

Olichard Sauveur was being held in the Palm Beach County Jail Wednesday night.

Edith Sauveur said at least 15 attorneys have turned down her husband's case
since his arrest was reported, but the family is still holding out hope.

"Why should he be punished because he signed what he thought would set him
free," she said.

will_vash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W); 1. Edith Sauveur (mug) 2. Olichard Sauveur (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              195 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               November 4, 2003 Tuesday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

AIRPORT BUSINESS TARGETED IN STING

BYLINE: By LIBBY WELLS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: STUART


Acting on a tip from Martin County airport officials, federal agents Monday
morning surrounded a business at Witham Field and detained 10 Brazilian men for
questioning about their immigration status.

The sting, which took place just before 10 a.m. at Atlantic Aircraft
Refinishing, involved more than a dozen agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Martin County
Sheriff's Office and the Port St. Lucie Police Department, which supplied a
Portuguese interpreter, according to Susan Palmeri, Witham Field operations
manager.

"We were coordinating it last week," Palmeri said of the operation. "There was
no concern about terrorism whatsoever. There were questions about whether they
were working at the airport with the correct paperwork. The agencies did a
really good job."

Palmeri said she got the tip last week and called the FBI. "I asked them how
soon they could get out here and they said first thing Monday," she said.

Palmeri said the FBI told her late Monday that only two of the men were legal
immigrants with permission to work in the United States. Five were legal
immigrants but did not have work visas, and three of the men will be deported,
she said.

The FBI and INS would not elaborate on the sting.

"We have detained them to determine who they are and their immigration status,"
said Beverly Esselbach, spokeswoman for the FBI office in Miami.

Ed Ratiner, a spokesman for Atlantic Aircraft Refinishing, said the men
presented fake green cards to get work.

"They had menial jobs stripping and sanding planes," he said. "They were good
workers, honest people who tried hard, but to our great surprise and chagrin
they had forged documents."

Ratiner said he was "very surprised" when federal agents showed up at Atlantic
Aircraft, a year-old company next to Galaxy Aviation at the airport.

"We aren't the only employers who've been conned," he said. "All you can do is,
they show you a green card issued by the U.S. government, I guess you have to be
a government expert."

libby_wells@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              196 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 18, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

BROTHER OF WOMAN SHOT IN TIFF FACES DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By WILLIAM COOPER JR. Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The brother of Rosemarie Keller, the woman allegedly slain by her Palm Beach
millionaire husband, faces deportation to Germany, according to his immigration
attorney.

Wolfgang Keil, 31, surrendered to federal immigration officials Tuesday after
being notified that his request to stay in the United States was denied in June.
Keil, who was allegedly shot in the back by Fred Keller on Nov. 10, was released
Tuesday after receiving a notice to appear before a federal immigration judge,
said Scott Devore, Keil's immigration attorney.

"We're preparing to make him legal and fix the situation," Devore said. "I think
the facts in this case warrant a stay to keep Wolfgang here."

Keil, a German citizen, had been awaiting word from federal immigration
officials on his application to extend his stay on a work-related visa but had
never received a decision on his request, Devore said.

However, on Tuesday, federal immigration officials told Keil and his attorney
that the request was denied in June and an appeal was out of the question
because it had not been received within 33 days of the denial, Devore said.

But that won't stop the fight to keep Keil here, he said. Devore plans to ask
the state attorney's office for help.

"He's a material witness in a murder case," Devore said. "Without him, there's a
big problem in prosecuting this case."

Prosecutors wouldn't say how Keil's deportation could impact their case against
Keller. State attorney's office spokesman Mike Edmondson said that, because it's
an ongoing investigation, he couldn't comment.

Keil's immigration status is part of the ongoing legal battle over Keller's $60
million estate. Keller, 69, remains in the county jail, where he is being held
without bail on charges of first-degree murder and attempted murder.

Keller wants Keil, his two brothers and mother out of the Palm Beach mansion
they are staying in. Circuit Judge Kathleen Kroll ruled the family could stay
until January.

In November, Keller allegedly shot his wife, Rosemarie, and Keil, her brother,
during a business meeting. The group met at Keller's Riviera Beach office, where
they were to divide property under the terms of the couple's divorce.

After being shot twice, Keil grabbed the gun and fired a shot that grazed Keller
in the face. Keil then collapsed.

bill_cooper@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Fred Keller (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              197 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 20, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

POST'S FINE SERIES UNDERPLAYED BENEFITS IMMIGRATION PROVIDES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 488 words


I commend The Post's staff for its in-depth coverage of the issues surrounding
immigration and labor in Florida ("Modern-day slavery," Dec. 7-9). Some of the
costs of immigration described in part three of the series ("U.S. 'guest worker'
visa a pitted road not taken") merit further explanation.

First, the 1997 National Academy of Sciences figures cited to suggest that the
costs of immigration (estimated at $15 billion to $20 billion) outweigh the
benefits (estimated at $10 billion) are disputed among academics who study the
issue. In testimony before the Senate immigration subcommittee in 1997,
economist Ronald Lee of the University of California, Berkeley, warned, "These
numbers . . . should not be used for assessing the consequences of immigration
policies." Why? Because Harvard economist George Borjas (cited in the Post story
as an author of the NAS report) ignores some revenue generated by immigrants and
makes questionable assumptions in his analysis.

According to Mr. Borjas, the children of immigrants count only as costs when
they are in the school system, ignoring the taxes they eventually pay. Mr.
Borjas also ignores the economic benefits of the immigrant self-employed in his
analysis, as well as immigrants' entrepreneurship, special skills and the
greater diversity of goods and services they provide. Adjusting for these
miscalculations, other economists (including Mr. Lee) conclude that immigration
is beneficial at both the national level and state level, with the exception of
California.

The figure of $21.5 million a year spent on immigrants in Palm Beach, Martin and
St. Lucie counties also is misleading. A significant portion of this figure is
mandated by federal law and comes with federal financing. For example, agencies
that accept federal money are required to protect the civil rights of
non-English speakers by providing translators. Despite this, any cursory review
of public services would reveal that this law frequently is ignored. To blame
immigrants for the costs of civil rights guarantees generated by our system,
particularly when those guarantees are insufficient, under-financed and/or laxly
enforced, seriously stretches the logic of any cost-benefit analysis.

Finally, the $21.5 million in yearly services to migrants includes costs borne
by primarily private religious and secular organizations that assist South
Florida's immigrants. For readers who are concerned about the costs and benefits
of immigration, a donation of time or money to one of these organizations may be
the best investment for dealing with the huge hidden costs of cheap labor.

TIMOTHY J. STEIGENGA

Jupiter

Editor's note: Dr. Timothy J. Steigenga is a board member of Corn Maya Inc. (a
not-for-profit organization serving the immigrants of South Florida) and an
associate professor of political science at Wilkes Honor College of Florida
Atlantic University.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              198 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 8, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

HELP THE LEGAL REFUGEES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 236 words


The United States has been a haven for persecuted and troubled people from all
over the world. The first Americans were refugees, and the nation takes
seriously the words on the Statue of Liberty.

About 12,000 refugees and asylum-seekers living in the United States and waiting
for citizenship or permanent status will lose federal benefits soon unless the
government grants them an extension. Many are elderly, and some are disabled.
They have come to escape persecution and oppression in their native lands. They
are here legally, and some have been waiting - because of statutory quotas and
processing delays - more than a decade for government immigration officials to
rule on their status.

The Social Security Administration began sending letters last fall, telling the
refugees that their benefits were about to be suspended. A 1996 welfare-reform
law set a seven-year expiration deadline on benefits. Lawmakers wrongly believed
that was time enough to clear the backlog of cases. Immigrants who have no means
of support are losing Medicaid coverage and supplemental income.

President Bush wants to extend the deadline and allow refugees more time to
resolve their status issues. Even advocates for more restrictive U.S.
immigration policy support helping this group of legal, needy immigrants. Doing
so is in keeping with America's national ideals and long tradition as a
humanitarian safe harbor.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              199 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  May 7, 2004 Friday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

YES, REFORM INTELLIGENCE; TIGHTEN IMMIGRATION NET

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 161 words


President Bush was quoted recently as saying that now may be the time to revamp
and reform the CIA, FBI and other intelligence agencies - let us hope so.
Immigration officials could have prevented the Sept. 11 terrorists from entering
the country, the federal commission investigating the attacks has found.

This is contrary to government statements contending that officials had no
reason to suspect the hijackers, most of whom were legally present in the
country. But the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States
has found that the government missed opportunities to stop 13 of the hijackers
from entering the country. The Sept. 11 commission's report concludes that
immigration agents missed altered passports, none of the hijackers filled out
their visa forms correctly and several lied on their forms.

Congress only pretends to want enforcement of immigration law, and the INS
pretends to enforce it.

TOM TOMLINSON

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              200 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 11, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

CONSUL RILED THAT WORKERS SERVED PAPERS AT CRASH

BYLINE: By CONNIE PILOTO and WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 397 words


The Guatemalan consul and an attorney for the Mexican Consulate in Miami were
outraged Thursday that immigration agents served seven workers with deportation
notices at the site of a fatal accident in St. Lucie County this week.

"It's completely inappropriate to do that at the scene of an accident where two
of their friends were killed," said Guatemalan Consul Cristy Andrino. "They
should concentrate on finding terrorists, not immigrants who are here to work
and harvest their land."

The Guatemalan workers were given notices to appear before an immigration judge
in Miami after being interviewed when the minivan they were riding in overturned
Tuesday night on Interstate 95. The men were heading from West Palm Beach to New
Jersey, where they had planned to find work picking blueberries.

Nina Pruneda, spokeswoman for the Miami office of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said immigration agents were just doing their job.

"After interviewing the individuals, they were found to be in violation,"
Pruneda said. "We're tasked with enforcing the law. We are supposed to take
action, and that's what we did."

John DeLeon, a Miami-based attorney who consults with the Mexican Consulate,
said immigration agents' working with the Florida Highway Patrol is dangerous.

"It could lead to people running away from the scene of accidents and not
getting the medical attention they need," DeLeon said. "It could also lead to
witnesses of accidents not coming forward because the next thing they know,
they'll be scheduled for immigration hearings."

Driver Aron Santizo Velazquez, 23, and passenger Ermogeles Cruz, 42, were killed
at the scene. Both died from blunt trauma to the head, according to autopsies.

Nelson Cruz, 23, remained in serious condition Thursday at St. Lucie Medical
Center. Oscar Ramirez, 22, was flown by helicopter to Holmes Regional Medical
Center in Melbourne in critical condition, but his name did not show up Thursday
in hospital records, a hospital official said.

The other passengers were: Saul Gutierez, Serepio Perez, Ricsrso Ramirez, Sergio
Ramirez, Miguel Perez, Santiago Cruz and Juan Gonzales. All the men in the van
were living in West Palm Beach, except Velazquez, who recently moved from West
Palm Beach to New Jersey.

Staff writer John Lantigua contributed to this story.

connie_piloto@pbpost.com

will_vash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              201 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 25, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

PARENTS, SISTERS REMAIN IN U.S. LEGALLY TEEN LEAVES FAMILY FOR DENMARK AMID
IMMIGRATION SNARL

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 668 words


Helene Jensen and her mother sobbed as they held each other one last time at
Palm Beach International Airport.

"I'll be back. Don't worry," the 16-year-old Dwyer High School student whispered
in her mother's ear. "I love you, too."

She stepped through a metal detector, turned and, her eyes glistening, covered
her mouth with one hand and waved goodbye with the other. Then she was gone.

The Danish-born teen flew Thursday morning to Newark, N.J. By midnight, she was
scheduled to be on her way across the Atlantic Ocean to Copenhagen with two
months' worth of experimental medicine to keep her juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
in check. She'll stay with her grandmother.

She promised to return but, in truth, her family is uncertain when that may
happen.

If she had remained with her parents in Palm Beach Gardens, Helene would be an
illegal alien today, facing possible deportation.

Through a quirk in immigration law, her parents are legal, her U.S.-born sister
is legal, a Danish-born sister is legal because she has a work visa, but Helene
is not.

In almost every instance, a child has the same immigration status as her
parents, but not in this case. "It's really not logical. It flies in the face of
public policy," said Maralyn Leaf, a Miami immigration lawyer who represents the
Jensens.

U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, is heading an effort by Florida
congressmen to allow Helene back in the United States after inquiries to
immigration officials did not change her status Thursday. Shaw's office has
contacted State Department officials and the U.S. Embassy in Copenhagen to try
to expedite Jensen's possible return, said Eric Eikenberg, Shaw's chief of
staff.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., will seek a legislative correction to the law, but
that will take time. "We've advised the family and had conversations with other
legislators that clearly there's a problem with the law," said Paul Anderson,
Graham's spokesman.

Helene's father, John Jensen, is a vice president of operations for Teeters
Agency and Stevedoring at the Port of Palm Beach. He and his family have been in
the United States since 1997 under a work visa.

That expired in March. An older American-born daughter is sponsoring John and
his wife, Winnie, in their application to become permanent residents. They
should get their green cards in a few months. In five years, they obtain
citizenship.

But Helene is neither a spouse, parent or child of her sponsoring sister and
would fall into a different category with a probable 6- to 7-year wait to become
legal. She obtained a three-month visa waiver that expired Thursday.

Immigration officials said the Jensens have not officially sought to keep their
daughter here.

"If the family had filed anything on behalf of Helene Jensen with the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, we would have been able to consider the matter.
However, nothing was filed with our department," said Ana Santiago, spokeswoman
for the U.S. Department of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The Jensens' lawyer said they had considered the options, and the most likely to
succeed required her to leave the country.

The Jensens will apply for a student visa when Helene arrives in Denmark. Then
she could finish high school and attend college in the United States, long
enough for her parents to become citizens and sponsor her.

If that fails, the Jensens will seek "humanitarian parole," available only after
other options have been exhausted. Helene's painful disease forced her to use
crutches until she enrolled in a trial program for a new drug being tested by
Abbott Laboratories. The parole would allow her to continue in the drug trial,
only available in the States. But the visa could expire when the drug trial
ends.

"She was trying to be brave," her father said. "She didn't want to go. It's hard
for a 16-year-old. They're all smiles and laughter, but when it comes to the
moment, reality sets in. It's not fun and games anymore."

tim_omeilia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W); GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Helene Jensen,
16, of Palm Beach Gardens waves farewell Thursday at Palm Beach International
Airport. She would have become an illegal alien today.  2. (B&W) Helen Jensen
hugs her mother, Winnie, at Palm Beach International Airport. 'I'll be back.
Don't worry,' the Dwyer High School student said.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              202 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 17, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

GOP BLASTED FOR BLOCKING REFORMS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 388 words


As President Bush vowed Friday to crack down on human trafficking, leaders of
organizations representing enslaved workers blasted Bush and Republican leaders
for "pulling out all the stops" to block a landmark bill that would help
immigrant farm workers establish legal status.

"He (Bush) did nothing to help us get a vote on the historic AgJobs bill,"
Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers, said at a news
conference.

With AgJobs on the Senate floor on July 7, he said, "Republicans could have done
more than just say the right thing. It was the first time they could have
matched their rhetoric with action."

The news conference united leaders of the largest Hispanic and immigrant
organizations in the country. They said the president would not win the votes of
immigrants - especially Latinos - unless AgJobs passes.

"If the Bush campaign wants to win Latino votes, I suggest they save millions in
advertising and focus on fixing our broken immigration laws," said Eliseo
Medina, vice president of the Service Employees International Union, which has
helped register more than 20,000 voters in Florida. "When it comes to the
election, immigrants are going to take to heart the saying (that) actions speak
louder than words."

The advocates were particularly angry about the July 7 failed attempt by Sen.
Larry Craig, R-Idaho, to attach the AgJobs bill onto a legal reform bill that
had bipartisan support.

Craig, one of the sponsors of AgJobs, said the White House had urged him not to
offer AgJobs as an amendment. But Craig, committed to a bill that enjoys support
from the agricultural industry and labor advocates, did so anyway.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., blocked the amendment. A testy
exchange ended with neither bill being passed. The status of AgJobs is
uncertain, but with about a month left in the current session, there is little
hope it will pass.

And six months after Bush's public promise to make immigration laws "more
rational and more humane," no legislation has been proposed by the White House.

"Latino voters are not easily fooled," said Maria Echaveste, lobbyist for the
UFW and the daughter of migrant farm workers. "They know and will be able to
decide which party is actually supportive of their dreams and desires."

christine_stapleton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              203 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 29, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 98 words


WEST PALM BEACH - An Arab-American immigration official who directed his
agency's operations at Broward County's Port Everglades won $305,000 this week
in a federal discrimination lawsuit. In awarding Lebanese-born Simon Abi Nader
the money, jurors decided he was subjected to a hostile work environment because
of his national origin. Nader, of Coral Springs, alleged in his original lawsuit
that a boss at the Immigration and Naturalization Service made comments about
camels and tents and frequently asked Nader whether he was sitting on a prayer
rug during phone conversations.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              204 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 27, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN SURVIVAL COURSE TO HELP MIGRANTS CROSS INTO U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


In a unique effort to save lives, Mexico's new government will train potential
undocumented migrants on how to survive hazardous treks across the U.S.-Mexico
border.

Next month, about 3,000 volunteers in select, rural regions of Mexico will be
trained in survival techniques and given basic medical kits equipped with
snake-bite antidotes, bandages and medicines to treat dehydration, diarrhea and
other ailments. The kits also might include dried meat, other emergency food,
condoms and birth-control pills.

For about a decade, Mexican community health officials have been training local
volunteers and passing out such kits for villagers in isolated areas where
professional medical services are nonexistent or scarce. Now officials will be
training volunteers in areas identified as the source of migrants.

Officials have assembled a few sample "survival kits" - an expanded version of
the basic kit - which in the future could be used by migrants who face risks
crossing the border. The government is considering expanding the program, but
there are no plans or money at this time to distribute the kits widely.

"We don't want to take any steps that make it seem we are encouraging
emigration," said Omar de la Torre, a spokesman for Mexicans Abroad, a new
office that President Vicente Fox set up to improve conditions for Mexican
migrants.

However, de la Torre said, a surge in migrant deaths in recent years - such as
those discovered last week - has prompted officials to think of ways to protect
Mexicans who cross deserts and mountain ranges to enter the United States.

"We just can't shut our eyes and be blind to these deaths," de la Torre said.

The concept of survival training - called "Leave Safe, Return Safe" - is part of
a broader new program to address migrant health problems on both sides of the
border, de la Torre said.

Initial reports in the United States on the training have provoked some negative
reactions from Americans who oppose migration, De la Torre said. But the Mexican
government is committed to trying to protect the lives of migrants, he said.

Hundreds of Mexicans have perished in recent years attempting to cross remote,
dangerous parts of the border. Since 1995, at least 500 people have died,
according to most recent estimates.

The Mexican government has blamed many of these deaths on a U.S. Border Patrol
policy that began in 1995 to seal off sections of the border where migrants
traditionally were smuggled north. Since then, migrants have increasingly turned
to wilderness areas to make their journey.

The attempt to prepare migrants for potential hazards is part of a greater push
from Fox, who took office on Dec. 1 and has been vigorously working to craft a
new attitude toward migration in Mexico and the United States.

In addition to measures to protect migrants' lives, Fox has urged President Bush
and Congress to consider expanding legal work visas for Mexicans so they don't
have to make perilous illegal border crossings.

Fox is the first president in 71 years not to belong to Mexico's former ruling
party. He is also the first president in generations to openly urge allowing
more Mexicans into the United States on temporary work visas.

Fox and Bush have established a cabinet-level binational commission to explore
establishing an expanded guest-worker program in the United States. The
commission is considered a breakthrough in U.S.-Mexico relations.

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Vicente Fox (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              205 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 11, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

LETTING ILLEGALS STAY WON'T AID ECONOMY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 123 words


I do not understand why this administration even would consider legalizing all
the illegal immigrants who have escaped from Mexico for a better way of life in
the United States. Even the illegals who are in our prisons are more fortunate
than they would be if they still were in their home country.

President Bush should strongly consider the impact this agreement to legalize
these Mexicans would have on our country. Why not open up all of our borders? It
would make about as much sense.

We have enough workers in our own country to fill the jobs and do not have to
import illegals, who will work for next to nothing, thus undercutting our own
citizens who want to work for a decent wage.

P. KIEFFER

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
 Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              206 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 28, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

CRIMINAL CHARGES IN TERROR PROBE JUMP TO 104

BYLINE: Rebecca Carr, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft said Tuesday that the Justice Department has
charged 104 people with criminal violations - more than twice the number
previously made public - in its sweeping terrorism investigation.

An additional 548 people are being held on immigration violations such as
overstaying their visas, illegally entering the country or using fake passports.

None of the 652 people facing immigration or federal criminal charges has been
charged with plotting the Sept. 11 terrorist strikes on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

But Ashcroft said he believes some of the people in custody are connected to the
19 hijackers who slammed commercial planes into those buildings and a field in
rural Pennsylvania, killing more than 4,000 people.

"We believe we have Al-Qaeda membership in custody and we will use every
constitutional tool to keep suspected terrorists locked up," Ashcroft said,
referring to the terrorist network run by Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in
the attacks.

Of the 104 people facing criminal charges, 55 are now in custody. The remainder
are being sought or have been released on bond. Charges for 11 others are sealed
under court order.

An unspecified number of people are also being held as material witnesses in the
terrorism investigation. Federal law prohibits identifying them.

The list includes well-known suspects such as Lotfi Raisi, who is suspected of
teaching four of the hijackers how to fly in Arizona. Raisi is being held in
London for lying on his pilot's license application about a previous knee
injury. His extradition hearing began Tuesday.

The list of also includes suspects who have been dismissed from suspicion in the
Sept. 11 attacks, such as the 18 people accused of obtaining fraudulent licenses
to carry hazardous materials.

Responding to the list, the American Civil Liberties Union said Ashcroft did not
go far enough.

"By releasing fragmentary information today, Attorney General Ashcroft finally
seems to have recognized that who the government chooses to arrest and hold in
custody cannot be kept a secret under our system of government," said Tim Edgar,
legislative counsel to the ACLU.

rcarr@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), John Ashcroft (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              207 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 22, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS CRACKDOWN TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 155 words


The Justice Department recently announced cracking a smuggling bus operation
that brought "thousands of illegal aliens from the Mexican border to America's
interior" ("Smuggling ring using bus business cracked, U.S. says," Dec. 11). The
indictment charges "50 to 300 illegals a day, seven days a week."

Justice, according to the article, knew about this in 1996, started an
investigation four years later and cracked down two years after that. So we're
talking six years of continuous operation with government knowledge, Let's do
the math. Using an average of 150 a day times 300 days (time off for the
smugglers to count their money), that's 45,000 a year multiplied by six years.
That means 270,000 illegals (conservative estimate) are affecting Americans'
services.

The underpinnings of this country are weakened by porous borders, lax
enforcement and the hordes flooding in.

WALLACE WALDON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              208 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 22, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

STUDY: HALF OF AGRICULTURE WORKERS IN U.S. ILLEGAL

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly half of America's farm workers, 25 percent of household workers and 10
percent of restaurant employees are illegal aliens, according to a new study
about America's undocumented foreign population.

The report, produced for the privately financed Pew Hispanic Center, was timed
for release as President Bush meets today with President Vicente Fox of Mexico
to discuss border and migration issues.

Although a major amnesty plan is not on the agenda for the talks, officials
continue to discuss a possible increase in permits to boost the number of
temporary workers from Mexico.

The Pew research indicates that the majority of the 7.8 million illegal
residents in the United States come from Mexico. It also found that close to 4
percent of the urban workforce is illegal.

These undocumented workers tend to be clustered in low-wage service and labor
jobs, including garment-making, meat-packing and agricultural work, the study
found. They also make up 6 percent of construction laborers and almost 5 percent
of all manufacturing workers.

Philip Martin, one of the researchers and an economist at the University of
California at Davis, estimated that 47 percent of the 2.5 million farm employees
are in the U.S. illegally.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              209 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 25, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

EDITORIAL MISSED RISK OF HAVING ILLEGALS AT AIRPORTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 145 words


While The Post's editorial Friday, "Security scapegoats," showed compassion for
illegal aliens who were working at local airports, the editorial did not mention
one huge, very possible scenario.

A terrorist finds one of these illegals and says he will expose him to
immigration authorities unless he does what he is told. The illegal must make up
his mind to do what he must do to protect his family. Does he go along with the
terrorist, or does he expose him to the authorities? He or she may be illegal,
but the person may have children born here, therefore making the children
citizens. These people should not be working in sensitive areas such as an
airport.

While I feel for these people, who only are trying to make a better life for
themselves and for their families, we must remember that we now live in
dangerous times.

STAN SCHWARTZ

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              210 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 14, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

QUIT APOLOGIZING FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 133 words


As a long-time resident of Palm Beach County, I was not surprised to read last
week that illegal aliens are straining Lake Worth's city coffers and resources
("Lake Worth's great divide," Oct. 2). The Post's continual apology for this
problem - that these people, while in our country, work hard for less wages,
etc., etc. - simply no longer holds water. These people are killing the
health-care programs and many other systems we have in place to benefit our
county's legal residents.

If these illegal residents were not here, legal residents would be hired to do
these jobs. Business owners probably would have to pay them more and prices
would go up, but I would rather pay more for celery than not have hospital
services there when I need them.

ELIZABETH CARLSON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              211 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 11, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS OF ALL NATIONS SHOULD BE DEPORTED

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 166 words


Where was the U.S. Coast Guard when the boatload of Haitians was out at sea
("Roundup of Haitians sparks policy protests," Oct. 30)? Why wasn't it
intercepted and appropriate action taken before it reached our shores?

Does anyone think this flagrant breach has escaped the notice of those bent on
creating havoc in our country? So much for homeland security. Now, we have a
situation that warms the cockles of bleeding hearts, energizes vote-hungry
politicians and motivates demonstrators who perform for cameras.

These Haitians are illegals and should be dealt with as such. There should be no
reward for breaking our laws. Our taxes are high enough, our social services
affected enough without adding another boatload of need. Allow this invasion to
succeed, and watch for an armada. And as for those who complain that Cubans
enjoy different treatment: Of course they are right. Illegals are exactly that.
They should be discouraged, not welcomed.

WALLACE WALDON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              212 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 27, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

MEXICO WANTS TO RESUME MIGRATION TALKS WITH U.S.

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Vicente Fox told Bush administration officials Tuesday it was
"indispensable" to revive talks toward a comprehensive migration accord between
Mexico and the United States.

After a two-day meeting between U.S. and Mexican officials in Mexico City,
however, Secretary of State Colin Powell offered mixed messages on migration,
explaining that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have set back negotiations.

"There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that this is a priority for President
Bush, just as it is a priority for President Fox, and that we're doing
everything we can to move forward. But we have to be realistic about the changes
that have occurred over the last 14 months," Powell said at a closing press
conference on Tuesday of the U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission.

Fox is under pressure at home to show results from his overtures to the United
States to jointly develop an accord. He has pushed for legal status for some of
the estimated 3 million or more undocumented Mexicans working in the United
States, and a new program for temporary work visas.

Fox and Bush met in Guanajuato, Mexico, in early 2001, and made a commitment to
address illegal migration, a phenomenon both presidents agreed boosted the U.S.
economy but resulted in too many deaths of Mexicans at the border.

"In Guanajuato, we reached an extraordinary conceptual advance on this theme,
although the tragic events of Sept. 11 have required making a priority of
security themes and postponing solutions to other important themes on the
bilateral agenda," Fox said.

In a taped video message to Fox and cabinet members, Bush briefly addressed
migration.

"U.S. migration policies must treat Mexican men, women and children with respect
and dignity," he said. "Our cabinet officials continue to work together on
creative new policies."

Bush also thanked Mexico for its support of a recent United Nations Security
Council resolution to hold Iraq accountable for allowing weapons inspections.

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              213 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 8, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

A 'COYOTE' SINCE HE WAS 13

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 223 words


Manuel Osorio is a coyote. Three hundred crossings. A few jail terms. Plus, the
bumps on his head.

"La migra," he says, leaning his skinny frame back in his tiny house in Tecoman,
Mexico. "They caught me 20 times. The next day, I always cross back."

That's his job. He took it when he was 13. His papi, a traveling farm laborer,
did not earn enough to feed nine children, so Manuel, a responsible boy who
could not read or write, took a bus to the border and studied like a graduate
student.

Now Florida's fields are filled with the fruits of his labor - friends,
relatives and strangers he helped cross. "God bless Manuel," his sister-in-law
in Fellsmere says. "He is a very good man."

And a busy one. Up in Tijuana, they know his number. "The people call for my
services. They say, 'Please, please, Manuel.'

He obliges, mostly. Except . . . his mami thinks it's too dangerous. She is 60,
a widow, crying still for the poor Mexicans who suffocated in the
tractor-trailer in Victoria, Texas.

"I tell him, 'Manuel, please stay put. No more coyote for you.'

Manuel Osorio is a good son, and that is why you will find him these days at the
local cement factory. It is a fine job, but not for itchy feet.

"I hear the border calling," he says, flashing a grin, "and I cannot say I will
not do it again."

- Christine Evans

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 2 OF 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C); 1. LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer They're caught - and
maybe saved: Headlights light up the night desert west of Tucson as U.S. Border
Patrol Agents Jason Waite (left) and Rob Kieman process a group of undocumented
immigrants they have just captured. The first thing the agents do is to provide
the laborers with water. Every year agents intercept hundreds of thousands of
Mexicans and Central Americans sneaking into the United States. Hundreds of
others die in the desert of dehydration and exposure while trying to avoid the
patrols.  2. Manuel Osorio (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              214 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 8, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

VIGILANTES SWEEP DESERT FOR 'CHICKENS'

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1223 words

DATELINE: PALOMINAS, ARIZ.


It is 10 p.m., and Chris Simcox is hidden under a mesquite bush in the desert
south of Tombstone. He wears a cap decorated with the Stars and Stripes and a
T-shirt bearing the words "No Fear." He packs a handgun on his hip.

Other members of his citizens' group, Civil Homeland Defense (CHD), are
concealed in nearby scrub. They lie in wait for undocumented migrants who have
crossed the Mexican border in recent hours. They suspect the migrants will sneak
up an adjacent ravine, heading north toward Tucson. If they do materialize,
Simcox and friends will pounce and try to capture them.

They are called "vigilantes," armed private citizens who patrol the Arizona
desert. They insist they must act because the Bush administration has not
provided homeland security.

"Post-9/11, the president asked us to be vigilant about threats to our
security," says Simcox, 43, CHD president and owner of the weekly newspaper, The
Tombstone Tumbleweed. "But every week, thousands of unidentified people are
crossing this border. Is that security?"

Local church and legal authorities estimate that during the peak winter and
spring seasons, more than 2,000 undocumented migrants per day cross the eastern
Arizona border. Simcox concedes he has made a very small dent in that flow.
Between November 2002, when the group initiated its patrols, and mid-November
2003, he claims CHD apprehended 2,030 persons and turned them over to Border
Patrol officers.

Advocates for migrants fear the vigilante patrols will eventually lead to
tragedy. In at least two instances in the past two years, migrants have been
shot in the Arizona desert, but police attributed both cases to conflicts
between smugglers. Simcox insists none of his members has ever fired a shot at a
migrant and would do so only to protect his or her own life.

"Not one time have we ever harmed anyone," he maintains.

Migrant advocates also accuse vigilantes of racism. On a night when two Palm
Beach Post journalists accompanied them, one CHD member made a racist remark
about a local black businessman. Simcox immediately distanced himself from the
comment and insisted he is not prejudiced, although he couldn't speak for his
cohorts.

"I understand that most of the people crossing are honest and hard-working and
are just trying to feed themselves and their families," he says. "But we don't
know who might be hiding among them. We all benefit from the labor coming
across, but it's coming across unchecked. That's dangerous."

'The possibility of terrorism'

In the 1990s, the Border Patrol increased manpower along the Texas and
California borders and made the Arizona desert the busiest crossing point in the
Southwest. Then came the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and greater fears
about foreigners in the border region.

Simcox says his group has captured citizens of 24 countries, including Russia
and China. Local Border Patrol agents say they have apprehended people from even
more nations in recent years, including Pakistan and Iran.

"There is the possibility of terrorism," says Simcox, "poisoning water supplies
and other acts. We need the Army down here. I'm not stopping until I get that
response, a military presence on the border."

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge has refused, citing cultural and political
sensibilities. Troops on the border would certainly disturb the Mexican
government, which counts on workers coming to the U.S. and sending money back.

Simcox also believes the Bush administration is unwilling to displease U.S.
agricultural interests that depend on undocumented workers. One CHD member,
Cindy Kolb, says President Bush especially doesn't want to irk Florida citrus
growers.

"Around here, we think people like that are guilty of treason," says Kolb,
referring to citrus growers and other employers of undocumented workers.

So the crossings and apprehensions continue in what some locals refer to as "a
game of hide and seek." The great majority of those captured are Mexicans, and,
unless they have criminal records, the Border Patrol simply sends them back to
Mexico. Many turn around within days - sometimes hours - and cross again.

"I once captured the same guy three times in one day," says Border Patrol agent
Dave Beemiller, of Nogales.

"It's absurd," says Simcox.

Bob Dollard, 55, an Arizona rancher, agrees. "One thousand are caught, and at
least 800 are back the next night," he says, sitting astride a white horse on
his Double D Ranch near Palominas. "It's a waste of everybody's time."

Dollard and other ranchers complain that migrants heading north often cause
havoc on their ranchlands. Ranchers say they lose cattle because migrants leave
gates open or topple fences.

"They turn on water and don't turn it off," he says. "And they leave garbage
everywhere, plastic water bottles and food containers. It's a mess."

Dollard also apprehends migrants, in part because of the damage, but also due to
the threat of terrorism.

"You have people walking through your back yard from any place in the world," he
says. "Last December, I caught two people from Poland."

But, like Simcox, he says most migrants are poor Mexicans just looking to
survive. He supports proposed changes in laws, like those currently before the
Congress, that would allow migrants to work in this country legally.

"This (current system) doesn't make any sense," he exclaims. "Anything is better
than this."

Agents encounter gruesome scenes

The Border Patrol enforces the present policies, employing 1,700 people in the
Tucson sector alone. They are responsible for protecting 261 miles of border and
an area as big as New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island combined.

The number of people captured in the Tucson sector in the past four years has
declined from 616,346 in fiscal year 1999 to 347,256 in 2003.

Frank Amarillas, a Border Patrol spokesman, says fewer migrants are crossing due
to greater Border Patrol scrutiny. But migrant advocates say more migrants are
crossing in the remote desert and are harder to find. That has also caused a
sharp increase in the number who have died crossing just in eastern Arizona -
from 29 in 1999 to 139 in 2003, according to Border Patrol figures.

"It's like sucking on a hair dryer, that's how hot it is out there," says
veteran officer Vince Hampel, 42.

Border Patrol agents follow the sneaker tracks of migrants in the desert, an
activity they call "pushing signs." But if a migrant becomes severely
dehydrated, tracking him or her can be extremely difficult.

"They begin to walk in circles," says Hampel. "They no longer follow trails.
They can no longer control what they are thinking or doing."

Migrants often take refuge by lying under mesquite trees, but since the ground
is hotter than the air, it sometimes hastens their deaths.

"I hate to go and look under those trees," says Hampel. And he and other
officers figure they find only a fraction of those who die in the vast
wilderness.

Sometimes, the officers are haunted by what comes to them across the desert.

"We had a woman and her daughter who was about 13," says Hampel. "The daughter
died on the way, and the woman sat next to the body for two days before she went
looking for help.

"I can't take the cases that involve children," he says, shaking his head as if
to dislodge the memory. "It's awful."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 2 OF 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C); Staff photos by LANNIS WATERS 1. Taking enforcement into
their own hands: Chris Simcox (standing at left), president of Civil Homeland
Defense, conducts a meeting before a patrol.  2. Undocumented migrants head for
predetermined spots to be picked up by trucks and vans. The migrants often leave
behind belongings at those pickup points, like this one beside an Arizona
highway.  3. Citizen patrol: Chris Simcox investigates sounds in the brush near
Tombstone, Ariz.. He saw no migrants, but called the Border Patrol and reported
he heard people sneaking through a ravine.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              215 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 11, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY FOR ILLEGALS NO GOOD FOR U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 160 words


"Just as a house needs a door, a nation needs a border" were words spoken by
former Colorado Gov. Richard D. Lamm. President Bush needs to examine this
concept very carefully, for his ideas don't serve the national interest ("Bush
proposes easing migrant worker laws," Thursday).

America does not have to apologize for taking measures to enforce existing laws
requiring the apprehension of illegal aliens. Illegal behavior should not be
rewarded. Is our next step to pardon all illegal behavior within our prison
system? There is no difference in the logic. Condoning illegal behavior further
decays our democratic principles.

Get on with the business of calling out the National Guard to enforce the
borders, round up and deport all illegal immigrants, look at the 14th Amendment
that does not automatically give citizenship to offspring of illegal entrants,
and get on with the business of running the United States.

ALICE SHOOK

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              216 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 13, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

LEGITIMIZING ILLEGALS WITH LICENSES IS WRONG

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 128 words


We are wasting time and taxpayers' money worrying about giving illegal aliens
driver licenses ("Governor: Licenses for illegal immigrants," April 7). There is
something inherently wrong here. These people are here against our laws, and we
are extending yet another privilege to them.

They are here illegally, so ship them back to where they came from and let their
countries give them licenses - at least until they can learn our language and
pass the same tests as any other citizen. We spend far too much money pandering
to these people. My grandparents were forced to learn English before they could
become citizens, and no one made labels in German or Gaelic for them. If people
miss their native cultures so much, why come here?

J.P. LEE

Palm Springs

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              217 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 13, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

LICENSES FOR ALIENS ONLY WILL ENCOURAGE MORE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 117 words


I disagree with the governor's stance on allowing illegal immigrants to obtain
driver licenses. Isn't this borderline aiding and abetting? It seems to me that
this would be one more way of encouraging illegals to flock to our shores.

We already have thousands of people driving illegally. Why don't we attempt to
take care of that problem?

My biggest gripe is that I know several good people from Southeast Asia who
would like to come to the United States as visitors. It is virtually impossible
for them to do so. Yet we seem to be encouraging some groups to come here
illegally and stay. This entire area of the law needs to be reexamined and
revised.

HOWARD M. REYNOLDS

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              218 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 15, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

MASS DEPORTATIONS SEEM IMPLAUSIBLE AT THIS POINT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 152 words


The writer of Monday's letter "Bush's idea to license illegals makes no sense"
ignores the brutal reality of life in the 21st century. Anyone living in dire
poverty in a Third World nation would welcome the opportunity to flee, legally
or otherwise. Because of this, massive deportation of the undocumented no longer
is plausible nor desirable. The price of vegetables, restaurant food and
domestic services would elevate to unaffordable levels.

Likewise, the undocumented contribute part of their earnings to the Social
Security system and never reap the benefits. Without their contributions, this
system, in enough trouble as it is, would collapse all the more rapidly. The
letter-writer should recognize that our "unwelcomed" guests are here to stay,
and giving them licenses is only the first step toward the complete amnesty that
they undoubtedly deserve.

PETE A. de MATTEO

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              219 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 13, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

HERD MENTALITY CAN TRACK COWS BUT NOT ILLEGALS?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 98 words


Does anyone else find it absolutely amazing that the U.S. government can track a
cow born in Canada almost three years ago, right to the stall where she sleeps
in the state of Washington, and determine exactly what that cow ate? The
government also can track her calves right to their stalls, and tell you what
kind of feed they ate. But they are unable to locate 11 million illegal aliens,
including people who may be trying to blow up important structures in the U.S.

My solution is to give every illegal alien a cow as soon as he or she enters the
country.

BILL PERHAM

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              220 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 22, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

'WE CAN'T STAND IT ANYMORE,' JAILED HAITIAN WOMAN SAYS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The walls of cellblock K-46 are decorated with hand-drawn flags of nations.
Pastel hearts cut from poster paper hang on each cell door.

But tears of sorrow poured from the 23 Haitian women detained here on
immigration charges as members of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights toured a
federal detention wing at a Miami-Dade County jail Friday.

"Our suffering is hard and we can't stand it anymore," a woman dressed in an
orange jail uniform told commission Chairwoman Mary Frances Berry. "We seek
peace, freedom and security. Please, please take our case into consideration."

Berry and other members of the commission toured the county's Turner Guilford
Knight Detention Center after civil rights attorneys and community leaders
pleaded for an investigation of the U.S. immigration policy that jails Haitians
awaiting asylum rulings.

Berry, who was in Miami for a meeting on Florida's controversial 2000 elections,
said it "makes no sense" for the women to have been held for seven months. She
said she will follow up on the Haitians' plight but did not promise a full
investigation.

"We will be doing everything we can, but that doesn't mean that you are going to
get out tomorrow."

She said she will ask the Bush administration to explain why Haitians are
automatically detained while their asylum requests are considered, instead of
being released, as is usually done with people of other nationalities.

Immigration advocates say the Immigration and Naturalization Service adopted a
new policy on Haitians entering by air or sea in December, when a boat carrying
187 Haitians ran aground near Miami.

The Bush administration says the change was necessary to keep Haitians from
attempting the dangerous and illegal boat passage to Florida. Justice Department
figures for 2001 indicate that, before the policy change, the average time for a
Haitian national to receive an asylum hearing was just more than three months.

Most of the 23 women at the maximum-security jail were on the boat. Another 185
Haitian men seeking asylum are being held at the Krome Detention Center west of
Miami and other women with children are kept under guard at leased motels.

At the county jail, the women complained about unjust treatment and being
separated from their families.

Some slipped notes to Berry as they told her of physical and emotional pains
from their seven months behind bars. One woman with braided hair said nothing
but wailed loudly.

"She misses her children," a jail official said.

Another woman showed Berry her serving of breakfast (two slices of bread, an
apple and fat-free milk) and lunch (a ham and cheese sandwich and a pear).

The INS leases cellblocks in the county jail to hold immigrants who are
considered flight risks. Earlier, at the hearing, Marie Jocelyn Ocean, 29,
testified to the commission that she fled Haiti in December after her father and
brother were killed by violent mobs on the civil-war-plagued island.

"I decided to leave to save my life," Ocean said through an interpreter. "But
when I arrived here, I was locked up in a room with four women and a 7-year-old
child."

Ocean described her harrowing half-year in prison before she was granted asylum.
She said she was fed only spoiled food and allowed out of the facility only four
times. Guards frequently strip-searched the women and allowed them to wash their
only garment - a prison uniform - every 21 days, she said. "I thought America
would protect us," Ocean said.

The Haitians are held on administrative charges and are being treated fairly,
said INS spokesman Rodney Germain. Detentions are decided case-by-case, he said,
but he referred other policy questions to the INS headquarters.

Other speakers told commissioners at the briefing that the INS implemented a
secret policy after the December boat landing to deter other Haitians from
entering illegally.

"The INS has adopted an intentional no-release policy for Haitians and Haitians
alone," said Rebecca Sharpless, an attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center. "If you are an Ecuadorean, you get out. If you're Haitian, you don't."

Panelists also pointed to disparities in the treatment of Haitian and Cuban
refugees. According to the "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy, Cuban rafters who reach
U.S. soil are automatically allowed to stay in the country. They are often
released to relatives shortly after the INS takes them into custody.

"There's a pattern of racial and ethnic discrimination," said Clarel Cyriaque,
former president of the Haitian Lawyers Association. "No other group is
subjected to this treatment."

Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, president of Barry University, cried as she urged the
commission to investigate.

"I plead. I weep with you over the sins against these people. It is wrong," said
O'Laughlin, the Dominican nun at the center of the Elian Gonzalez case two years
ago.

Peter Kirsanow, another commissioner, said resolution of the detention issue
should not wait for a lengthy investigation. "We don't want people sitting in
jail who have committed no crimes."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              221 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 3, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS PROTEST DETENTIONS HUNDREDS RALLY TO URGE RELEASE OF ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: By GARIOT LOUIMA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 755 words


In between calls for justice and equal rights, Haitian voters danced to mizik
angaje - Creole demonstration songs that move masses to action.

"When you hear it, you can't be still," said Haitian activist Karlie Richardson,
deputy director of the Haitian American Community Council. "We're engaging
ourselves. We're pulling strength from one another."

Nearly 300 Haitian demonstrators danced to the thumping sounds of the Haitian
rallying songs Saturday in their first major show of solidarity in Palm Beach
County. Theirs was one of a handful of demonstrations throughout South Florida
since the televised arrival and subsequent detention of the 235 immigrants who
came ashore when their boat ran aground near Miami's Rickenbacker Causeway
Tuesday.

From Miami to West Palm Beach, the demands were the same: the immediate release
of Haitian asylum seekers from Krome Detention Center and a reexamination of the
immigration policies that keep Haitian refugees in detention centers while
allowing those from other national groups to remain free until their immigration
status is determined.

In West Palm Beach, more than 100 Haitian voters arrived at election
headquarters on buses chartered by the Democratic Party, then joined hundreds
more for a bilingual rally in front of the Federal Building in downtown West
Palm Beach.

They chanted in the Creole and English. "Jistice!  Now!"

"Today should go down as a day of history," said Boynton Beach chiropractor
Wedley Alexandre. "On Nov. 5, we all need to send a message to the politicians
that the Haitian community cannot be taken for granted."

The group gathered on the sidewalk shortly after 4 p.m. At one point, they
paused to sing the Haitian national anthem, For the Flag, for Our People, which
they promptly followed with the American national anthem.

As the sun went down, the protesters marched up and down Clematis Street to the
sound of Creole revolutionary songs.

"As a Haitian, you have to represent where you're from and not let people do
whatever they want to do to you," said 13-year-old Christina Joseph of West Palm
Beach, draped in a Haitian flag. "I'm proud of what I am and I'm here to show
it."

Christina's mother, Leonore, said, "For the people, we want justice and we want
liberty."

Organizers said the events would show political leaders that Haitians can no
longer be ignored.

"When we come together and vote, Washington has to listen to us," said Daniella
Henry, executive director of the Delray beach-based Haitian American Community
Council. "We may not have the money to hire lobbyists, but we have the vote. And
the vote is just as powerful as money."

The protesters demanded that Gov. Jeb Bush ask his brother, the president, to
issue an executive order releasing all Haitian immigrants from Krome by noon
today..

"Jeb Bush says he has more power in Washington than Bill McBride," Alexandre
said. "Let him prove his power."

Bush said Saturday that he's spoken to his brother in the past about U.S.
immigration policies and will speak to him again.

"We should be compassionate in our treatment, but in doing so, we need to
recognize that the immigration laws need to be upheld," he said.

Bush said he wants balance and doesn't support a policy that would encourage
mass immigration of Haitians.

"We're going to see a lot of Haitians leave Haiti and risk their lives in the
Straits of Florida," he said. "That would be completely inappropriate.
Inappropriate for us and inappropriate for them."

McBride, the governor's Democratic opponent, has said he would push the federal
government to change its immigration policies.

"Mr. McBride has been working with the Haitian people since the beginning," said
Emmie Ross, McBride's minority coordinator. "If you work with him, he'll work
with you," she told protestors.

Palm Beach County Elections Supervisor Theresa LePore said 918 people, including
the Haitians who arrived en masse, voted Saturday, while elections workers began
feeding more than 40,000 absentee ballots through optical-scan machines. The
machines are scanning and reading the ballots, but not tabulating them, LePore
said. State law prohibits any vote tabulations before Tuesday.

LePore said she didn't know how many Haitian voters arrived on the buses
chartered by the Democratic Party.

"We're here and we have a voice," said organizer Philippe "Bob" Louis Jeune of
the Haitian Citizen Task Force.

Staff Writers Sarah Eisenhauer and Marc Caputo contributed to this report.

- gariot_louima@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CYDNEY SCOTT/Staff Photographer Edgard Jinio, 3, of Lake
Worth stays close to his mother, Rosela Gabriel, during a West Palm Beach rally
Saturday in which Haitian-Americans protested the U.S. government's treatment of
Haitian refugees.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              222 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 30, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

MUSLIM IN KROME VICTIM OF THE TIMES?

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1265 words


In a tiny room behind a thick glass panel at the Krome Detention Center,
Muhammad Ehtisham smiles and says, "If I don't smile and laugh a lot, I would
die inside."

Ehtisham, 35, has had almost 16 months to use laughter as an antidote to
depression.

He hasn't been charged with a crime. But since Sept. 9, 2001, when he arrived at
this detention center on the eastern edge of the Everglades on a false passport
seeking political asylum, the Pakistani-born Ehtisham has been locked away in
the center's beige cinder block buildings, which hold more than 600 people.

It's impossible to know - because the Immigration and Naturalization Service
won't say - how many South Asian and Middle Eastern men, mostly Muslim, remain
at this former missile base 25 miles southwest of downtown Miami and in eight
other detention centers throughout the country.

The government has arrested at least 1,200 people - although human rights
observers believe the figure could be as high as 2,000 - in post-Sept. 11
sweeps. Most have been deported by now, a few were released into this country,
more are being picked up regularly, but no one except the government knows the
total or the breakdown of what is becoming a gulag of immigrants.

One Florida Muslim organization estimates that 35 men who were picked up after
the Sept. 11 attacks remain in Krome. Other immigrant advocacy groups say the
number ranges from 30 to 50.

Waiting for the government to act

Month after month, Ehtisham's life has hinged on government action, or inaction.

Ehtisham waited eight months before an immigration judge heard his case and
ruled against his petition for political asylum. Ehtisham had trouble getting a
lawyer and obtaining documents from Pakistan to support his petition, which
contributed to the delay, and he still hasn't gotten the documents from
Pakistan.

Since the judge's ruling against him last May, Ehtisham's case has been mired in
the appeal process. Ehtisham's lawyer filed notice of an appeal on May 29, and
submitted a brief supporting his appeal on Aug. 18.

During this time, the Board of Immigration Appeals, which immigrant advocacy
groups say has become a rubber stamp for decisions by immigration judges, has
been silent on the case. An official of the Executive Office of Immigration
Review in Washington refused to discuss the case, but said a delay of this
length isn't unusual.

Citing privacy issues, the INS in Miami won't discuss Ehtisham at all.

"I don't want to go back to Pakistan. I want to stay in America," Ehtisham said
through an interpreter during the first visit he has received since August. His
case for asylum is built on his fear of persecution if he returns to Pakistan,
where his father, an official in the Muslim political party for which Ehtisham
campaigned for years, has been in prison for two years.

If he is refused asylum in the United States, Ehtisham would like to live in
Canada. He was, in fact, granted a hearing with Canadian officials in Los
Angeles on Dec. 16, but U.S. immigration officials refused to release him to
attend the hearing. As long as Ehtisham remains locked up in Krome, his attempts
to seek asylum in Canada, or anywhere else, probably will be blocked.

If the Board of Immigration Appeals rejects his appeal, Ehtisham probably will
be deported to Pakistan. If he withdraws his appeal before the board rules,
Ehtisham surely will be deported to Pakistan.

Cut off from family in U.S., abroad

During his nearly 16 months at Krome, Ehtisham estimates that he has had about
10 visits, all by lawyers. He has been unable to communicate with his jailed
father in Pakistan, or with his two apolitical brothers and two sisters, who are
also in Pakistan, or with cousins who are in the United States. His mother is
dead.

Lest he forget who he is, Ehtisham wears an inch and a quarter blue and white
plastic ID bracelet on his left wrist. Even that doesn't help completely because
the government, despite his frequent attempts to correct the mistake, spells his
last name Ehpisham. On the positive side, the guards allow the bracelet to fit
loosely because by now they are familiar with him and nice to him.

"Every Muslim is not a terrorist," Ehtisham says, with a smile. "A lot of
innocent people are being held here."

Although he has not been ill, Ehtisham says he has lost 26 pounds during his
time at Krome. He remains round-faced and his hair is receding sharply. His
weeks are filled with boredom, but he can recite quickly the events that
interest him:

"On Thursday nights I watch wrestling from 8 to 9:30. On Saturday night, from 6
to 8, I listen to songs in Hindi on the radio, and from 12 to 4 on Sunday
afternoons I also listen to songs in Hindi. This is what I do."

Ehtisham speaks Urdu, the language of Pakistan, but Hindi, India's main
language, and Urdu are essentially the same.

"When things go bad, when other people inside fight among themselves and get
sent to isolation, I go to sleep, I pray, play cards and football (soccer),"
Ehtisham said. "I don't want to go to isolation."

Ehtisham told Immigration Judge Rex J. Ford that he bought a false U.S. passport
for $20,000 from a friend in Pakistan. The price included airplane tickets from
Lahore, Pakistan, to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, to Milan and then to
Miami, Ehtisham said. The trip took four days, he said.

When he was stopped in Miami as an arriving immigrant, Immigration officials
found that Ehtisham had a "credible fear" of persecution in Pakistan.

Well-founded fear, or not?

But eight months later, when Judge Ford denied Ehtisham's asylum request, Ford
said Ehtisham lacked a well-founded fear of persecution in Pakistan. The judge
rejected Ehtisham's request for more time to obtain documents from Pakistan to
prove his membership in a political party that opposes the current government
and which might prove his fear of persecution is credible.

What happened between Sept. 9, 2001, and May 2002 is not so much that Pakistan's
government changed its policies, but that U.S. policy toward that government
changed.

Pakistan, under Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who is president and army chief, is now
considered a frontline state against Al-Qaeda and other Muslim extremists,
although Pakistan previously was a funnel through which U.S. aid poured into the
hands of militant Arab and other Muslim extremists in Afghanistan.

Ehtisham's asylum claim is based on his and his father's membership in the
Muslim League, a militant political party led by former Pakistani President
Nawaz Sharif. After Musharraf overthrew Sharif, who was popularly elected, in a
bloodless military coup in October 1999, Sharif and his family were exiled to
Saudi Arabia.

A year after the coup, Ehtisham said, his father, a well-to-do contractor, was
thrown in jail with other members of the Muslim League, and Ehtisham himself hid
for a year before he fled to the United States.

Musharraf's government, Ehtisham told Judge Ford, "apprehended many members of
the Muslim League."

If he returned to Pakistan, Ehtisham told the judge, "The army government is at
the airport. They will check the data and put me in jail." The judge rejected
his argument.

Ehtisham's will to continue his asylum fight is waning. But the humor that fuels
his spirit isn't flagging.

If he is allowed to enter the United States, Ehtisham said from behind the thick
glass panel, he probably will seek work in a gasoline station or a grocery
store.

"I'm not going to say they should make me chief at Krome," he said, mustering
another smile.

- lou_salome@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W); 1. Photo by Paul Lomartire About 25 miles from Miami,
the detention center houses more than 600 immigrants in jail-like conditions.
2. Muhammad Ehtisham (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              223 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 9, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

RUSH TO ASYLUM JUDGMENT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 402 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft has made clear that he is willing to scuttle
long-standing American principles of fairness toward immigrants in implementing
a misguided campaign against terrorism.

Mr. Ashcroft has ordered hundreds of Middle Eastern men held indefinitely
without charges, open hearings or access to attorneys. In South Florida, his
secret policy change has kept more than 200 Haitian asylum-seekers detained in
jails and the Krome Avenue Detention Center until the government hears their
cases, a discriminatory penalty that no other refugee group faces. Perhaps Mr.
Ashcroft's most ambitious travesty, however, is his reckless commitment to
eliminate by a March 25 deadline the 56,000-case backlog of the Board of
Immigration Appeals.

The 23-member board of federal adjudicators reviews the rulings of 220
immigration judges nationwide and often gets the final call that determines
whether a foreigner stays or goes. For those who face torture or execution in
their homeland, the board's decision can be a matter of life and death. A
computer analysis by the Los Angeles Times that appeared Sunday in The Post
found that summary rulings - complete rejection of all claims for asylum - have
increased by more than 400 percent since Mr. Ashcroft set out to erase the
backlog.

The government has dismissed thousands of appeals without explanation.
Individual board members have replaced three-member panels, and they decide
dozens of cases in one day, often after reviews that last only a few minutes.
Complex asylum issues and disputed jurisdictional matters sail through the
system without a second look, and many immigrants do not have lawyers. Board
members have been working nine-hour days without lunch breaks to run up their
rulings, according to the Times. The rejection rate has soared in recent months,
up about 50 percent over the previous year, as the speed of decisions
accelerated.

Mr. Ashcroft has every reason to want the backlog cleared but has no
justification for sacrificing due process to do it. The Justice Department and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service must make sweeping changes to
overcome decades-old bureaucratic problems and respond effectively to the threat
of terrorism. But no change should compromise Americans' fundamental belief that
even if all people who come here don't have the right to stay, every person is
entitled to a fair shake.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              224 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 15, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FILLING THE LABOR GAP;
VISA PROCESS CUMBERSOME, EMPLOYERS SAY

BYLINE: Susan Salisbury and Stephen Pounds, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1704 words


Hugo Domingo, a 28-year-old farm worker from Guatemala, has a job Americans
don't want. He's planting peppers in the vegetable fields along State Road 7 for
$ 5.15 an hour.

Adriana Ries, a 27-year-old computer engineer from Brazil, has a job not enough
Americans are qualified to do. Well-educated workers such as Adriana are paid $
48,000 to $ 55,000 a year by Siemens in Boca Raton to test software for
telecommunications networks before it is sold to customers.

Opposite ends of the economic spectrum, to be sure, but Domingo and Ries share
one trait: Their employers want the federal government to make it easier to
import workers for brawn and brain work.

Congress is trying to streamline the way the United States brings in the foreign
workers it needs to supplement its work force. The issues differ, but the bottom
line, according to farmers, high-tech employers and others, is the H-1B visa
program used to bring in high-tech workers for up to six years and the H-2A
program that supplies farm workers for up to a 10-month stretch need to be
overhauled.

Foreign workers are crucial to the nation's and South Florida's growing
high-tech industry, which competes globally for the minds that drive it. The
farming industry that supplies much of the nation's winter vegetables needs
tomatoes, green peppers and other crops picked by old-fashioned manual labor.

The two sets of workers are vastly different in how they view their place in the
economy. As a result, the ripple effect of spending by a high-tech worker is
much greater, said Florida Atlantic University economics professor Rupert Rhodd.

"High-tech visa workers will be more willing to contribute to the local economy
because they see themselves as having a longer stay," Rhodd said. "Farm workers
are going to save their money until they are going back" to their home country.

Many farm workers enter the United States illegally, crossing the border in
hopes of a better life. An estimated 52 percent of the nation's 1.6 million farm
workers are undocumented aliens, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.

South Florida growers are worried that the supply of workers, while adequate
today, could diminish as immigration laws are toughened. Farmers say they're
squeezed by policies that punish them for hiring illegals, yet provide them
little alternative in an economy where jobs that pay more than farm work are
plentiful.

Typical is Cristobal Huix, 49, of Lake Worth, who fled Guatemala in February
1999 after Hurricane Mitch destroyed his tomato farm.

"When I came here, I picked cucumbers for two weeks, making $ 5.15 an hour. Then
I met another person who took me to work at a landscape nursery," Huix said. "I
got out of farm work. I make $ 6.75 an hour at the nursery now."

Workers leave the farms

Upward mobility of workers makes a farm worker shortage in South Florida more of
a possibility every year, growers say.

"A lot of our workers flow right out to construction," said David Neill, tomato
grower at Triangle Farms in Fort Pierce. "Last year it got tight enough that I
was concerned."

That's why growers and agriculture industry advocates have been pushing the past
few years for a revised "guest worker" policy that would replace the cumbersome
H-2A program. Under H-2A, companies can bring in temporary workers for up to 10
months if there are too few domestic workers to do a job.

Farmers in South Florida have not used the program because of requirements they
consider rigid and burdensome. The exception was the sugar industry, which hired
H-2A workers before its harvest became highly mechanized in the mid-1990s.

Nationwide, only 41,000 agricultural workers came in with H-2A temporary work
visas last year out of a total of 340,000 new migrant workers.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham has proposed bills for several years running that would
reform the agricultural labor system by streamlining H-2A and give undocumented
workers already working here the chance to attain legal status gradually. In
May, Hispanic groups protested a provision requiring long-term farm workers who
seek permanent resident status to work in agriculture a minium of 180 days a
year for five of the next seven years.

Graham, a Miami Lakes Democrat, said he is "cautiously optimistic about an
agreement being reached and the bill passing this session." But the session is
expected to close by this week.

"The reason everybody is trying to get this thing through is that we look at it
as an insurance policy," said Walter Kates, labor relations director for the
Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association in Orlando. "We know a large percentage
of our workers are illegal. Everybody knows that. There's got to be something to
take their place. All you're doing is recognizing reality."

Farm jobs expected to shrink

While farmers worry about labor shortages, farm worker advocate Greg Schell, who
heads the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Belle Glade, says a worker
surplus is more likely than a shortage, particularly near State Road 7 in Palm
Beach County, where development continues to eat up vegetable acreage. Add the
increased mechanization of the citrus industry to the picture, as well as
competition from produce grown outside the United States, and Schell says the
number of farm jobs here will shrink.

Legislative relief is more likely in the high-tech sector. Congress this month
approved legislation called the American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act
of 2000. President Clinton has said he will sign it. It would increase the
number of H-1B visas by 297,500 to 600,000 during the next three years. That
will boost the number of annual visas from 115,000 to 195,000 in the first year.
In the federal government's recently ended budget year, the old visa limit was
reached in six months.

The new law also would make it easier for workers already in the country under
H-1B to change jobs. Foreign students who receive master's degrees from U.S.
universities and stay to work are exempt from the H-1B cap.

Local companies, including Siemens Information and Communication Networks,
Daleen Technologies, Qtera Corp., DBT Online and HotOffice Technologies, all of
Boca Raton, use the H-1B visa program to supplement their American work forces.

Motorola, with a large plant in Boynton Beach, was the largest user in the
nation during a five-month period from October 1999 to February 2000, according
to a study by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Janice Carey, recruitment manager for Motorola in South Florida, said the
Schaumburg, Ill.-based company fills 15 percent to 20 percent of its engineering
jobs here using the program. Motorola employs 1,200 engineers and programmers in
Boynton Beach out of a work force of 2,400 to 2,600.

Motorola scours American universities and job fairs for applicants. It uses
college and high school internship programs to foster loyalty in potential
employees. It even uses executive speakers at community events to drum up
interest.

"Like all companies right now, we're very competitive for all the talent that's
available," Carey said. "We try to be creative in hiring locally because hiring
from overseas is more expensive."

Companies live on labor

Without going overseas for engineers, technicians and programmers, high-tech
companies would be stifled, and the country's economic prosperity would falter,
said Benton Howie, Siemens' human resources director.

"The boom we've had is based on technology companies, and they live on labor. If
you cut off this labor, you'll dry up this boom like a desert," he said.

Employees such as Giri Rao, 31, of India, a Siemens systems test engineer for
wireless networks who came here on an H-1B visa, are a part of that boom. Rao
wants to stay with Siemens because he believes the company is in the forefront
of data and communications technology.

Many workers from overseas decide they want to stay once they're here. Adriana
Bruges, 32, of Venezuela has worked the past five months at Daleen Technologies
as a software support and testing employee. She and her husband, Alexander
Bracho, a computer consultant with Analyze International in Boca Raton, both
entered the United States under H-1B visas.

Bruges hopes to stay in South Florida rather than return to Venezuela. She
prefers the business culture here.

"When you are on a project, you have different steps or phases that you must
complete before you go on. It's all documented and the client is involved all
along the way," she said. "In Venezuela, it's just: 'Get it completed.' Here is
better, higher quality."

Already, her mother, Ana Serrano, has come to visit her.

"She liked it here," Bruges said. "We went to Orlando and saw Mickey Mouse."

susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

stephen_pounds@pbpost.com

New H-1B visa legislation highlights

- Increase the cap on the number of visas by 297,500 during three years to a
total 600,000.

- The H-1B visa becomes more portable. A visa holder may begin work with a new
employer when he submits a new visa petition rather than waiting for petition
approval.

- Foreigners who have just obtained master's degrees from U.S. universities
would be exempt from the cap.

- The $ 500 fee for each visa (in addition to the $ 110 filing fee) is extended.

- The Department of Labor will investigation allegations of visa fraud.
Fraudulently obtained visas will be revoked and returned to the pool.

Top 10 companies with most H-1B visas nationally

Rank Company Visas

1.  Motorola 618

2.  Oracle 455

3.  Cisco Systems 398

4.  Mastech 389

5.  Intel 367

6.  Microsoft 362

7.  Rapidigm 357

8.  Syntel 337

9.  Wipro Ltd.  327

10.  Tata

Consultancy

Serv.  320

Top 10 countries of H-1B worker origin

Rank Country Workers

1.  India 34,381

2.  China 7,987

3.  Canada 3,143

4.  United

Kingdom 2,598

5.  Philippines 2,576

6.  Taiwan 1,794

7.  Korea 1,691

8.  Japan 1,631

9.  Pakistan 1,508

10.  Russia 1,408

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C) & GRAPHIC (C, 1. JAMES W. PRICHARD/Staff Photographer,
Leighton Sweeting, 31, of the Bahamas; Adriana Reis, 27, of Brazil; Giri Rao,
31, of India; and Javier Perez, 33, of Spain, all work for Siemens Information
and Communication Networks Inc. in Boca Raton. Siemens is a major high-tech
employer of foreign workers., 2. JENNIFER PODIS/Staff Photographer, Hugo
Domingo, 28, (left), a Guatemalan farm worker, plants peppers in the vegetable
fields along State Road 7 for $ 5.15 an hour., 3. STAFF GRAPHIC, Top 10
companies with most H-1B visas nationally

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              225 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               December 2, 2000 Saturday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MIGRANT ENSLAVED BY CREW LEADER, FEDS CHARGE

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-Fiske, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE FP MIGRANT KIDNAP EMPLOYEE COURT POLICE CHARGE


A Fort Pierce citrus grove crew leader charged by a federal grand jury with
virtually enslaving a migrant worker was arrested earlier this month in Tampa
after being stopped for a traffic violation, according to the assistant U.S.
attorney handling the case.

Michael Allen Lee, 42, was responsible for assembling work crews to staff local
groves, according to Assistant U.S. Attorney Roy Cohn. Cohn said he chose
instead to kidnap and beat at least one citrus picker, George Williams, from
December 1996 to April 1997.

Lee, originally from Webster, was charged with conspiracy against rights of
citizens, including the "right to be free from involuntary servitude" in the
grand jury indictment issued Oct. 5 and unsealed Nov. 17, two days after his
arrest by Center Hill police on a cocaine possession charge.

The FBI was still searching Friday for two of Lee's crew members also charged
with conspiracy against rights of citizens - Billy Rankin and William Smith,
both of Fort Pierce.

"Mr. Williams tried to leave but he was forcibly brought back. He escaped and
reported it to police," Cohn said.

Lee previously pleaded no contest in 1997 to cocaine possession and possession
with intent to sell charges in Stuart. He was sentenced to six months in jail
followed by two years' probation.

Speaking from his Washington office, Cohn said there may be others the three
intimidated besides Williams, who was named in the indictment.

Cohn said he was unable to comment on those investigations.

If convicted on the sole count of the indictment, Lee will face up to 10 years
in prison and a $250,000 fine.

molly_hennessy_fiske@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              226 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 20, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

GUEST-WORKER PLAN FACES TOUGH ROAD

BYLINE: Eunice Moscoso, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: SNOW HILL, N.C.


Nicolas Ramos spends most of his summer days in the hot tobacco and cucumber
fields of North Carolina as a guest of the United States.

Invited to work hard and motivated by economic frustration in his native Mexico,
Ramos migrated legally to this rural Southern town to make some money.

He is part of a small U.S. guest-worker program that allows agricultural
employers to bring in temporary foreign workers for months at a time. The
program brought in fewer than 50,000 workers in 1999, but growers are starting
to use it more frequently.

The program has been plagued by workers' accusations of abuse and employers'
complaints of cumbersome paperwork.

Both may soon have an alternative.

The Bush administration is working with the Mexican government on a plan that
could bring thousands of temporary guest workers to the United States.

In addition, the U.S. Congress is gearing up for possible dueling guest-worker
proposals by Sens. Bob Graham, D-Fla., and Phil Gramm, R-Texas.

The two differ on whether seasonal foreign workers should eventually be entitled
to permanent U.S. residency or citizenship.

Graham last year proposed a guest-worker program that would have, under certain
conditions, allowed workers to accrue time toward permanent residency.

Gramm, a powerful Republican, helped defeat Graham's measure, which was an
unusual compromise between U.S. labor organizers and agricultural employers.

Gramm's counter-proposal would cut a special deal with Mexico to bring in
workers but would preclude the option of legal residency. It would, however,
allow a one-time exemption for illegal workers and their employers to apply for
the guest-worker permits.

Proponents say such a program would supply labor while reducing illegal and
dangerous border crossings, and the plan has become a centerpiece of improved
U.S.-Mexico relations. But it has also found enemies on both ends of the
political spectrum.

Opponents of further immigration say the temporary workers won't leave when
their visas expire, creating thousands more illegal aliens. Hispanic groups and
farm-worker advocates say the program could lead to further exploitation of
workers, many of whom already live in substandard conditions in isolated areas,
completely dependent on their employers for housing, food, health care and
transportation.

The workers here live in crowded, messy rooms, often lit by just one light bulb
hanging from the ceiling. Some rooms have small fans to bring some relief from
the heat; others don't. Workers pay for their own food, which they cook in a
shared kitchen.

Groups including the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group,
say they will not support a guest-worker plan unless it includes some chance at
permanent residency and allows workers to bring their families along.

Along a farm road in eastern North Carolina, in a small house full of workers,
policy questions come down to one easy concept: it is better to be legal.

"The coyote is charging more than $2,000 to sneak people in," said Rafael Garcia
Fuentes, 36, referring to the shadowy figures that smuggle workers across the
U.S.- Mexico border. "You have to work for at least two months just to pay him
off and if that's not bad enough, you risk your life crossing the border."

Fuentes said he worked six days a week, eight to 12 hours a day. He wishes there
were more work on Sundays.

In his room, shared by four men, it is too hot at night to wear shirts. On a
wall, a paper sign tells workers to use Ben-Gay ointment and perform stretching
exercises to relieve aching muscles and backs.

Fuentes said suffering for a few months away from his family was worth it.

"What I make here in a week could last two or three months in Mexico," he said.
"I'm here because of need. If I didn't have need, I'd rather be home comfortable
with my family."

eunicem@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), CHRIS CUMMINS/Cox News Service
, Nicolas Ramos, 25, (left) and David Vasquez Martinez, 30, are guest, workers
brought in legally from Mexico to work in tobacco fields near, Snow Hill, N.C.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              227 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 15, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

EDITORIAL JUSTIFIES A BAD LABOR SITUATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 235 words


The Aug. 7 editorial "Plan works for workers" closes with a statement lauding
"reasonable changes that allow foreign workers to earn a living wage and avoid
abject poverty doing jobs native Americans don't want"; this is disingenuous on
two counts. First, the minimum wage does not provide a living wage for the 12
million Americans who try to subsist on it. It would have to be at least $7.50
an hour to be even remotely considered a living wage. Second, there are no jobs
Americans won't do if they are paid commensurate with the difficulties, danger
and repugnance of any given task.

Our vaunted system works on supply and demand. The presence of 8 million illegal
"slave-wage" laborers in our society creates a constant labor surplus that
ensures permanently low wages for many American workers and a below-living wage
for those on the lowest end of the scale. Making these workers legal or their
future compatriots legal guest workers does not change the result of their
presence.

I cannot fault these people for trying to better their lot by coming to America,
but I do fault those who speciously attempt to justify their living and working
in our society when the consistent result is not only the vicious exploitation
of immigrants but the continued impoverishment of the American working class and
the correspondent destruction of the American family.

RICHARD A. SHERMAN

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              228 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 12, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

COURT ADDRESSES UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS' BENEFITS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


When undocumented workers in Florida were killed on the job, their beneficiaries
received $50,000 in workers compensation benefits - half of that given to
families of U.S. workers killed while working.

Last month, an appeals court overturned the state law that limited the payment.

In the case of Juan Lopez, a 29-year-old Mexican native who died after falling
off a roof while working for a Wellington roofing contractor, the First District
Court of Appeal ruled equitable death benefits must be paid in deaths of
undocumented workers, even when their beneficiaries live outside the country.

The Tallahassee-based appeals court, which hears all workers compensation
issues, ordered the roofing company and its insurance carrier, Stirling Cooke
Insurance Co., to pay Lopez's survivors the full $100,000. The state law, which
passed in 1987, had capped death benefits at $50,000 if survivors of the
undocumented worker lived in a foreign country.

"The ruling prohibits any discrimination in the amount of death benefits," said
West Palm Beach attorney Philip Burlington, who worked on the appeal along with
Lopez's attorney, Jose Rodriguez.

The $100,000 benefit had been reserved for legal U.S. residents and Canadians.
Foreign-born workers without visas whose families resided in the United States
also qualified for the higher payment.

The July 19 ruling will have significant impact across the state, workers comp
attorney Gerald Rosenthal said.

"It's amazing that it has taken this long, because it was obvious to everybody
that it was an equal-protection issue," said Rosenthal, director of the Florida
Workers Compensation Institute, a nonprofit educational organization for workers
comp specialists.

The Academy of Florida Trial Lawyers, a 3,800-member group, also applauded the
ruling. The academy had filed a petition in support of Lopez.

An average of 360 workers are killed on the job each year in Florida.

Rodriguez was away on vacation this week, but last week he told the
Spanish-language newspaper El Latino that the benefits cap was unfair to Latin
American workers.

More than 20 percent of the 329 workers killed on the job in Florida in 2000
were Hispanic, according to the Florida Department of Labor. Citizenship or
legal status was not noted.

An employee of Ideal Roofing Systems Inc., Lopez died on Dec. 6, 2000, two days
after falling from the roof. He left a wife and three children, ages 2, 5 and 8,
in the central Mexican city of Altamirano.

While state law capped insurance carrier payments at $50,000 for undocumented
workers' deaths, many paid the full amount in death cases, Rosenthal said.

Seven Guatemalan families received $100,000 each in benefits when their
relatives died in a crash near South Bay while on their way to plant sugar cane
in October 1991.

Burlington said it appeared that carriers paid the $100,000 to undocumented
workers if it seemed likely the survivors would challenge the lower amount in
court.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              229 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              November 21, 2002 Thursday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

3 SENTENCED FOR FORCING 700 INTO SLAVERY IN GROVES

BYLINE: By KELLY WOLFE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Three men convicted of forcing 700 illegal workers into slave labor in Florida's
citrus groves drew prison sentences totaling 34 years and nine months Wednesday
in addition to forfeiting $3 million in proceeds from their immigrant smuggling
operation.

The presiding federal judge also criticized the citrus industry, calling the
slavery convictions a sign of the larger problems in Florida's second-largest
industry.

"Others at a higher level of the fruit picking industry seem complicit in one
way or another with how these activities occur," U.S. District Judge K. Michael
Moore said while handing down the sentences. "I think there is a broader
interest out there the government should look into as well."

Relatives of three men convicted in June of forcing the 700 illegal workers into
slavery packed a small courtroom Wednesday, but not one victim was there to
watch them be sentenced. Prosecutor Adrianna Vieco told Moore the victims
couldn't afford to take a day off work.

In 2000 and 2001, hundreds of workers supplied by brothers Juan and Ramiro Ramos
and a cousin, Jose Ramos, picked fruit from dawn until sundown, bringing home as
little as $6 a day after making payments on a "smuggling fee."

Wednesday, the three Ramos men waited - as did their wives, children and
grandchildren - to learn how long they would live behind bars.

Juan, 34, and Ramiro Ramos, 42, were ordered to spend the next 12 years and
three months in a federal prison, after being convicted of conspiring to hold
hundreds of citrus workers as slaves, threatening them with violence and forcing
them to work off a $1,000 smuggling fee. Jose Ramos, 45, was ordered to spend 10
years and three months in prison for his part in the conspiracy.

The two brothers also have to give up central Florida real estate, cars and
other personal property and more than $3 million in proceeds from the illegal
venture, according to the U.S. Justice Department. In June, a jury determined
the property was used in the conspiracy to hold migrant farm workers in
involuntary servitude and supply those laborers to citrus growers.

Attorneys for the men said the sentence was severe and compared it to punishing
a corner drug dealer for the influx of drugs into this country.

"These people are now not only in prison, they are destitute," said Nelson
Rodriguez, Juan Ramos' attorney.

Fidelia Ramos, Jose Ramos' wife of 25 years, asked Moore for leniency, saying he
treated his workers "almost better than he treats me."

"This whole situation worries me a great deal," she told the judge. "I would
like to ask your honor if my husband could be released on probation because in
this manner he would help take care of me and my family."

But advocates said it was too late to ask for mercy. Mercy should have been
shown in the fields, they said.

Francisca Cortez, 20, a member of the Coalition for Immokalee Workers, an
advocacy organization that represents migrant farm workers in Florida, said,
"When we're exploited, we don't have any way to maintain our families either."

The coalition contacted the FBI after hearing about abuses by the Ramoses at
farms in Lake Placid.

"We'd heard in the community that something was happening that wasn't right,"
said Cortez, an agricultural worker.

After deductions for "debts," some workers were paid as little as $40 a week for
seven days' work, she said.

"They were scared, they felt threatened," she said. "They had them there as if
they were machines, working all the time."

During a four-week trial in June, witnesses testified that Ramiro and Juan Ramos
employed about 700 workers from January 2000 to June 2001, bringing them here
from Arizona in a trailer. Upon arrival they threatened the workers with
violence - sometimes waving guns - and told them could not leave until they paid
a $1,000 smuggling debt.

Attorneys said their clients were small parts of a larger machine.

"I hope the investigation doesn't stop here," Rodriguez said. "Grove owners
can't hide behind the faade of innocence. It's almost like they can't see
because they are closing their eyes."

kelly_wolfe@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              230 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 29, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

FAR EAST FARMWORKERS MIGHT BE HEADED HERE

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 448 words


Farm and nursery workers from Latin America and the Caribbean are a familiar
part of South Florida's labor force.

Workers from Thailand, Nepal, India and China could become part of the state's
agricultural work force, too, if a California company is successful in its
marketing efforts here.

Global Agri-Labor, a Los Angeles-based company that specializes in bringing in
workers under the federal H-2A guest worker program and handling all aspects of
that process, is meeting with growers in five Florida cities this week, said
Keisha Pickett, marketing director for the company, a division of Global
Horizons Manpower Inc.

A meeting is scheduled for 8 a.m. today in Belle Glade at the Palm Beach County
Agricultural Extension Office.

"Florida is a huge agricultural market. We're expanding our horizons," Pickett
said. "We focus mainly on Thailand and bring in Thai workers. We have had great
experience with them."

An estimated 52 percent of the nation's 1.6 million farmworkers in the United
States are undocumented aliens, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. Under
H-2A, foreign workers can enter legally to work for as long as 10 months.
Employers must provide free housing and transportation.

"We can bring you legal people who will do the job quicker and faster," Pickett
said.

Greg Schell, managing attorney at the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake
Worth said Wednesday that Florida growers have not experienced a worker shortage
this year but are worried about what the future holds if there is a crackdown on
undocumented workers.

"There is a need for more legal workers," Schell said.

For the fiscal year 2002, 1,426 H-2A workers were certified to work in Florida,
Schell said. Most of them were brought in for the citrus industry.

Another catch is that an employer who uses H-2A workers must pay them, and all
other employees, at least the average farm wage for the state, which is $7.82 an
hour, Schell said.

Kevin Morgan, associate director of the Florida Farm Bureau Federation's
agricultural policy division, said that in general H-2A has not been successful
for Florida growers because of crops that must be picked quickly when they are
ripe.

"You can't wait 45 days on the government to do the processing," Morgan said.

Osceola County citrus and vegetable grower Will Hyatt said he brought in 135
H-2A workers from Mexico a few weeks ago to harvest the last of this year's
crops. It's the fourth time in three years Hyatt has used H-2A workers.

"I've had a hard time finding reliable domestic labor. Migrant workers won't
stay near the end of the season even if you have plenty of work," he said.

susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              231 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 7, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN LABOR GETS NO HAND, NO HAND UP

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 709 words


I like to show up at career days in the public schools and survey the kids.

"How many of you are interested in becoming doctors?" I'll ask a class.

This will set off a flurry of hand-waving.

"OK, how about lawyers? How many of you are thinking about a law career?"

More hand-waving.

"How about business? Who wants to run a business?"

More hands.

I ask about careers in law enforcement, firefighting, government, newspapers or
science and get a response for each.

Then I ask this: "How many of you would like to pick tomatoes for a living, or
plant celery, or work in the farm fields?"

No hand has been raised. Ever.

"OK, then. How about roofing. How many of you would like to be roofers?"

Again, no hands. Just puzzled looks.

"How about chambermaids? How many of you would like to clean the toilets and
make the beds at hotels?"

Nothing.

Americans pick careers, not tomatoes

"Well, we've got problems then. How are we going to put vegetables on our table?
Who's going to fix the roof when it leaks? Are we going to have dirty toilets
when we go to hotels? Who's going to do these jobs if you won't?"

Of course, I tell them that the answer is immigrants.

Without foreign labor - legal and illegal - Florida's agriculture, construction
and service industries would collapse. Not only do Americans not want to fill
these jobs, they would prefer to ignore them altogether.

When schools hold their career days, they don't set up tables and booths in the
gym for farm workers, maids and roofers to tell kids about their work. It would
be a hard sell.

Students who consider a career in tomato-picking should be willing to accept a
life expectancy of about 49 years, the average for U.S. farm workers. Pickers
would tell kids how they earn about $150 a week, without insurance or benefits.
How they often work 12-hour days in the Florida heat without overtime pay,
earning maybe 50 cents for each 32-pound bucket they fill. They would say that,
in real terms, their wages haven't improved in 30 years.

American parents do not see tomato-picking as a proper career path for their
children, no matter how essential it is to the industry. Yet each year,
thousands of immigrants come to do it and also to fill the other low-wage jobs
that otherwise would not get done. And each year, as more American kids head off
to college with higher career goals and expectations, the work force grows more
educated, and the U.S. economy opens more slots at the bottom for foreign labor
to fill.

Labor, security can coexist

The Census Bureau puts the number of undocumented immigrants in the United
States at about 8.5 million, about half of them from Mexico. In South Florida,
Mexicans are the fastest-growing part of the Hispanic population. Many risk
their lives to come here. The death toll of migrants crossing the Arizona border
this year will break all records, partly because of an unusually hot summer and
partly because of the government's increased patrolling. The post-9/11 call for
tighter border control has forced migrants into the most dangerous routes and
also into truck trailers and railroad cars, sometimes with tragic consequences.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., is sponsoring a bill that would recognize the reality
that the country has too long denied: The economy needs immigrant labor. Sen.
McCain's proposal would create a guest-worker program under which foreigners
could enter the United States legally to fill jobs, then return home. The bill,
cosponsored by Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, also Republicans from Arizona,
would allow migrants with a three-year work record to apply for residency.

Sen. McCain believes the nation needs a guest-worker program that offers a legal
path to foreigners who want to come here to pick tomatoes, fix roofs and clean
hotel rooms - or teach quantum physics, for that matter. Congress will consider
his bill this month, and the beginning of a national debate should follow.

Americans need to take an honest look at their ideas about immigration and
security, too many of which are unrealistic or, worse, hypocritical.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com. Randy's Schultz's column will return next Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              232 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 30, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ALWAYS LOW PRICES APPLIES EVEN MORE TO THE LABOR

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 432 words


The federal agents who arrested illegal janitors last week during an
early-morning sweep of Wal-Marts sliced only crust off the tip of an iceberg
that is America's deliberate ignorance of how much we depend on foreign workers
to do our labor.

The agents found 245 illegals. They were expecting 300 at the 61 stores they
hit. Wal-Mart alone has 3,142 stores in the United States. It's the 800-pound
gorilla of retailing, and the company's cost-shaving methods are models for its
suppliers and competitors. Add hotels, theaters and other public places, and
there's a huge job market for Mexicans, Czechs, Mongolians - the raiders picked
up 22 of the last - and other noncitizens willing to clean for $6 an hour.

"We absolutely do not tolerate the use of illegal workers," said a Wal-Mart
spokeswoman, and the world's largest retailer is sticking to her story. The
company said last week that it will check the citizenship status of all 1.1
million employees. It blames outside contractors for the illegal workers.
Floridians know all about outside contractors. They're always responsible when a
broken-down bus full of farm laborers has an accident.

Checking all of Wal-Mart's hourly employees, let alone those of its contractors,
will be difficult, with 44 percent turnover each year. Low pay makes turnover
high. The average full-time clerk makes $13,686, which would leave a family of
three $800 below the federal poverty line, Business Week reported. Wal-Mart must
not expect its employees or its suppliers' employees to spend very much in its
stores.

If Wal-Mart executives thought about what they pay outside contractors, they
could have guessed that the contractors cut corners in ways they "absolutely do
not tolerate." It is corporately responsible for making sure Wal-Mart does not
overpay for goods; isn't it morally responsible for being sure it doesn't
underpay for services? The feds didn't say that they expect more developments
from last week's raids, but they did leak that a grand jury is looking at
material involving someone described as a "mid-level" Wal-Mart manager.

Americans won't accept dirty jobs at Third World wages, but they revel in the
low prices those wages make possible. If anything, they want tight borders. But
leaving people who take the dirty jobs in a legal dead zone makes it easier for
employers to exploit them. The federal raids came at the end of overnight
janitorial shifts. Had the feds struck at the start of the shift, eager shoppers
would have noticed dirty floors, but that's not the biggest mess in the
workplace.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              233 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 9, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

WHOEVER HIRED ILLEGAL COUPLE CAUSING BURDEN TO TAXPAYERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 148 words


Ron Wiggins' column Oct. 26 ("Illegal couple struggles to get infant help while
staying under radar") was excellent. But I think the newspaper should find out
who is hiring the illegal workers, because paying no workers compensation
premiums and other required costs just adds burdens to taxpayers.

Also, I'm sure local ordinances cover how many people may live in an apartment
such as the one they share, building conditions, etc. As stated in the column,
people came by to pick them up, so someone is aware of their conditions.

The young couple would make good citizens, probably better than those who hire
them. They came here to work and have done so. I would like to see the people
who hired them help pay for the baby's medical bills. The inspectors of whatever
authority regulates conditions where they live should be looking for new jobs.

BEN JUHL

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              234 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 9, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 965 words


MIGRANT WORKER: Cayetano de Jesus

"I make 45 cents for picking a 32-pound bucket of tomatoes," he says, which is
1.4 cents per pound. "But when I go to the store, I pay sometimes $2 for a pound
of tomatoes."

De Jesus says he has no idea what labor contractors make, "but since they are my
bosses, I assume they make more than I do."

As for growers: "I've never met a grower. There was a guy who told me once he
was an owner, but I'm not sure. He spoke Spanish, and I don't really think he
was."

De Jesus knows who the buyers are - Publix, McDonalds, Tropicana. He sees their
stores, restaurants and products but has no idea how much of the profit is
theirs. He does know that at all levels "bosses" say they can't afford to pay
more.

Asked how the system could be improved, he shrugs. "I guess only the president
of the United States could change all this."

LABOR CONTRACTOR: Juan Pablo Flores

"It's always the contractors and growers who get blamed for bad conditions, and
it isn't like that," says Flores. "The price paid to pickers for large tomatoes
has stayed the same for about 15 years, but it has stayed the same to
contractors as well. Inflation has been maybe 3 percent per year, so we've seen
prices go up 45 percent or so and we make the same rate.

As for growers, "They have to pay to prepare the land, laying the plastic, tying
the tomatoes, fertilizing, picking, hauling, packing . . . and they have to
clean the land at the end. They have a lot of overhead."

He says large buyers - such as supermarkets - also would have trouble raising
what they pay growers. "You do that, and foreign countries will have their
product in here and undersell you."

Flores called for better inspection of work sites to end abuses of workers. He
says some contractors cheat workers out of hours. Some of his own employees told
The Post that Flores is guilty of that as well, but he denies it.

He figures the only way workers will earn more is if consumers agree to pay more
in order to improve the lives of migrant workers.  "I'll tell you this, these
people work harder than any American in the U.S."

GROWER: John Thomas

"There should be an organized effort to allow people to sign up and come in to
work in this country," says Thomas, 83, who came to Florida in 1945, when land
"was very, very cheap."

Now Thomas Produce Co. is the largest vegetable grower in the state, with 15,000
acres in four counties, including Palm Beach.

"You have farmers selling to developers now," he says. "You can count Florida
tomato farmers of any significance on your fingers."

Thomas relies on contractors to hire pickers, and, in the wake of labor
violations, a Thomas compliance supervisor monitors those contractors' payrolls
and practices.

"It's a tough business . . . The labor force is changing," Thomas said. "We
worked at keeping as many Americans working for us as possible. (Immigrant
labor) was a fill-in thing in the beginning, and pretty quick it became the main
source."

PROCESSOR: Tropicana

"Some of the abuses in the employment of migrant labor certainly trouble us,"
says Tropicana communications director Kristine Nickel. "We are working with our
own growers to prevent abuses."

Tropicana took notice after U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore sentenced three
citrus contractors to lengthy prison terms last year for enslaving migrant
workers.

"We believe our growers have good intent in terms of how workers are treated,
but we are investigating," says Nickel, who notes that Tropicana, which buys a
third of Florida's citrus, does not own groves and does not employ pickers.

State and federal laws prohibit the abuses that surfaced in the 2002 case, "but
it seems that the feds and the state don't have the resources to enforce the
laws . . . We are not police in terms of the migrant issue."

Nickel said Tropicana has a clause in its contracts with Florida growers that
says if a grower is "implicated in migrant labor abuse," Tropicana "would
suspend our contract with them."

AGRICULTURE COMMISSIONER: Charles Bronson

"A lot of people are acting as if the farmer is the one causing all the problems
. . . We have to come up with a national solution, we know we have to do that."

The 54-year-old rancher and former GOP state senator says the best way to
protect workers "is to give them the papers to start with."

"The problem we're having, quite frankly, a lot of the people are so afraid of
being sent back that they're not willing to come forward and let us know what's
going on. We know we have to protect those who are trying to make a living in
this state. We don't handle labor issues . . . because that's not our purview .
. . If our people think there is a violation that's not in our jurisdiction,
we'll contact the appropriate agency."

FARM WORKER ADVOCATE: Lucas Benitez

"The worker carries all the weight of the system," says Benitez, 27, a leader of
the Coalition of Immokalee Workers who shared the 2003 Robert F. Kennedy Human
Rights Award for exposing slavery.

"The contractors are the immediate employers of the workers, but don't care what
the workers make, only what they themselves make." He says that is, in part,
because contractors have also seen little or no increase in pay in years.

"As for the growers, they are only interested at harvesting at their lowest
cost, and they don't care about the human cost. They don't care if there is
slavery. Most times, growers don't even know their workers."

But Benitez says the greatest responsibility for low wages and no benefits lies
with large buyers, in particular restaurant chains, such as Taco Bell and
McDonalds, and supermarkets. "These industries have not taken the responsibility
to know the conditions of the workers who supply products to their businesses."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORTPART 3 OF 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4 C); 1. Cayetano de Jesus (mug) 2. John Thomas (mug) 3.
Kristine Nickel (mug) 4. Lucas Benitez (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              235 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 14, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

END AMERICA'S DENIAL OF FARM LABOR REALITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 1141 words


It is politically fashionable to describe America's migrant farmworkers as an
invisible population. But Floridians know better.

We find them everywhere - strolling along our streets, shopping in our
supermarkets, attending our churches, taking their children to schools. We look
at them daily as they ride in sagging vans or old, bright-colored school buses
lumbering to the fields.

Migrants really aren't living invisible lives. Floridians just prefer that they
would. We want their labor, but we don't want to hear their stories. We turn
away to avoid knowing too much. For all the changes the state has gone through
during the past half-century, the denial about migrant workers has remained
remarkably constant - as have the abuses they endure to meet our needs.

For three days last week, The Palm Beach Post offered readers an extraordinary
look at the lives of migrants with the "Modern-Day Slavery" series. It was a
rare and unsettling examination of invisible people in plain sight.

Florida's $62 billion agriculture industry relies on more than 122,000 migrant
workers to work the fields each year. Hypocrisy is a bumper crop when it comes
to the nation's dependence on foreign labor and immigration. American workers
won't take the backbreaking jobs that pay an average of $7,500 a year, so
imported farmworkers are essential. Yet the government provides no legal way for
them to come. About 90 percent of migrants are Mexicans, and many risked
perilous border crossings only to be stigmatized on arriving.

On one hand, the nation welcomes them for their work; on the other, it considers
them lawbreakers. As shameful as any injustice in the fields is the government's
incoherent, immoral immigration policy that has left thousands dead in the
Arizona desert on their way to jobs we wanted them to fill.

An evolving U.S. work force that grows ever more educated and sophisticated will
continue to demand foreigners to fill menial positions. Consider that in 1950,
only 6.2 percent of all adult Americans had four-year college degrees. By 2000,
that number had risen to 25 percent. The percentage of U.S. high school
graduates who immediately go on to college rose to 63.3 percent in 2000, up from
49 percent 30 years ago. Parents do not send their children to college so they
can prepare for a career picking tomatoes.

It is a well-circulated misconception that migrant workers pay no taxes and live
on handouts. While they place added burdens on schools and social services,
migrants pay most of the same taxes as U.S. citizens, yet don't collect benefits
from those taxes. Many work with fake or stolen Social Security numbers and pay
each week into a fund from which they never will draw returns. Taxes collected
on $375 billion in wages for workers with mismatched Social Security numbers
languish in the federal Treasury. Only 6.6 percent of migrants used food stamps
in 2000, compared with 18 percent in 1993. Migrant workers pay their landlords'
property taxes. They pay sales taxes and gasoline taxes. Federal earned income
credits for the working poor go unclaimed. The National Immigration Forum, a
Washington-based think tank, reports that the typical immigrant pays $80,000
more in taxes over a lifetime than he receives in government benefits.

Twenty-two federal and state agencies are charged with regulating farm practices
in Florida, but the state ranks among the worst for abuse of workers, The Post
report found. Five cases of slavery have been uncovered and prosecuted in the
state during the past six years. In St. Lucie, DeSoto and Collier counties,
labor contractors held workers in involuntary servitude and threatened them with
beatings if they resisted. Authorities have broken prostitution rings of teenage
migrant girls held against their will.

Growers insulate themselves from responsibility by using the subcontractors.
Liability for accidents and injuries never gets past the middlemen, a
decades-old scheme of deferred accountability. Growers wash their hands of
abuses and point fingers at the usual suspects, the fall guys for hire.

The Legislature's response has been just as disgraceful. Even modest reforms -
such as a bill that would prevent employers from forcing workers to rent
shovels, bags and gloves - had to overcome opposition from the agriculture
lobby. This year, legislation that would inform workers about pesticide use
never got out of committee. An anti-slavery bill didn't even get that far. How
can a bill prohibiting slavery meet such resistance? A good question for the
House Agriculture Committee, half of whose 14 members are farmers.

Abuses are embedded so deeply in so many layers of Florida life that it becomes
too tempting to regard reform efforts as futile. The state certainly needs help
from a federal government whose inability to work with Mexico on border issues
fosters this irrational, deadly system. The nation needs a guest-worker program
that allows migrants to come here legally and safely, work the season, then
return home. But Americans first must overcome the 9/11 paranoia that too often
confuses all foreigners with terrorists. Technological advances make it more
possible than ever to identify migrants and track them. The right guest-worker
program actually would enhance security.

At the local level, governments should enforce housing codes and authorities
should prosecute crimes against migrant workers as if they were crimes against
U.S. citizens. Progressive growers, such as Jay Taylor and A. Duda & Sons, have
taken it upon themselves to change for the right reasons. They provide benefits,
safe transportation and housing for workers. The Coalition of Immokalee Workers
is waging a national campaign to persuade Taco Bell to pay one penny more for
each pound of tomatoes and let the penny pass to pickers. That tiny change would
double their earnings and give them a living wage.

But the greatest challenge for Floridians is to look beyond stereotypical
encounters and see migrants as they are. When the state can replace denial with
honest acknowledgment of the lives they live and the contributions they make,
the Harvest of Shame will end - at last.

To Contact Your Lawmakers:

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham (202) 224-3041; bob_graham@graham.senate.gov

U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (202) 224-5274; senator@billnelson.senate.gov

U.S. Rep. Mark Foley (202) 225-5792; www.house.gov/foley

U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings (202) 225-1313; alcee.pubhastings@mail.house.gov

U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw (202) 225-3026; www.house.gov/shaw

U.S. Rep. Robert Wexler (202) 225-3001; www.house.gov/wexler

State Sen. Nancy Argenziano, chairwoman, Senate Agriculture Committee

(850) 487-5017; argenziano.nancy.web@flsenate.gov

State Rep. Marsha Bowen, chairwoman, House Agriculture Committee

(850) 488-2721; bowen.marty@myfloridahouse.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYInfo box at end of text.

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              236 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 16, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SLAVERY SERIES INFORMS PUBLIC; LET LAWS, ENFORCEMENT FOLLOW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 343 words


The Guatemalan-Maya Center Inc. deplores the criminal exploitation of immigrant
workers by Florida employees and the systemic corruption that makes the
government a party to abuses. We are indebted to the stalwart few lawyers and
advocates who have made defense of the powerless workers their task.
Congratulations to those at The Palm Beach Post whose series, "Modern-Day
Slavery," is an act of courage.

We await with anticipation the response of our citizenry and public servants.
The Legislature must, at the least, give Florida a law that holds employers
responsible for the just treatment of those who do their work. The state must
end the pretense that workers are employees only of the contractors and crew
bosses.

The state also must make a commitment to building an adequate structure of
enforcement agencies. Citizens of Palm Beach County should campaign for the
rebuilding of the Florida Rural Legal Service.

State enforcement and legal advocacy are indispensable to our Maya people, but
we also must develop internal leadership resources to defend our own interests.
Like most new immigrants, we tend to cluster by place of origin and language
group. Labor organizing and mass political consciousness in cooperation with
members of other groups and nationalities have been notably absent. Often, only
few individual advocates from outside our community are there to fight the many
abuses described in the series.

The Guatemalan-Maya Center Inc., through its educational and cultural programs,
is trying to help a new generation of Maya people to overcome these obstacles.

The abuses exposed by The Post are not unique to agriculture. Exploitation is
epidemic in landscaping, in the hotel business and in janitorial services. May
the newly informed people of Palm Beach County hasten the day when the
perpetrators will be brought to justice and the hardest-working among us will
see the just reward for their labors.

FRANK O'LOUGHLIN,

chairman

LUCIO PEREZ-REYNOZO,

executive director

Guatemalan-Maya Center Inc.

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              237 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 26, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

TWO CITIES REACHING OUT TO MIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: By THOMAS R. COLLINS Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


West Palm Beach and Lake Worth leaders have vowed to take sharper aim at
hardships faced by migrant workers within their borders, a problem that has
traditionally elicited little more than a wink and a nod.

Partly in response to The Palm Beach Post's recent series "Modern-Day Slavery,"
which described inhumane living and working conditions of migrants, West Palm
Beach officials said they plan more inspections of migrant housing. In Lake
Worth, Mayor Rodney Romano plans a regional summit on migrant-worker issues. And
he said he'll pressure state and federal lawmakers to pass laws granting migrant
workers some kind of legal status.

West Palm Beach Mayor Lois Frankel, who chaired a subcommittee on farmworker
housing when she joined the Florida House of Representatives in 1986, has
deployed city Planning Director Roxanne Manning to tackle the issue. Manning
said the city will step up inspections of migrant housing, crack down on
criminals who prey on vulnerable migrants and examine zoning issues more
closely. City staff members will get new assignments and training on migrant
issues.

"We need to let them know that we're here to serve them and not send them back
home," Manning said. The first meeting is scheduled for Jan. 6.

Frankel said it's not as simple as enforcing codes and kicking out migrant
workers from their crowded homes.

"In trying to help folks, you don't want to have a situation where they're
displaced and have no place to go," Frankel said. "You have a situation where
you're between a rock and a hard place."

Romano said The Post's series motivated him to finally act on a plan for a
summit on farmworker issues among local leaders, farm owners, and state and
federal legislators. He plans to organize the event probably by the spring.

He wants farm owners to assume a greater role in fixing the problem of
unlicensed, unsafe and unsanitary housing conditions.

"We've got to get to these farm owners and say, 'You've got to take some
responsibility,' " he said. He added "dormitory-style" housing for migrant
workers may be part of the cure for the unhealthy conditions many now endure.

Romano said he'll propose a resolution that lawmakers grant legal status to
migrant workers, a proposal similar to one recently floated by Secretary of
Homeland Security Tom Ridge. The resolution, scheduled for a vote in January,
will be sent to state and federal legislators and President George Bush, Romano
said.

"Just ask yourself what is in America's interest - I don't think the laws that
say these people should be rounded up and thrown out meet our needs," Romano
said. "The truth is we need them here and we need to have some realistic way to
have them here."

Communication barriers

Romano's city is an epicenter for farmworkers - it has a census count of 35,000
people but has an estimated migrant population of 5,000 to 10,000. The city
recently created a special code-enforcement team to tackle the toughest
migrant-worker housing cases.

"Lake Worth for the slumlords has been like Dodge City," Romano said.

Romano and Frankel have some support among their constituents.

Jack Hairston - who lives in West Palm Beach's Northwood neighborhood, which has
a high concentration of migrant workers - takes Guatemalan farmworkers to doctor
appointments and helps them fix problems their hapless slumlords won't.

More frequent code and health inspections are crucial, he said. That involves
bridging a serious language and cultural gap.

"All of the city and county departments need to have extremely fluent
Spanish-speaking people," he said. "We need to be able to educate so that they
know what needs to be done in America."

He offered this example of a basic problem: Many migrant workers are responsible
for paying their electric bill, but can't read the paperwork because it's in
English. The result: Every month, they have to pay not only their regular bill,
but also a late fee and a reconnection charge.

The Palm Beach County Health Department recently created a cultural
communications task force to brainstorm for ways to get its message across to
minority communities.

The task force, which first met in October, has recommended using pictures and
cartoons, communicating through church leaders, and having students relay
messages to Mom and Dad since they usually speak better English than the
parents.

Agency resources limited

That's about the best the department can do with its resources, health
department director Dr. Jean Malecki said. Inspecting every dwelling licensed as
migrant housing twice every 12 weeks, as required by state law, is "not
realistic based on the resources we have," she said. The department inspects
migrant housing about twice a year, Malecki said. The health department gets a
majority of its money from the state and federal governments.

Even if housing problems are ferreted out, that will only do so much.

"You can tear down the building," she said, "but you don't tear down the
society."

thomas_collins@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: MODERN-DAY SLAVERY

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYAn occasional seriesRan all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              238 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 29, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

FATE OF MAN AFTER CROSSING BORDER FROM MEXICO BAFFLES HIS SONS HERE

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1206 words


It was an anxious day in April 2002. Arturo and Mario, two young Mexican
brothers who live in West Palm Beach, waited to hear from their father, who was
being smuggled across the hazardous Arizona desert into the United States.

They hadn't seen their padre, Tomas Ocampo, 44, in 13 months. That was when they
had abandoned their small hometown in rural Mexico and made the risky desert
crossing themselves. A cot was ready for him in their cramped apartment, which
they shared with other undocumented workers. They would help him find a job,
possibly at the same construction firm where they worked as simple laborers.

The jobs didn't pay much. Still, with the three of them employed in the United
States, they would be able to send more money home to support their large,
struggling family.

But when the brothers finally received word by phone from the border, it would
shake their already precarious lives.

"He's lost. He got lost in the desert," said Jorge, 27, one of two family
acquaintances who traveled with the father. (All three of the men interviewed
for this story used assumed names because they are undocumented.)

Jorge now lives in the same apartment as the brothers, in a bed the father might
have occupied. He recalls how he, Ocampo and a third man from their home village
had joined a larger group of Mexicans being smuggled across the border on the
night of April 23. They expected to walk for three nights and then get picked up
by other people-smugglers and transported to Florida.

Two hours after sneaking across the border, the travelers were forced to hide in
bushes to evade Border Patrol overflights. Jorge said they stayed under cover
for about a half-hour and then the "coyotes," the smugglers guiding them,
advised that the coast was clear and they could proceed.

But when everyone else emerged from under the mesquite bushes, Ocampo was gone.

"He was hiding no more than a few feet from me," Jorge said. "We didn't speak at
all and I started to fall asleep. I didn't hear him move to go to the bathroom,
and I didn't see anything. It was very dark. When it was time to move, he just
wasn't there."

Jorge said he and the other friend made the group wait another half-hour while
they searched for Ocampo in the surrounding scrub. After the coyotes insisted on
proceeding, Jorge said, the two of them stayed behind and searched some more but
didn't find Ocampo.

They finally picked a place to sleep and the next morning they looked in the
daylight.

"If something had happened to him, if he had a heart attack or something, we
would have found him, but he just wasn't there," Jorge insisted.

They finally walked east until they reached an Arizona highway. Eventually they
turned themselves in to the Border Patrol and were sent back that night to
Mexico.

"We waited on the other side at a hotel, but he didn't come," Jorge said. "We
called back to our hometown the next day, but he hadn't showed up there either.
We went back home. He never did come back or call."

The third man, whose name is Jesus, could not be reached for comment, but family
members said his account was the same as Jorge's.

According to his traveling partners, Tomas Ocampo had disappeared into thin air
in the Arizona desert.

About two months later, a cousin from California, Pedro Rojo, traveled to
Arizona and northern Mexico trying to track down Ocampo. He didn't find him, but
the trip produced some hope.

"I showed his photo around, and one person told me he thought he had seen him
begging in the central bus station in Nogales, on the Mexican side," Rojo said.
"We started to think that maybe he had a minor stroke or a case of amnesia."

Something else happened that made that seem very possible: According to the
brothers, the Mexican consulate in Nogales checked with the U.S. authorities.
They found that a man with the same name and almost exact birth date as Ocampo
had been captured by the Border Patrol in the Arizona desert on April 24 and had
been repatriated to Nogales.

Ocampo's birth date is Dec. 21, 1957. The birth date listed was Dec. 12, 1957,
suggesting that numbers may have been transposed.

"It was too big a coincidence to think it was someone else," said Arturo, 24.
"So we figured he had to be alive, but just sick somewhere."

A sister in Mexico submitted announcements to Mexican television. The family
posted fliers in the border region with a photo of Ocampo and their phone
numbers in the United States, asking anyone who had seen him to call. Two
journalists from The Palm Beach Post found a flier still hanging in a Mexican
church in July this year.

But all attempts to find Ocampo have failed.

"I even went to a psychic here in West Palm Beach," said Arturo. "I was
desperate. I ended up paying her $800. She told me some things. She said my
father had done some drinking, and that was true, my father likes to drink. But
he didn't drink on that trip. The money went for nothing. In the end, you just
feel helpless."

The incident has caused not only anguish but suspicions in the family. Rojo, the
California cousin, said he does not believe that the two men who traveled with
Ocampo are telling the whole truth about what happened that night in the desert.

"I'm not saying they killed him," Rojo said, "but something happened out there
that they don't want to talk about. Maybe they left him behind at some point. In
the beginning they had different versions. First they said they didn't look for
him, then they said they did. For some reason they don't want to tell the
truth."

Rojo also pointed out that Jorge ended up with between $100 and $200 of money
that Ocampo had been carrying when he left home. Jorge admitted that but said
Ocampo asked him to hold it for him after police at checkpoints on the Mexican
side took some of his money from him.

As for the brothers, they prefer not to doubt Jorge.

"He has been my best friend since I was a young boy," Arturo said. "I don't
think he would lie to me, and he had no reason to harm my father."

Jorge said he was telling the truth. "I've told what I know," he said. "I have
no reason to lie. I don't know what happened to him."

At least 398 people have died trying to cross the desert from Mexico in the past
year, according to the Mexican government. Border Patrol officers say they
believe the number is much higher because many bodies are never found in that
vast wilderness.

Mexican authorities also say that in an increasing number of cases Mexican
families are losing contact with loved ones who were last heard from in the
border area, preparing to cross.

"These families don't know whether their relatives made it or didn't," said
Leslie Vargas, an official from Oaxaca state who investigates disappearances and
tries to reunite families. "They don't know if their family members are alive or
dead, and that is very painful."

The sons of Tomas Ocampo say they have not given up hope. Through an
intermediary, a photo of Ocampo was sent to the Border Patrol in Tucson, and the
family is waiting to hear if it matches the photo of the man picked up 20 months
ago.

"I still don't believe he's dead," Arturo said. "I have the feeling that he's
somewhere."

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: MODERN-DAY SLAVERY< An occasional series

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W & C); 1. (B&W) GARY CORONADO/Staff Photographer Jorge, (from
left) Arturo and Arturo's brother Mario (not their real names) all came to West
Palm Beach from Mexico. Arturo and Mario's father has been missing since two
hours after he crossed the border with Jorge., 2. Tomas Ocampo: Entered U.S.,
disappeared.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              239 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       April 2, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

SEVEN DEAD IN I-95 CRASH 12 MIGRANT WORKERS ALSO HURT AS VAN FLIPS

BYLINE: By KELLY WOLFE and WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 907 words


Seven migrant workers were killed and 12 more were injured late Thursday
afternoon when the Econoline van they were riding in struck the median on
southbound Interstate 95 and rolled over four times, just short of the
Okeechobee exit that was supposed to take them back to Fort Pierce, officials
said.

All 19 were ejected from the van during the crash, about 5:50 p.m. just west of
Fort Pierce. The van was southbound when what witnesses described as a
"distracted driver" drove onto the median, officials said.

Although investigators moved quickly to transport the injured to area hospitals,
family members began arriving while the dead still lay on the ground.

"It is so awful to look around, there's just bodies - dead bodies all over the
ground - covered with white sheets and I have no idea who they are," Ruben
Vargas said through an interpreter.

Vargas said he is the brother-in-law of the van's driver, Salvadore Leon.

"We came as fast as we could, we want to know how he is, if he even made it,"
Vargas said.

Florida Highway Patrol troopers said Leon survived the crash and was transported
by helicopter to Holmes Regional Medical Center. But Holmes Regional said Leon
was not a patient.

All of the men in the van were believed to be Mexican immigrants. The accident
was yet another in a long line of fatal wrecks involving immigrant workers. In
1990, 10 workers from the same family were killed when a van ran off a remote
country road and plunged into a canal near Clewiston.

The FHP did not identify anyone involved in the crash Thursday night, saying
families should be notified first.

Officials did say the injured were all receiving medical attention at area
hospitals. Two were flown by helicopter, one to Holmes Regional and the other to
St. Mary's Medical Center in West Palm Beach. Two were driven to Indian River
Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach; five to Lawnwood Regional Medical Center and
Heart Institute in Fort Pierce; and four to St. Lucie Medical Center in Port St.
Lucie.

Two of the injured are in critical condition, said FHP Lt. David Timothy Frith,
"barely hanging on."

Vargas said Leon has a wife and two children in Mexico.

"I have to call her, and that call will be difficult to make because this is
very grave news," Vargas said.

The scene shocked even hardened investigators, Frith said.

"I haven't seen six fatalities in one vehicle in my entire career," Frith said.
"This is really heart wrenching for all of us."

Motorists arrived before law enforcement officials, driving up on what looked
like a vision from hell.

"I saw bodies scattered all over the place, I knew it was bad," said Frank
Short, 49, who was driving an 18-wheeler from Stuart to Fort Canaveral.

The workers in the Econoline were returning from a day picking fruit in some
groves near Sebastian belonging to Circle H Citrus of Fort Pierce, officials
said.

The president of Circle H Citrus, George Pantuso of Indian River Drive, did not
return calls seeking comment Thursday night. Gov. Jeb. Bush recently appointed
Pantuso to the Florida Citrus Commission. His term begins June 1.

Short said his 23 years of driving a truck have made him wary of such vans of
workers. He often comes across accidents and said when vehicles are packed with
people - often unrestrained - it's only a matter of time before something goes
horribly wrong.

"It's upsetting, but it doesn't surprise me," he said.

The Econoline 350 is designed to hold 15 passengers, according to the van
maker's Web site.

Meanwhile, drivers were stuck for hours while I-95 was closed in both directions
in Fort Pierce. By 9 p.m., both southbound lanes from Indrio Road to Orange
Avenue had reopened, but northbound lanes were still closed.

The FHP is continuing to investigate the wreck.

The crash came less than four months after a Palm Beach Post series, "Modern-Day
Slavery," documented how Florida's migrant labor system abuses poor farm workers
from Mexico. The series noted how large numbers of farm workers are packed
tightly into vans or trucks and how some are killed or maimed in accidents.

Staff researcher Madeline Miller contributed to this story, along with
information from WPEC Channel 12.

wvash@pbpost.com

Previous incidents

Other fatal crashes involving migrant workers:

July 1995: Two Indiantown migrants die in Syracuse, N.Y., and 12 others are hurt
when the van they are riding in swerves off the road and hits a tree.

December 1993: Two Jupiter migrants die when the cargo van they are riding in -
which does not have enough seats to accommodate all 11 passengers - crashes.

October 1991: Two farmworkers die when the van they are riding in is struck by a
speeder who ran a red light.

October 1991: Seven Guatemalan sugar planters drown when their station wagon
blows a tire and runs into a canal at the Okeelanta Sugar Corp. near South Bay.

January 1990: Ten members of one family die when their van drives into a canal
off a remote county road south of Clewiston.

May 1963: Twenty-seven people drown when the bus they are riding in drives off
the road in Belle Glade. The deadly crash encourages Congress to pass the Farm
Labor Contractors Act requiring crew leaders be licensed and carry some
liability insurance.

PalmBeachPost.com
 Read Modern Day Slavery, The Post's special report on the plight of illegal
immigrants who risk their lives to make a living as Florida farmworkers. Click
on Special Reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & MAP (C); 1. PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Rescuers
work at the scene after 19 occupants were thrown from a van that rolled on I-95
west of Fort Pierce. The southbound van drove into the median, witnesses said.
2. MARK HEMPHILL/Staff Artist Site of crash.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              240 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 21, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

LANGUAGE OBLIGATION LIES WITH IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 69 words


The van accident in Fort Pierce involving 19 migrant workers was an absolute
tragedy. The statement that "these agencies have got to change" by Greg Wyatt in
the April 10 article "Language barriers complicated crash" triggers yet more
inquiries. For instance, do Hispanics and Latins have any obligation to learn
the primary language of this country that they live and work in?

JERRY EIBLER

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              241 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 24, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

SENATE BACKS BENEFITS HIKE FOR MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By PHIL GALEWITZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The Senate moved Friday to delete an old law that arbitrarily limits workers
compensation death benefits to Mexican residents.

Under an amendment tacked on a workers compensation "glitch bill" that was
tentatively approved, all non-resident immigrants, including those from Mexico,
would be entitled to the full $150,000 in workers comp death benefits instead of
only $75,000 under a current law that a court found unconstitutional in 1989.
Currently, only those from the United States and Canada get the full benefit.

The inequity was uncovered by The Palm Beach Post last month after nine migrant
workers from Circle H Citrus grove, died in a car crash west of Fort Pierce.

The bill, sponsored by Sen. Jeff Atwater, R-North Palm Beach, could win final
approval in the Senate today, and a companion measure is likely to get House
passage.

Gov. Jeb Bush and legislators worked behind the scenes after learning that an
obscure law remains on the books despite a 1989 Florida Supreme Court ruling
that it unfairly discriminates by restricting death benefits to Mexican
residents to $75,000, half of what Canadian and U.S. residents can receive.

The families of those killed in the crash last month will receive money from a
trust fund set up by a local radio station, La Gigante (AM 1330). The Fort
Pierce Migrant Workers Memorial Fund also collected about $100,000 for the
families.

La Gigante general manager Greg Wyatt said $10,000 will be given to each of the
nine families in Mexico. The rest of the money will go to the crash survivors.
The radio station plans to launch a separate bank account for the men injured in
the accident.

phil_galewitz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              242 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 5, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

WORKER VISA RUSH LIKELY FIRMS CAN TAP ONLY 65,000 H-1B VISAS FOR HIGHLY SKILLED

BYLINE: By DAVID SEDORE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 536 words


Memo to companies looking to hire highly skilled foreign workers: Think sooner
rather than later.

Last fall, Congress set off a run on H-1B visas - the kind commonly used to
bring in foreign engineers, mathematicians, software programmers and the like -
when it set the number of workers admitted under the program at 65,000, down
130,000 from the previous year.

Employers grabbed all 65,000 by February, the fastest ever in the 12-year
history of the program, according to the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration, one of the agencies that oversees it.

With the economy strengthening and Congress unlikely to raise the cap in an
election year, demand for H-1Bs is likely to grow. April was the first month
that companies could apply to bring in foreign workers during the upcoming
budget year, which begins Oct. 1.

"There's been a lot of talk about it," said Elizabeth Nicollson, deputy chief of
staff to U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach. "Obviously high-tech firms
want the cap extended, but the climate is probably not right for it."

That makes spring an especially important time for companies looking to use the
program.

The visa program generates more passion than its bureaucratically bland name
might suggest. It was launched during the 1991-92 federal budget year as a way
of allowing companies to fill highly skilled jobs with foreign workers when
Americans were unavailable.

Proponents argue the program is vital to high-tech industries such as chip
makers and software firms that need these workers to stay competitive.

But critics complain that companies abuse the program by hiring foreign workers
and paying them less even if American talent is available.

"It's something companies want," said Richard Seibel of Boynton Beach, who
chairs the Palm Beach section of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, a professional group, "and engineers don't."

Local users of the program include Siemens' Boca Raton facility, Office Depot,
FPL Group, Daleen Technologies, Sunbeam and IBM, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor. The Scripps Research Institute of La Jolla, Calif., also is
a major user of H-1Bs, but as a nonprofit research lab, it can bring in as many
workers as it needs.

Originally, Congress set the number of visas at 65,000, but during the late
1990s the cap was reset temporarily at 195,000, where it remained until last
fall.

Nicollson said there are proposals for reforming the program to limit abuses and
provide training so more Americans can compete for those jobs. Still, it is an
election year and unemployment is an issue.

"It backs up into the politics of the day," Nicollson said.

david_sedore@pbpost.com Foreign workers

Foreign workers

Here is a sampling of the companies that have used the H-1B program and the
number of applications they made between Oct. 1, 1996, and Dec. 3, 2003:

%%
Company              City            Number*

Siemens              Boca Raton      318

FPL Group            Juno Beach       70

Daleen Technologies  Boca Raton      30

IBM                  Boca Raton       20

%% *Number of H-1B workers employed at each company could be more or less than
numbers shown here.

Source: U.S. Department of Labor database.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); BRUCE R. BENNETT/Staff Photographer The computer and
software industries are among several that look to dip into the pool of foreign
workers each year.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              243 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 17, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

LOCAL BANK PUSHES PLASTIC AS SAFER WAY TO PAY MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JEFF OSTROWSKI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A local bank hopes to reduce muggings of migrant workers by replacing their
rolls of cash with ATM cards.

Fidelity Federal Bank & Trust of West Palm Beach aims to persuade farmers and
nurseries to replace old-fashioned paper paychecks with electronic deposits onto
ATM cards issued to workers.

If it's successful, the effort would bring "unbanked" workers into the age of
electronic deposits and withdrawals.

Migrant workers frequently are robbery victims because thieves know they carry
cash. Guatemalans are mugged so often that the crime has earned its own name:
"Guat-bashing."

"As long as they carry so much cash with them, they're going to have people
jumping them and robbing them," said Frank More, a Fidelity Federal assistant
vice president and pitch man for the payroll cards to farmers and nurseries.

No employers have yet agreed to issue the cards, but More said the concept
promises to help beleaguered workers.

Guatemalan and Mexican workers avoid banks for a variety of reasons. Many come
from villages without banks, and others have had unpleasant experiences with the
unstable banking systems in their countries. Also, illegal workers fear banks
will report them to immigration officials.

As a result, many workers take their paychecks to check-cashing stores that
charge high fees.

Because the workers walk away carrying a wad of cash, they are prime robbery
targets. A spate of robberies in recent months has focused attention on the
problem.

For example, a 22-year-old migrant worker was beaten and robbed of $460 in Lake
Worth, and a group of teens beat and robbed several Guatemalans in Port Salerno.

In developing its payroll card concept, Fidelity Federal has been working with
area police and immigrant groups such as the Organizacion Guatemalteca Maya
Quetzal.

The cards will be issued by Paychex Inc., a Rochester, N.Y., company that
administers payroll cards for small and medium-size businesses throughout the
country.

Bankers would have to teach workers how to use the cards, More said, but the
basics are simple. The cards work like an ATM card and can be used for free at
Fidelity Federal ATMs and at supermarkets, drug stores and other merchants that
take debit cards.

Workers would pay a $3 monthly fee and would have to pay fees for using other
banks' ATMs. Workers can't spend more than they have in their accounts, so there
would be no overdraft fees, More said.

Although the cards would help some workers keep their money safe, the effort
won't end the muggings altogether, said Lucio Perez-Reynozo, executive director
of the Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth.

"A lot of people are paid in cash, and they're paid by contractors,"
Perez-Reynozo said.

Still, officials say the program does have promise. After all, payroll cards
have gained momentum in other industries.

Among the employers offering them are Delray Beach-based Office Depot Inc. and
fast-foot chains McDonald's and Checkers.

And some auto dealers have begun to use them to pay commissions to salespeople.

jeff_ostrowski@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              244 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

           November 22, 2003 Saturday saturday FINAL EDITION edition

WAL-MART FIGHTS A PR PROBLEM AS BIG AS A SUPERCENTER supercenter

BYLINE: By PATTI BOND Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: BUSINESS, business, Pg. 13B 13B

LENGTH: 784 words words


The bash-Wal-Mart bandwagon is on a roll, with monster-truck tires.

Facing an illegal worker scandal, a simmering discrimination lawsuit and
community backlash against new stores, the world's largest retailer has
discovered that life as a corporate superpower has its downside.

Wal-Mart kicked off the year in the business media as the nation's "most admired
company," but it looks like it will wrap up 2003 as the "beast of Bentonville,"
as one recent magazine cover story put it.

The fall from grace has been fueled by several potentially huge labor disputes,
underscored last month by a federal immigration raid that rounded up 250 illegal
workers doing janitorial work for Wal-Mart contractors.  contractors.

Wal-Mart also faces what could be the largest gender discrimination lawsuit in
history over allegations that it pays and promotes women less than men.

Wal-Mart denies it mistreats women, and the chain says it will root out any
wrongdoing in the illegal worker probe. Company representatives agree, however,
that they've got a Wal-Mart-sized public relations dilemma on their hands.

"There's definitely a negative buzz out there," said Mona Williams, the
retailer's chief spokeswoman. "A lot of folks have started taking shots at us."

Wal-Mart, long known for a tight-lipped approach to PR, is rolling out feel-good
TV commercials starring happy workers and their families. It's also trying to
mend its standoffish ways with the media, where Wal-Mart's folksy,
made-in-America success story has taken a dark turn.

"Is Wal-Mart Too Powerful?" begs a recent BusinessWeek cover. Reporters who have
explored everything Wal-Mart, from its browbeating of suppliers to its muscle in
the U.S. economy, conclude that the retailer is a "cult masquerading as a
company."

Even Playboy piles it on this month in an essay titled "God and Satan in
Bentonville." Wal-Mart's no-frills Arkansas hometown, Bentonville, is described
as "the epicenter of retail's evil empire."

The media heckling grew so loud that Chief Executive Lee Scott was compelled to
respond during a recent analyst meeting.

"We can't change those people who are our detractors," Scott said. "Some of them
we can neutralize, but it is not our goal to make our detractors love us. . . .
What we have to focus on as a company is that we don't create the ammunition
that allows people to attack us."

Wal-Mart executives and board members were concerned about the retailer's
reputation even before the recent bad press. With the help of consultant
Fleishman Hillard, Wal-Mart launched a massive image research project 18 months
ago to find out what people think of the retail giant. Consultants polled
shoppers, employees, community officials and bankers.

"Overall, the feedback said that people generally thought very highly of
Wal-Mart, but there were a couple of areas in which we did not score as high as
we wanted to," Williams said.

Wal-Mart's ranking as a corporate citizen wasn't so hot, as far as giving back
to the community and keeping its parking lots clean, she said.

A more distressing discovery, though, came in Wal-Mart's reputation as an
employer.

"People felt we only had dead-end, low-wage jobs, and that's certainly not the
case," Williams said.

Anything related to labor is a big topic at Wal-Mart, given the ballooning size
of its workforce. At 1 million U.S. workers and counting, Wal-Mart employs more
people than any other company in the country, and it's second overall only to
the federal government.

The findings in the study were particularly touchy, given the allegations that
Wal-Mart holds women back when it comes to promotions. Wal-Mart has said that
its male-dominated management team reflects the higher number of applications
and postings it receives from men.

Williams said there's plenty of room to move up the ladder, noting that
two-thirds of Wal-Mart managers started as hourly employees.

The company's benefits plan also has been criticized for chintzy day-to-day
coverage, although Wal-Mart contends it offers more complete catastrophic
medical benefits than most corporations.

So far, there's no indication that Wal-Mart's image woes are cutting into the
bottom line, and analysts don't expect they will.

The company's shares trade at around $55, up about 7 percent this year. The
retailer will blow past $247 billion in annual revenue this year, and profit is
rising at a consistent clip. Despite slowing growth, revenue is up 11 percent
this year, compared with a year ago. Profit is up 14 percent.

Wal-Mart plans to open more than 300 U.S. stores in its next fiscal year, plus
another 140 international stores, pushing it well past the 5,000 mark.

pbond@ajc.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); POST FILE PHOTO Shoppers at the Boynton Beach Supercenter,
which opened in January 2001.  2001.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              245 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 18, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

NO IMMIGRANTS, NO STRONG ECONOMY

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 674 words


Few words in the political lexicon come wrapped in as much emotion as immigrant.
It can evoke strong feelings of ancestry and heritage at one end of the
spectrum, or anger and fear at the other.

Republicans and Democrats this month have made extravagant cases for their love
of diversity. Often, they do so with stories of brave parents and grandparents
who arrived here decades ago in search of the American dream.

The immigration of other eras is romanticized as if it has no relation to that
of today. Immigration is always good when it is personal. Pat Buchanan will turn
misty-eyed at the mention of Irish farmers escaping the potato famine. But he
will find no parallel with Guatemalan farm workers who fled here to escape civil
war and today pick the tomatoes that sit atop his salad.

At the height of the political season, it is advantageous to talk about old
immigrants but ill-advised to go too deeply into current U.S. immigration
policy. For one thing, no one can hope to understand it. It is fraught with
double standards, duplicity and political expediency. I need not mention the
Elian Gonzalez case; you already know too much.

Misunderstanding colors the entire immigration picture, which is to be expected.
Cultural, racial and language barriers ensure that from the start. But most
Americans accept as reality distortions that are almost mythological. The
National Immigration Forum, a Washington-based organization that favors an
open-door policy, offers these facts against some prevalent misconceptions:

Most immigrants do not come to the United States illegally. Only about 25
percent do.

The percentage of foreign-born residents is not increasing. As of 1998, nearly
10 percent of the U.S. population was foreign-born, a decline from the early
1900s when the foreign-born population made up about 15 percent.

Many of the undocumented immigrants haven't crossed the borders illegally. In
fact, four of 10 enter legally with student, tourist, business or other
temporary visas, then lose their standing after the visas expire.

Immigrants do not drain the economy but provide an essential source of labor
and, over time, become net economic contributors.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a group that supports limits on new
arrivals, released a study that found immigrants were inflating the ranks of the
nation's uninsured. Based on an analysis of census data, the study found that
immigrant families make up 26 percent of the people without health insurance,
though they are only 13 percent of the U.S. population.

The analysis ignores what immigrants contribute. The current level of
immigration puts more into the Social Security system than it takes out;
estimates put immigrants' contributions at about $ 500 billion between 1998 and
2022. Over a lifetime, the typical immigrant pays $ 80,000 more in taxes than
benefits received, according to the NIF.

With the unemployment rate at a 30-year low and workers moving up the ladder to
better pay, who is left to fill minimum-wage jobs but the immigrants? One
federal forecast projects a shortage of 20 million workers by 2026. With native
birth rates declining, who will make up this deficit of labor, if not
immigrants?

Maybe perspectives on immigration are prone to distortion because America itself
is a word that is elusive to define. Those who see America most as a finite
place - with boundaries marked in latitudes and longitudes, a finished product
cut in stone like Mount Rushmore - will be troubled by new arrivals. But those
who view America first as an idea - as an evolving plan, a perpetual work in
progress that explores the boundaries of individual industry and imagination -
will embrace new members to share the experience.

While Democrats and Republicans are praising themselves for their diversity,
they might also acknowledge the sustaining flow that is making us us. The word
for it is immigration.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for

The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is dan_moffett@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              246 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 23, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

NEWEST ARTIFICIAL REEF;
DEATH SHIP TURNED INTO CRADLE OF LIFE

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: ABOARD FATHOMS O' FUN


A rusty ship that once ferried Chinese immigrants to their deaths blossomed into
a hub for aquatic life Tuesday just off Boca Raton.

Crowds of divers, environmental scientists and Coast Guard officers cheered as
the United Caribbean plunged into the Atlantic Ocean, 73 feet underwater and 1
mile offshore.

Palm Beach County's newest artificial reef had taken its final voyage after a
31-year existence that included a Chinese smuggling operation in 1993 that
killed 10 immigrants and a subsequent name change.

Just after its 11:51 a.m. sinking, divers surveyed the 145-foot freighter and
found schools of bar jack traversing the gangway and blue luminescent midnight
parrot fish controlling the bow. Eventually, algae, sponge, coral rock and other
sea life will compete for space on the vessel.

"I think the beauty and the diversity of the organisms that are going to move in
on it will soon upstage the ugly of the past," said Janet Phipps, an
environmental analyst with Palm Beach County and one of the first to dive into
the wreckage.

The Japanese-built vessel was known as the Golden Venture in 1993, when 300
Chinese refugees squeezed into the dirty, unsafe cargo ship for a four-month
journey from Kenya to New York. On June 6 of that year, Operator Lee Peng Fei
ordered the captain to run aground near Queens and to dispatch passengers into
rough, 53-degree waters.

Lee is serving a 20-year prison sentence for his role in the disaster. Surviving
passengers went to a federal detention center and about two-thirds of them have
since been deported. Others remain in the United States, either having received
legal residency or waiting for their cases to be resolved. The passengers had
each committed to pay $ 30,000 to the smugglers.

Officials at the Palm Beach County Environmental Resources Management office
began negotiating to buy the ship before they knew of its past. The office's
artificial reef program, which includes about 30 sunken ships along the county's
coast, has a federal Environmental Protection Agency permit to create several
reefs in the vicinity of the United Caribbean's new sanctuary, near the Broward
County line. Two ships - the Noula Express and the Sea Emperor - already have
been dumped in the 500-by-1,400-foot permitted site.

Environmentalists chose not to use explosives to sink the ship, fearing sea life
would die. Instead, contractors drilled eight 14-inch holes just above sea level
and plugged them before towing the boat from Miami Monday. When they were ready
to sink it, they unplugged the holes along with the ship's original sea valves,
letting water rush in. At the same time, crews from two nearby Coast Guard boats
sprayed water from large cannons.

Within 15 minutes, the boat's right side began slumping. Within 20 minutes, the
drilled holes were submerged.

Phipps, who with other divers was aboard the Fathoms o' Fun, remembered the dead
immigrants and wished the ship goodbye.

And the entire ship plunged to the bottom like a heavy anchor. A cloud of air
and sand created a light aqua footprint.

United Caribbean landed upright, something that makes it more accessible and
attractive to divers.

Juan Lopez - the owner of Export Terminal Inc. - sold, cleaned and sank the ship
for $ 60,000. Lopez, a Miami business man, acquired it two years ago after a
series of engine problems led importers who owned it previously to abandon it
with huge debts. Lopez said it wasn't worth repairing.

Some survivors of the 1993 disaster have been quoted in recent months opposing
the ship's fate. Lopez, a Cuban immigrant, said the ship's alternative resting
place would be a scrap yard.

Now, it's open to people and sea life, Lopez said. "If they want to see the
vessel, they can come in and dive it."

noah_bierman@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & 1 B&W, Photos by LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, 1. (C)
A tugboat guides the United Caribbean (top) to a site 1 mile off Boca Raton,
where it was sunk in 73 feet of water., 2. (C) The freighter carried 300 Chinese
immigrants from Kenya to New York in 1993. But 10 immigrants died when the ship
ran aground off Queens and passengers were forced overboard., WATERS/Staff
Photographer, Coast Guard officers spray water into the freighter Tuesday to
help it sink. Eight 14-inch holes were drilled in the ship's hull

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              247 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 25, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT KIDS SWIM IN DEEP END OF ENGLISH

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 408 words


Californians passed Proposition 227 two years ago with 61 percent of the vote.
The law ended bilingual education and ordered immigrant students to be immersed
in English, rather than exposed to it gradually as they continued to learn in
their native language, most often Spanish.

Liberal educators were furious. They claimed that children would be overwhelmed,
test scores would plummet, and worst of all, large numbers of immigrant families
would be driven away from the public schools. Conservative educators denied
charges that this was precisely their intent - to deny education to the
foreign-born - though for some, it clearly was.

Neither liberals nor conservatives, however, accurately anticipated the
resilience of the kids they were arguing about. Early test results have
surprised everyone. Students immersed in English not only learned but showed
dramatic improvement in reading and other subjects. Kids became fluent in
English after nine months, not six or seven years.

More testing will be needed to fully understand the implications of the change.
But for states such as Florida, where an exclusively English approach called
ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages) predominates, the news is
heartening.

California's experience reinforces the results of a Palm Beach County School
District study completed this year. After completing ESOL programs, about 4,000
immigrant students who learned English as a second language scored as well on
state tests as their native-born peers. Other studies have found that immigrant
children overwhelmingly prefer speaking English to their parents' language,
generally make better grades than American-born students and have lower dropout
rates.

Last year, the county's ESOL program taught English to more than 18,000 youths
who represented about 75 foreign tongues. Experiments with bilingualism
continue. Gove Elementary, a Belle Glade magnet school, and North Grade
Elementary in Lake Worth have offered dual-language options in which
Spanish-speakers and English-speakers are grouped in the same classes and learn
each other's language. Students can become bilingual by the fifth grade.

The program is made possible by a five-year, $ 1.25 million federal grant, a
fine example of how government really can help the schools: Give them money and
stay out of their way. Above all, adults should never underestimate the will and
ability of immigrant kids to learn.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              248 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 29, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

MOFFETT WRONG - HIGH IMMIGRATION UNTENABLE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 144 words


Dan Moffett's Aug. 18 column "No immigrants, no strong economy" lacks balance.
The United States once needed unskilled labor for its farms, railroads and
factories. Because of increased automation and the global economy, the need for
unskilled labor continues to drop.

An ever-expanding population is not an asset. The resources of the United States
are limited. The era of the wide open spaces and unlimited resources passed
decades ago. The effects of our present population are painfully evident -
degradation of the environment, school crowding and looming shortages of natural
resources. Even with technological advances, the country will have difficulty
dealing with our current population.

The country can no longer afford an expansive immigration policy and a policy
that winks at illegal immigration.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              249 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 30, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

NEW ECONOMY, SO NEW OUTLOOK ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 421 words


Nationally, unemployment is at a 30-year low, and in Iowa it's close to
disappearing. The robust economy and a steady decline in farming families have
left the state with a minuscule unemployment rate of 2 percent - and more jobs
than there are willing workers. Gov. Tom Vilsack has proclaimed a people
shortage, and to fix it, he proposes recruiting tens of thousands of immigrants.

It is a politically volatile solution. Only 2 percent of Iowa's population is
foreign-born, and many social adjustments will be required to implement Gov.
Vilsack's plan. Yet the consequences of doing nothing are risky. The state's
economy could crumble from the ground up if low-end jobs aren't filled.

Florida, despite large numbers of immigrants, is showing the same symptoms of
the national scarcity of unskilled labor. Nursing homes cannot find attendants.
Farmers are backing a new guest-worker program to ensure a steady stream of
migrants in the fields. In Palm Beach County, there is even a shortage of school
crossing guards. People who were once willing to take part-time, low-paying jobs
have moved up the economic ladder to better deals.

Gov. Vilsack's provocative proposal found an equally provocative echo last week
in ideas expressed by Vicente Fox. Mexico's president-elect believes his country
and the U.S. should work toward the long-term goal of opening their border. It
would take decades to happen, and then only if the wage gap closes between the
two nations. Economists believe that if Mexicans' incomes could increase to
about one-fifth of Americans', instead of the current one-ninth, migration would
slow enough to make an open border feasible.

Mr. Fox's call for an integrated North American community is remarkable in light
of the ongoing struggle against it. The U.S. Border Patrol last year apprehended
1.5 million Mexicans trying to enter, and yet the vast majority of the estimated
350,000 who ultimately made it here did so illegally. At least 100 have died
this year trying to cross.

Hypocrisy is still the biggest hole in the border. The mixed message Mexicans
hear clearly is that if they can slip through the Border Patrol, plenty of good
jobs await them in places like Iowa and Florida. Americans can't have it both
ways, recruiting immigrants and repelling them at the same time. A recession
could change things, but what Gov. Vilsack and President-elect Fox are saying in
their own ways is that it's time for frank talk and creative thinking about
immigration. They're both right.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              250 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              August 30, 2000, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HISPANIC RISE IN AREA TOPS NATION, STATE

BYLINE: Noah Bierman and Christine Stapleton, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1100 words


The Treasure Coast's Hispanic population grew rapidly in the 1990s - surpassing
an already significant national upswing, new census estimates show.

"You're leading the curve down there," said Larry Sink, the U.S. Census
statistician who compiled the annual figures dividing population growth by race,
age and geography.

The Hispanic population in Martin County grew by 68.9 percent in the '90s and
St. Lucie County's grew by 74.1 percent. Both counties' Hispanic growth outpaced
the state's (46.4 percent) and the nation's (38.5 percent).

Nationally, the Hispanic population grew from about 22.6 million to 31.3 million
during the past 10 years. Although states with traditionally high immigration
numbers - such as Florida, New York, California and Texas - continue to harbor
the bulk of the nation's immigrants, others such as Missouri and North Carolina
are attracting new immigrants with the promises of jobs, Sink said.

To derive the numbers, Sink took 1990 Census figures and updated them using
birth rates, death rates, migration patterns and data from the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service. Census 2000 figures, which should provide a more
accurate count, will be released in December and throughout next year. Officials
concede both sets of figures will probably undercount immigrants because many
fear deportation and elude counters.

Non-Hispanic whites still dominate the region's cultural tapestry, but their
percentages are declining steadily. Non-Hispanic whites accounted for 78.8
percent of St. Lucie County residents in 1990, but declined to 74.3 percent in
1999. Martin County's white non-Hispanic population went from 88.7 percent to
85.4 percent.

Non-Hispanic blacks accounted for 6.7 percent of the population in Martin and
18.6 percent in St. Lucie in 1999, up from 5.9 percent and 16.3 percent,
respectively, in 1990. The group, which totaled 41,608 in the two counties,
continues as the area's largest minority group.

While the Asian and Pacific Islander population grew from 3 percent to 4 percent
nationally in the 1990s, neither Martin nor St. Lucie county has more than 1
percent Asians.

Hispanics in the Treasure Coast believe their numbers are higher than the 18,000
projected by the census.

Sister Teresa Auad, director of the sewing cooperative InDios, said the census
records only those who had their papers and weren't afraid to register. During
picking season, the population is much higher, she said.

The Treasure Coast owes much of its development during the past decade to the
rise of the Hispanic population, Auad said.

"Martin County needed labor then," she said. "The labor force from Indiantown
has supplied labor as far away as Boynton Beach. They are landscapers, work in
construction, pick oranges and maintain the golf courses."

The census figures also show the area remains old. In fact, 22 percent of Martin
County residents and 16 percent of St. Lucie County residents were older than 79
last year. In 1990, 18 percent in Martin and 13 percent in St. Lucie were older
than 79.

Miami-Dade County, with well over 1 million Hispanics, continues to outpace the
state in immigration. But the new data reinforce the notion that many of these
residents are finding their way north.

Staff writer Matthew Doig contributed to this story.

noah_bierman@pbpost.com

christine_stapleton@pbpost.com

ON THE WEB

Census Bureau

www.census.gov

Hispanic population outpaces all

U.S. Census figures for Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties:

    PALM BEACH COUNTY

   Ethnic group   1990 Census                 1999 estimates
                  Pop.      Percent       Pop.       Percent
   White          686,586   78.9%         770,413     73.4%
   Black          105,061   12.1%         144,322     13.8%
   Native
   American         1,039    0.1%           1,418      0.1%
   Asian
   Pacific          8,915    1.0%          16,153      1.5%
   White
   Hispanic        62,153    7.2%         103,644      9.9%
   Black
   Hispanic         5,593    0.6%          11,441      1.1%
   Other
   Hispanic*          617    0.1%           2,029      0.2%
   Total          869,964    100%       1,049,420      100%

   ST. LUCIE COUNTY

   Ethnic group   1990 Census                  1999 estimates
                  Pop.        Percent      Pop.     Percent
   White          120,195     78.8%        135,051    74.3%
   Black           24,789     16.3%         33,800    18.6%
   Native
   American           308      0.2%            421     0.2%
   Asian
   Pacific          1,017      0.7%          1,884     1.0%
   White
   Hispanic         5,333      3.5%          8,899     4.9%
   Black
   Hispanic           691      0.4%          1,401     0.8%
   Other
   Hispanic*          118      0.1%            394     0.2%
   Total          152,451      100%        181,850     100%

   MARTIN COUNTY

   Ethnic group    1990 Census                 1999 estimates
                   Pop.        Percent      Pop.      Percent
   White           90,318      88.7%        100,899    85.4%
   Black            5,996      5.9%           7,808     6.7%
   Native
   American           137      0.1%             198     0.2%
   Asian
   Pacific            507      0.5%             949     0.8%
   White
   Hispanic         4,451      4.4%           7,143     6.0%
   Black
   Hispanic           242      0.2%             458     0.4%
   Other
   Hispanic*          199      0.2%             662     0.5%
   Total          101,850      100%             118,117 100%

*Hispanic-Asian and Hispanic-Native American


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (C, TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist, Census statistics, Martin
County's Hispanic population grew by 68.9 percent and St. Lucie County's by 74.1
percent in the 1990s.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              251 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 30, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

HISPANIC RISE IN COUNTY PASSES NATION

BYLINE: Noah Bierman and Christine Stapleton, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1138 words


Palm Beach County's Hispanic population grew rapidly in the 1990s - surpassing
an already significant national upswing, new census estimates show.

"You're leading the curve down there," said Larry Sink, the U.S. Census
statistician who compiled the annual figures dividing population growth by race,
age and geography.

The Hispanic population in Palm Beach County grew by 71.3 percent in the 1990s,
outpacing growth in the state (46.4 percent) and the nation (38.5), figures
show. Palm Beach County had 117,114 Hispanics in 1999, up from 68,363 in 1990.

Nationally, the Hispanic population grew from about 22.6 million to 31.3 million
during the past 10 years. Although states with traditionally high immigration
numbers - such as Florida, New York, California and Texas - continue to harbor
the bulk of the nation's immigrants, others such as Missouri and North Carolina
are attracting new immigrants with the promises of jobs, Sink said.

To derive the numbers, Sink took 1990 Census figures and updated them using
birth rates, death rates, migration patterns and data from the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service. Census 2000 figures, which should provide a more
accurate count, will be released in December and throughout next year.

Officials concede both sets of figures will probably undercount immigrants
because many fear deportation and elude counters.

Non-Hispanic whites still dominate Palm Beach County's cultural tapestry, but
their percentages are declining steadily. Accounting for about 79 percent of the
county's population in 1990, non-Hispanic whites totaled about 73 percent last
year.

Non-Hispanic blacks, who numbered 144,322 last year, continue as the county's
largest minority group, accounting for 13.8 percent of the population, up from
12.1 percent in 1990.

The Palm Beach Post and the Southeast Florida Center on Aging at Florida
International University used similar data last year to predict Hispanics would
become Palm Beach County's largest ethnic group in 2025.

While the Asian and Pacific Islander population grew from 3 percent to 4 percent
nationally in the 1990s, it jumped from 1 to 1.5 percent in Palm Beach County.

But residents don't need a demographer to see diversity. Cuban restaurants dot
South Dixie Highway in West Palm Beach. Cities publish hurricane preparedness
guides in two languages. The zoo's new exhibits borrow Latin American motifs.
Nearly a fifth of the students in the Palm Beach County School district are
Hispanic this year, up from 12 percent 10 years ago. Health clinics hire more
bilingual counselors.

"I would not change Palm Beach County for any other place," said Raul Rio, a
Cuban who came here 32 years ago. "The quality of life is good and it's
beautiful. We have everything we need here."

Rio, who chairs the Hispanic Political Committee, said his group believes Palm
Beach County has 150,000 Hispanics, or about 33,000 more than the census
projections.

The census figures also show the county remains old. In fact, 19 percent of Palm
Beach County residents were older than 79 last year. In 1990, 17 percent were
older than 79.

Miami-Dade County, with well over 1 million Hispanics, continues to outpace the
state in immigration. But the new data reinforce the notion that many of these
residents are finding their way north.

"I think that there is a quality of life issue," said West Palm Beach
Commissioner Al Zucaro, an immigration attorney. "Palm Beach County and West
Palm Beach offer an alternative to the Dade County experience."

noah_bierman@pbpost.com

christine_stapleton@pbpost.com

ON THE WEB

Census Bureau

www.census.gov

Hispanic population outpaces all

U.S. Census figures for Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties:

    PALM BEACH COUNTY

   Ethnic group   1990 Census                 1999 estimates
                  Pop.      Percent       Pop.       Percent
   White          686,586   78.9%         770,413     73.4%
   Black          105,061   12.1%         144,322     13.8%
   Native
   American         1,039    0.1%           1,418      0.1%
   Asian
   Pacific          8,915    1.0%          16,153      1.5%
   White
   Hispanic        62,153    7.2%         103,644      9.9%
   Black
   Hispanic         5,593    0.6%          11,441      1.1%
   Other
   Hispanic*          617    0.1%           2,029      0.2%
   Total          869,964    100%       1,049,420      100%

   ST. LUCIE COUNTY

   Ethnic group   1990 Census                  1999 estimates
                  Pop.        Percent      Pop.     Percent
   White          120,195     78.8%        135,051    74.3%
   Black           24,789     16.3%         33,800    18.6%
   Native
   American           308      0.2%            421     0.2%
   Asian
   Pacific          1,017      0.7%          1,884     1.0%
   White
   Hispanic         5,333      3.5%          8,899     4.9%
   Black
   Hispanic           691      0.4%          1,401     0.8%
   Other
   Hispanic*          118      0.1%            394     0.2%
   Total          152,451      100%        181,850     100%

   MARTIN COUNTY

   Ethnic group    1990 Census                 1999 estimates
                   Pop.        Percent      Pop.      Percent
   White           90,318      88.7%        100,899    85.4%
   Black            5,996      5.9%           7,808     6.7%
   Native
   American           137      0.1%             198     0.2%
   Asian
   Pacific            507      0.5%             949     0.8%
   White
   Hispanic         4,451      4.4%           7,143     6.0%
   Black
   Hispanic           242      0.2%             458     0.4%
   Other
   Hispanic*          199      0.2%             662     0.5%
   Total          101,850      100%             118,117 100%

*Hispanic-Asian and Hispanic-Native American


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (C, TIM BRITTON/Staff Artist, Census statistics, Palm Beach
County's Hispanic population grew by 71.3 percent in the 1990s.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              252 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 4, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN, ASIAN IMMIGRANTS KEEP BORDER PATROL BUSY OVER WEEKEND

BYLINE: Chris Barker, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 372 words


Dozens of immigrants came ashore and were captured by the U.S. Border Patrol in
two separate incidents Saturday and Sunday, authorities said.

At about 11:30 p.m. Saturday, at least 15 Haitians were ordered off a boat that
was about 75 yards from shore in the Palm Beach Inlet, the Border Patrol said.
All but two swam to shore in Palm Beach Shores and were taken into custody.

"Those whole areas out there are turtle nesting areas, so there's no lights,"
said Patrol Agent Art Bullock. "It's the perfect spot."

Two unidentified men were taken to St. Mary's Medical Center for treatment of
injuries sustained during the swim, said petty officer Alex Gaufillet of the
U.S. Coast Guard. Several agencies and divers searched early Sunday for a
Haitian woman they were told was missing, but the search was called off later in
the day, according to the Border Patrol.

"The stories we got was a woman had drowned while trying to make it to shore,"
said Joseph Mellia, assistant chief patrol agent. "No one has been recovered so
far."

Authorities believe they may have found the boat used in the smuggling operation
at Sailfish Marina in Palm Beach. Nobody had been arrested in connection with
the case on Sunday night.

Meanwhile, wet money produced by several Asian men at a North Beach convenience
store tipped St. Lucie County authorities early Sunday to another incident,
according to Mark Weinberg, spokesman for the St. Lucie Sheriff's Office. A
clerk became suspicious after 28 to 30 Chinese men walked into his store at
about 4:45 a.m., some of them with soggy bills and wet feet, according to a
report.

Four of the men were taken into custody in North Beach and 27 others were
apprehended at a bus station by Fort Pierce police, Weinberg said. All 31 were
taken into custody by the Border Patrol and taken to a detention facility,
Weinberg said.

Authorities believe the men were dropped off and were able to wade ashore.

The Haitian group was taken to Krome detention center in Miami, said Daniella
Henry, director of the Haitian Community Center in Delray Beach.

"Their families will start calling tomorrow," said Henry, who added that similar
incidents happen every week.

chris_barker@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              253 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 21, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

POST-ELIAN CUBA POLICY MORE URGENT THAN EVER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 436 words


It would be a mistake to conclude that the Elian Gonzalez saga really is over.
The 6-year-old rafter is back in Cuba, but the fallout from his turbulent visit
is confounding. The State Department still is trying to get the Cuban government
to comply with immigration agreements it is ignoring, and Congress soon must try
to decide the future of the 38-year-old embargo against the island.

The politics of Elian complicate both tasks. Talks over immigration broke down
in June, when an emboldened Fidel Castro claimed that the dispute over the boy
had fouled relations. Castro since has retaliated by blocking people who want to
leave, even after they have paid the Cuban government $ 600 or more for exit
permits. The State Department has documented 117 cases of such interference this
summer.

With new legal obstacles before them, more Cubans are ready to risk their lives.
Read Tuesday's plane crash as evidence of the rising level of desperation. U.S.
officials fear another exodus of refugees if Cuba won't follow 1995 agreements,
which took effect after the last exodus, that call for 20,000 U.S. entry visas a
year.

American officials are to meet with Cuban diplomats today in New York and press
for compliance. Negotiators are expected also to argue for greater access to
Cubans intercepted at sea and returned home so that reports of retribution can
be investigated. The prospects are dubious.

Dealings with the Cubans, however, might be slightly less contentious than the
debate in Congress over the trade embargo. The Elian affair has invigorated both
sides. Having witnessed the political excesses of the Cuban-American exile
groups, liberal Democrats and farm-state Republicans have allied themselves in
the cause of opening a new market and ending a failed policy. But the return of
Elian also has galvanized conservatives and embargo supporters.

An International Trade Commission study due in February will attempt to assess
the impact and future of sanctions. Several dozen legislators, lobbyists and
economists testified at ITC hearings this week. One of them called it "the
Woodstock of the Cuba issue." The rhetoric of Marisleysis Gonzalez has moved
from Little Havana to Capitol Hill. Someday, the Senate and House must try to
reconcile a Cuba trade bill that is languishing in a conference committee.

Still missing in our national approach to the island's tyrant is common sense
and a commitment to help the Cuban people. If partisan election sniping fills
the autumn months, the ineffective and misguided embargo will begin a 39th year,
and Castro will win another one.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              254 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 23, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

NEW CITIZEN, CONTAGIOUS OPTIMISM

BYLINE: Stebbins Jefferson

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 682 words


Taking part in the largest naturalization event ever held in Florida, 14,000
immigrants became American citizens Tuesday and Wednesday. You probably saw
pictures of the ceremonies at the Broward County Convention Center. Perhaps you
read that the new citizens came from 111 countries to settle throughout South
Florida. Then you may have given no further thought to the matter.

That's what I might have done - if I did not know Diane.

"I'm going to become a citizen on the 20th," she had said this month, her
lilting Jamaican accent joyously singing over the phone. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service just had notified the 38-year-old woman she would be
sworn in.

Diane came to Florida 10 years ago, primarily because she wanted more education.
In Jamaica, she explained, everyone does not get a free education through high
school. Upper-level education that provides the advanced courses needed "to go
to university" costs more than her family could afford. So she brought her
thirst for education to the U.S.

From the time of her arrival, she has worked hard. She entered a three-month Red
Cross training program to become a nursing assistant, and in 1992 she passed the
state test to become a certified nursing assistant. Now she holds down two jobs.
From 6:45 until mid-afternoon, she works at an elder care facility in Palm Beach
Gardens. Later, she goes to a hospital, where she ends her work day at 11 p.m.

Rather than view this schedule as a hardship, she says this is what she has to
do "for now." Her spirit is buoyed by plans for a future that includes community
college and, ultimately, "university," a word she says with great reverence.

Married to an American citizen, Diane attributes much of her success in passing
the immigration interview test to Vanessa, her sixth-grade daughter. When Diane
applied for citizenship in February, she was sent a "leaflet of about a hundred
facts about American history and government." With so little time to set aside
for study, Vanessa would quiz her mother whenever they were riding in the car.
Vanessa would provide clues to the correct answers or supply them. Both mother
and daughter have discovered they know more about this country than many
native-born citizens.

For Diane, Wednesday was a day of triumph. At the swearing-in ceremony, to her
delight, an immigration official reminded the group that when they visit their
homeland, they won't have to stand in the long line for residents and foreigners
when leaving. She can stand in the much shorter VIP line for American citizens.
After saying the Pledge of Allegiance and listening to a group of Broward
schoolchildren sing the national anthem, she received her precious certificate
of citizenship. On it is a picture of her smiling as she looks to the future.

"The beauty," she said, "is now I can vote. (She registered Thursday.) I can do
anything I want to do - hold a federal government job, run for an office, be a
senator. The only thing I can't be is president." She spoke with such conviction
that I wanted everyone in America to have a small transfusion of her optimism.

When I asked her how she would explain the pessimism of so many native
Americans, especially alienated people of color, she quickly responded: "For me,
the issue is not a matter of black or white. It's about being a citizen. For a
long time, all Americans have had it too easy, so they expect things to be easy.
I know better. In Jamaica, my father started working for the sugar company when
he was 7 years old. Taking the easy way out, some foolish young people even seem
proud they have a jail rep."

Because of her work schedule, Diane has yet to celebrate her citizenship. The
family plans to do so with dinner out this weekend. Yet her joy is diluted by
concern for her fellow Americans. "It pains my heart," she said, "that people
have so many opportunities and privileges and don't use them. People have to
learn to always reach for that star."

Laughing, she added, "I'm going to grab it."

Stebbins Jefferson is a columnist for The Palm Beach Post.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              255 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 28, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SENATE REJECTS EXPANDING IMMIGRANT RESIDENCY

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On a vote along party lines, the Senate on Wednesday rejected Democratic efforts
to consider allowing more undocumented Central American and Haitian immigrants
to apply for legal residency.

The 55-43 vote came on a motion by Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., to let
the Senate attach the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act as part of a bill to
expand the number of H-1B visas for foreign workers with high-tech skills.

The proposal would allow undocumented immigrants who arrived in the United
States between 1972 and 1985 to apply for permanent residency status. It also
would grant refugees from Haiti, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras the same
rights as Cuban and Nicaraguan refugees in applying for permanent residency
status.

A third provision would have allowed immigrants living with their families in
the United States to remain in this country while awaiting a decision on their
residency status.

Democrats, with support from President Clinton, have vowed to try adding the
measure to other legislation, such as a pending appropriations bill to finance
the Commerce, Justice and State departments, beginning next week.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., had earlier used his leadership
powers to keep the Fairness Act separate from the visa bill, and Daschle failed
Wednesday to get the Senate to overrule that move.

Only Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., crossed party lines on the vote.

On a related matter, a group of Democratic senators introduced a bill Wednesday
that would allow legal immigrants convicted of minor crimes to avoid mandatory
deportation.

The legislation would overturn provisions of the 1996 Immigration Act that
require deportation of any legal immigrant convicted of a crime that carried a
potential sentence of a year or more, even if the person never was in jail.

Under that law, "homicide and bouncing a check are indistinguishable," said Sen.
Bob Graham, D-Fla., the bill's primary sponsor.

The bill would restore the legal situation for deportation based on prior
criminal activity to the way it existed prior to enactment of the 1996 law.

Persons would be liable for deportation only if that was a penalty at the time
the crime was committed.

The bill also would allow those people who have been deported to apply for
readmission to the United States.

larryl@coxnews.com


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              256 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 26, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

COLOMBIA IN PROCESS OF FILING FOR EXTRADITION IN MURDER ARREST

BYLINE: Brian D. Crecente, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: HIGHLAND BEACH


Seven years after the body of the Colombian president's father-in-law was
discovered in an unmarked grave outside of Bogota, U.S. federal agents plucked
one of the two men responsible from his hiding place at the Regency Highland
Club.

Mauricio Pardo, 42, was picked up Tuesday by a team of FBI and Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents near an apartment he also rents near 340 Egret
Circle in Delray Beach. Federal authorities said Pardo moved back and forth
between the two addresses.

He is being held at Krome Detention Center in west Miami-Dade County awaiting a
deportation hearing, said INS spokeswoman Patricia Mancha.

Mancha said the hearing process could take months or years.

Colombia officials are in the process of filing a request for extradition, said
Adrianne Foglia, press secretary for the president of Colombia.

Mancha said Pardo has entered the United States numerous times, but on April 27,
1995, he applied for an extension to his visitor's visa and was denied.
Officials told him he had to leave the country by Feb. 6, 1997.

On Dec. 14, 1995, he requested a change of status, saying that his company, a
family-owned stock trading company, had transferred him to the United States.
Again he was denied.

Mancha said INS officials were contacted by the FBI recently and told that Pardo
was wanted by Colombia, where he had been convicted of kidnapping and murder in
1997.

The charges stem from the 1991 abduction and killing of Eduardo Puyana,
father-in-law of Andres Pastrana, current president of Colombia.

Foglia said the kidnapping occurred while Pastrana was studying at Harvard on a
scholarship, about seven years before his election as president.

She said the kidnappers called Pastrana's family for nearly six months before
breaking off contact. Puyana's body was found two years later. He had died of
gunshot wounds, she said.

Pardo was tried in absentia and sentenced to 30 years in prison, she said.
Pardo's brother, Enrique, also was convicted in the kidnapping and murder.

Mauricio Pardo released a videotape shortly after his conviction claiming he was
not responsible for the kidnapping and death and saying that he had delivered
drug money to the president's brother-in-law.

In a statement released Wednesday from Pastrana's press office, officials say
Pardo's claim is merely an attempt to "avoid Colombian justice."

The Miami Herald contributed to this story.

brian_crecente@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              257 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 10, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

DAY IN COURT, FINALLY USF IMMIGRATION TRIAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 332 words


During the presidential campaign, both Vice President Al Gore and Texas Gov.
George W. Bush said that using secret evidence is not the American way. Back in
Reality, USA, there are people like Mazen Najjar.

Mr. Najjar, a Palestinian and former University of South Florida professor who
has lived in the United States almost 20 years, was ordered deported in 1997 for
overstaying a student visa but has been detained more than three years based on
evidence neither he nor his attorney have seen. His long-overdue release finally
could come within days. U.S. Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ruled at an Oct.
27 detention hearing that the government failed to prove its claims that Mr.
Najjar supported or raised funds for terrorists organizations. That same judge
contributed to this violation of Mr. Najjar's due process rights, however, by
denying bail during the 1997 appeal of the deportation. Judge McHugh had based
the denial on government allegations that Mr. Najjar is "associated" with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Only after U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard said "mere association" was not
enough did Judge McHugh reconsider bail. At the hearing, prosecutors presented
no public evidence to show that Mr. Najjar was a security threat. He had not
engaged in any act of violence, witnesses conceded, nor could anyone trace money
from him to a terrorist group.

With the matter thus back on a constitutional footing, Judge McHugh gave federal
prosecutors two weeks to say whether they will present classified evidence in a
closed-door hearing, thus giving Mr. Najjar an chance, finally, to rebut it.
That time's about up. But with two dozen other Arab or Muslim immigrants jailed
indefinitely without being charged with a crime, this is worse than another case
of ethnic profiling. It's past time federal prosecutors made their case. If they
don't, their unconstitutional abuse already has made a better case for
eliminating detention based on such secret evidence.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              258 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 17, 2000 Sunday FINAL EDITION

GETTING BEYOND ELIAN US CUBA FOREIGN RELATIONS IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 314 words


The United States and Cuba now agree on something extraordinary: More people
come to the U.S. from Cuba legally than illegally.

Since 1995, according to the State Department, 133,800 Cubans have taken
advantage of legal immigration procedures to emigrate. The number who have come
illegally by raft, smuggler or other means is unknown, but Cuban and American
delegates to recent immigration talks in Havana agree that number is much
smaller.

Elian Gonzalez's story highlighted the danger of illegal immigration. His mother
and 10 others died making the trip. Protesters insisted that sending Elian back
would render her death meaningless, but keeping Elian in the U.S. would have
disrupted the agreements that have let so many others make the trip safely. In
fact, talks aimed at improving the established immigration procedures stalled
during the Elian standoff.

The atmosphere had improved by this month's Havana meeting, but Fidel Castro's
government refused to remove barriers the United States rightly insists force
too many Cubans to resort to dangerous illegal crossings. For example, Cuba
charges $600 and up for exit papers. Doctors must wait five years before
leaving.

For its part, Cuba correctly charges that the U.S. policy of allowing any Cuban
who reaches shore to stay encourages people to risk the often-fatal trip. That
policy, part of the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, also lets Castro use immigration
as a weapon. As he did in 1994, the Cuban dictator can swamp South Florida with
refugees simply by giving citizens the freedom to leave. In that episode, 30,000
Cubans left in a matter of days.

With more Cubans coming legally than illegally, the trend is in the right
direction. The goal, which realistically might not be reachable until Castro is
gone, is controlled, fair, legal immigration accompanied by repeal of the Cuban
Adjustment Act.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              259 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 20, 2000 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

RE-ENACTMENT GIVES KIDS LESSON IN IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Angie Francalancia

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words


The foreigners watched from the ship deck as the New York skyline came into
view. Dressed in clothes from the old country, they timidly approached the
waiting officials at Ellis Island.

Would they pass the medical exam? Could they show their ability to read and
write? Would they be allowed to stay in America?

The bashfulness was genuine, but everything else about the Ellis Island
adventure that Binks Forest Elementary School's second-graders experienced was
the creation of their teachers.

"This was the culminating activity from our social studies unit on immigration,"
said JoAnn Garzione, the second-grade teacher who coordinated the "trip."

"We were hoping they would speak to their grandparents and find out what it
would have been like to be an immigrant at the turn of the century."

The unit started with Thanksgiving and discussions on the Pilgrims as the first
immigrants to America, she said. It included lessons on why people came to the
United States, what they packed and what they would do when they got across the
ocean.

Second-graders dressed in costumes their ancestors might have worn during the
turn of the century in Italy, Germany, England - and many other countries whose
people would come at different times.

The first week in December, Binks Forest's media center was converted to Ellis
Island. PTA President Alan Moffat made a boat with dry ice "steam" that the
students "rode" into the harbor.

Each immigrant had to tell Ellis Island officials where they came from, where
they were going, what job they would do and whether they could read and write.
Then each had to pass a mock physical before being welcomed to America with a
tiny American flag.

- Fast cars: Walk through the parking lot of Burger King on Southern Boulevard
in Royal Palm Beach Monday nights and you'll think you walked through a time
warp. There are the guys leaning on shiny fenders, talking horsepower as their
car motors rumble.

It's just the weekly meeting of the Asphalt Angels, a car club whose origins
date back to the 1950s.

Monday nights about 30 to 50 of the 90-plus members gather for fast food and
fast car talk.

"There's a saying: You give a street rodder a car, he'll make it go fast," said
member Larry Weld.

What hot rods were to the 1970s, street rods are today. Different name, but the
same fast-car concept, Weld says.

In the early 1970s, Don Tillery and some other guys rechartered the club with
the same name as the group that used to meet in Palm Beach County in the '50s.
Today, the group's membership comes from all over Palm Beach County, but
primarily from the western communities.

In the Burger King parking lot, there are 60 years of fast car folklore.

"A lot of these people built their cars from the ground up," Weld said. "We have
30 Model A's, 30 sedans, there are coups, T-buckets, big old fat fender cars,
and stock Cadillacs," he said.

As car history passes, the definition of what constitutes a street rod changes
too, he said.

"In the 1950s, '30s and '40s cars were hot rods. In the '70s, '50s and '60s
models were hot rods," Weld said. "Now, you're looking at stuff 20 to 25 years
old. You've got to own a '72 or older to be in the Asphalt Angels, but we accept
honorary members."

While the group comes together because of their love of cars, they use their
cars to raise money for special children through Childrens Medical Services of
St. Mary's Medical Center.

There's an annual run to the Florida Keys on Father's Day weekend and an annual
trip to Tennessee in September to raise money.

Angie Francalancia is a staff writer for Neighborhood Post. Reach her at
820-3621 or angie_francalancia @pbpost.com. Send faxes to 837-8320.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Wellington

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Photo by Angie Francalancia
, Binks Forest second-grader Nestor Lantigua gets his eyes checked by a, member
of the Ellis Island medical team.

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              260 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 9, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

NEW WAVE, OLD STORY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 417 words


New census estimates show that the number of foreign-born United States
residents has risen to 10.4 percent of the population, or 28.3 million people.
During the past 30 years, the percentage has more than doubled as a new wave of
immigration has rolled across the nation. One in six Floridians was not born in
this country.

But don't confuse a new wave with an unprecedented one. America has gone through
all this before. Between 1870 and 1920, foreign-born residents increased until
they made up about 15 percent of the U.S. population. While the reasons for
immigration are essentially the same as back then, a critical difference lies in
where the new arrivals are coming from. A century ago, most immigrants came from
Europe; today, most are from Latin America and Asia.

So if there is similarity in numbers, in matters of race, language, religion and
culture this great migration is different from the last. America's newest
residents tend to look less like those who already are here. Another difference
is that while immigrants once lived mostly in large cities, the new wave is
bringing demographic change to rural and suburban areas.

Despite what has been a booming economy, however, the lives of most immigrants
are as hard as their predecessors. The Census Bureau found that 21.3 percent of
resident noncitizens fell below the poverty line, compared with the national
rate of 11.8 percent. According to the Center for Immigration Studies, 33.4
percent of all immigrants lack health insurance.

The CIS, a Washington-based think tank that wants stricter controls on legal and
illegal immigration, supports a policy that selects immigrants on skills and
ability to compete rather than emphasizing uniting family members. During the
new wave, Asians have tended to come with higher educations and job skills,
while most Latin Americans are at the low ends. Immigrants from the Far East
often go to work behind computers, while those from the south earn their livings
behind shovels.

Should the U.S. economy go south, many native-born Americans will be forced down
the jobs ladder into lower-end work again, displacing immigrants with the least
to offer the marketplace. The first casualties of recession will be taken from
the ranks of the last to arrive. As much as U.S. policy must strive for fairness
and remain in touch with inherent American ideals, the approach also needs to
mind economic realities. Most immigrants can find poverty and frustration in
their own lands.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              261 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 13, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

TEAM ARRESTS 13 FOREIGN NATIONALS ON CRIMINAL CHARGES

BYLINE: Joe Brogan, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Thirteen foreign nationals convicted of drug trafficking or violent felonies
were arrested Thursday in a joint operation by Immigration and Naturalization
Service special agents, Lake Worth police and Palm Beach County sheriff's
detectives, officials announced Friday.

"The arrest and removal of criminal aliens is a priority," said James Goldman,
assistant director of the INS investigation division in Miami. "These men are
most dangerous."

The list of convictions includes murder, drug trafficking and assaults on police
officers.

Four of the men were already being held in the Palm Beach County jail on various
felonies.

Eight more men were still being sought by the team on Friday.

Deportation proceedings will be brought against all except those who are in
jail, said Goldman, who spoke at a press conference at the local INS office.

Those men will be tried and serve their sentences, if any, before being
transferred to federal custody for deportation, he said.

Even those with permanent residency status can be deported for committing major
crimes, he said.

Lake Worth Police Chief Bill Smith credited Lake Worth tactical officer Brian
Hermanson for initiating the idea of seeking INS help in reviewing the status of
foreign-born individuals arrested by his agency.

"I'm often asked why we don't deal with the illegal alien problem," Smith said.

"And I tell them the INS, like other agencies, is understaffed. Having
aggravated (foreign-born) felons living in small cities or rural areas is common
today."

Those arrested were not armed and didn't offer resistance, Golden said.

They will be taken to the Krome Detention Center near Miami for processing, he
said.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              262 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 2, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

150 IMMIGRANTS GIVE CHURCH INSPIRATION FOR A THANK-YOU

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: NORTH PALM BEACH


The pastor of a church that has sponsored more than 150 refugees says the
immigrants have given far more than they have received.

"Their emphasis is on hard work, family and education," the Rev. John L.
Frerking of Faith Lutheran Church said.

"They are like missionaries who come here to remind us of the things that made
us great," he told a national Lutheran board on immigration that held its winter
meeting Thursday at his church in North Palm Beach because of its reputation
helping refugees.

"This is one our our stellar churches in sponsorship around the country," said
Timmi Pierce of Baltimore, a member of the Lutheran Immigration and Refugees
Services National Board.

The board heard from three refugees, all from the former Yugoslavia, who told of
hunger and strife before being accepted by the church to come to America.

"It seemed like nobody wanted me except for Pastor John," said Zlatko Kerken,
26, who thought he could never be accepted into the United States because he has
HIV. He said he got the virus from a blood transfusion when he was 10.

Kerken was an outcast in Bosnia for another reason, however. His father was
Muslim and his mother was Orthodox and he was accepted by neither side in the
religious battles that tore the country apart in the mid-1990s.

Frerking found a way to bring him to America: Kerken pledged not to take
publicly financed treatment for his disease, which he could afford to do when an
infectious disease specialist who was a member of Frerking's congregation agreed
to treat Kerken at no charge.

Dubravka Mujagic lived in refugee camps because it was too dangerous in her
hometown of Sarajevo. She was Croatian, her husband Muslim.

"We just wanted to go somewhere where no one cared what we were," said Mujagic,
who came here with her husband and son.

Bobana Nikolic, 19, lived in a Kosovo refugee camp for nearly three years before
coming here with her parents and brother eight months ago.

"I saw blood, fighting and tears," she said.

When she arrived, Frerking greeted her with one word: Welcome.

"I thought, 'Oh my God, I've never heard the word welcome in so many years,' "
she said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer
, The Rev. John Frerking (standing) of Faith Lutheran Church introduces, refugee
Zlatko Kerken from Bosnia.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              263 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 4, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN COMMUNITY EXPANDING BEYOND DELRAY BASE ECONOMIC SUCCESS, REFUGEE ACT
SPUR INCREASE

BYLINE: Alice Gregory, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2015 words


In Boynton Beach, Haitians are establishing neighborhoods, using life savings to
buy four-bedroom homes with two-car garages to accommodate their large families.

In Delray Beach, the "capital" of Palm Beach County's Haitian population, the
city sponsors a Haitian Police Academy and a Haitian Roving Patrol.

And just last week, a civic group, along with County Commissioner Mary McCarty,
presented leaders of the burgeoning Haitian community with a handbook and video
in Creole to help parents who suspect their children may be members of gangs.

From the Broward County line to the suburbs of West Palm Beach, the signs of
Haitian expansion are everywhere: Creole radio shows; community centers where
clients line up to ask about immigration and political asylum; markets that
serve up plantains, turnips, rice, okra and dried herring to Haitian customers
all day long.

South Palm Beach County's Haitian community is exploding, a result of the
economic success of long-term immigrants combined with the effects of the 1998
Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act.

In addition, natives of a long-troubled homeland who once considered their stay
temporary are now giving up hope that the political climate back home will
change.

"They used to talk about that," said Jean Raymond, 39, a real estate agent with
First Florida Real Estate, "but now that they can't go back, they're bringing
their whole families here."

As a result, newcomers to the saturated Haitian neighborhoods in Delray Beach
are being forced to move northward, drawn by lower housing prices and the
county's increasing diversity.

"It's an invasion - it's slow, but it's happening," said Daniella Henry,
executive director of the Haitian American Community Council in Delray Beach.

The U.S. Census Bureau recorded about 13,000 Haitians living in Palm Beach
County in 1990, but many community leaders believe the number has now reached
more than 50,000. Robert Arrieux, executive director of the Haitian Center for
Family Services in West Palm Beach, said he thinks the number could be even
higher - up to 100,000.

Haitian families are buying homes wherever they can afford them - many in
Boynton Beach and Lake Worth, where property values are cheaper than in Delray
Beach.

They fill schools nightly to learn English, and they're beginning to open
businesses and establish themselves as a visible part of the population.

And some city officials are finally taking notice, seeking Creole-speaking job
applicants and expanding services to include health clinics and improved housing
for Haitian-Americans.

Delray influx began in '80s

"We're paying taxes just like everyone else," said Michaelle Miller, a Haitian
woman who helps translate the staccato Creole that rattles off the tongues of
needy residents at the Community Caring Center in Boynton Beach.

"We have to go to Lake Worth or to Delray Beach for health services, and
sometimes it's very difficult and hard to go with no car."

Cities with burgeoning Haitian populations often look to Delray Beach for
guidance on how it handles its well-established Haitian community.

Lula Butler, the city's community improvement director and a 30-year resident,
said the number of Haitians in Delray Beach began growing in the 1980s.

As more Haitians began making their way to Delray Beach, the city recognized it
would have to involve them in the community, she said. Delray Beach now has 19
Haitian-Americans among its 803 city employees and has implemented volunteer
Haitian patrols on its police force.

"I don't think there are any more services in Delray Beach, but what we have
done is be creative in working with and assisting our immigrant population,"
Butler said. "You have to understand that they're citizens and they're part of
the community."

Although Boynton Beach neighborhood specialist Dan DeCarlo said the Haitian
community is the fastest-growing immigrant group in that city, officials there
are just beginning to take steps to acknowledge its presence.

The city - often reliant on its 14 Creole-speaking employees - specifically asks
for Creole or Spanish speakers in its advertisements now, said Brenda Dibbs,
Boynton Beach's employment and recruitment coordinator.

And City Manager Kurt Bressner said he recently met with the Boynton Beach
Ministerial Association and is planning to "collaborate with the Haitian
American center in Delray Beach to involve Haitians in the community."

Like Delray Beach, Lake Worth has an established Haitian community and two
service centers: the Haitian American Community Council and the Haitian American
Social Service Consul Inc.

"The Haitian community is a significant segment of the community, and we need to
recognize the fact that they need to be communicated with," said McCarty, who
allocated $5,000 to translate a 'Together Against Gangs' handbook and video into
Spanish. Commissioner Burt Aaronson spent $5,000 for the Creole translation.

"The timing of this couldn't be better," said Karlie Richardson, deputy director
of the Delray Beach-based Haitian American Community Council, at the Jan. 26
presentation of the tape. "The Haitian community feels left out a lot because
they see things in English and they say, 'I don't speak English all that well.'
"

In a new country with a different language and ofttimes wary residents, Palm
Beach County's growing Haitian community has learned to rely on itself.

When the Rev. Mathieu Exantus came to Boynton Beach in 1986 with his wife, Rose,
he was struggling to support his family in Haiti and working with immigration
officials to get his relatives to the United States.

"We didn't have many things for the Haitian community here," Exantus said.

So he opened Atlantic General Services Immigration and Haitian Community Center.
Sitting behind a cluttered wooden desk, the amiable man helps Haitians find jobs
and answers hundreds of questions about immigration and political asylum.
Cameras used to take pictures for visas and work permits are propped alongside
stacks of paperwork from the 25 to 50 clients he helps each week.

Exantus also hosts a radio show in Creole on 1340 AM three days a week. He said
he met with the Greater Boynton Beach Chamber of Commerce about a month ago to
find out how to integrate the Haitian community.

But Exantus said he still does not know where to turn in the city to help many
newly arrived Haitians who find their way to his office. The city does not
provide immigration services or applications for citizenship or political
asylum.

The dearth of social services for Haitians in other cities overwhelms Henry,
executive director of the Delray Beach center.

In a narrow waiting room, Henry fills out paperwork and zips from one person to
the next, trying to solve the problems of the dozens who will fill her office
before sundown.

"Where are you from?" she asked one man, who had been patiently waiting to see
her for hours. "New York! And you're here? Oh, my . . . " she sighed, raising
her hand to her forehead.

"We just can't keep up," she said.

Even as rising property values force Haitian families to move west of Delray
Beach or to Lake Worth or Boynton Beach, community leaders agree the culture's
local focus remains Delray Beach.

They gather in Baz Normal (Creole for "central base" or "the capital") near
Swinton and Atlantic avenues to buy produce, talk to friends and attend social
gatherings.

"They sleep in Boynton Beach and do everything else in Delray Beach," said
Henry, who estimated that about 12,000 to 14,000 Haitians live in Delray Beach
and 6,000 live in Boynton Beach.

Living the American dream

Many Haitians lived with relatives when they came to the United States and have
now saved enough money to buy a house, Raymond said. The four-bedroom houses
they are looking for typically go for more than $ 100,000 in Delray Beach, but
his clients earn an average income of $ 15,000 to $17,000, or about $30,000 for
a family with two incomes, he said.

"About five to six years ago, we didn't have a lot of Haitians buying homes,"
Raymond said.

The 1998 Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act allowed many Haitian
immigrants to apply for residency and allows Haitians living in the United
States since 1995 to bring immediate family members here from Haiti.

"Now they want to have a piece of the American dream, and now they have help,
too, with grants and other assistance, so they can buy a home," Raymond said.

Marie Seide, president of Tropical Realty, tells clients that homes generally
cost about $15,000 more in Delray Beach than in Boynton Beach.

Seide's Haitian clients are finding $80,000 homes in northeast Boynton Beach and
on the east side of Lake Worth, but as neighborhoods fill up, they will be
migrating to neighborhoods west of Lantana, she said.

Although establishing neighborhoods has been challenging for Haitian-Americans,
attaining acceptance in the existing community has been even more daunting.

About 14,000 Haitian-Americans are enrolled in Palm Beach County schools. And
about 7,000 Haitian students are enrolled in English for Speakers of Other
Languages classes.

The district, with about 10,000 teachers, employs 630 ESOL teachers and 435 ESOL
aides. It also has 304 translators, or "language facilitators." Of those, about
120 speak Creole.

Cultural differences

In addition to language barriers, there often are clashes between the
African-American and Haitian-American communities. They are often thrown into
the same racial category, but their cultural differences sometimes generate
frictions.

Sister Lorraine Ryan, coordinator of the Women's Circle, which helps needy
Haitian- and African-American women, said one Haitian woman told of her son's
being beaten up by his African-American classmates.

"It's a totally different culture and I think sociologically, the last group
over is pushed down by the group that's been here," Ryan said.

Henry, who said she was bullied by blacks in high school, agreed, but said the
divisions between blacks and Haitians are closing.

"It's a lack of education on both parts - the Haitians think they're better and
the black Americans think they're better," she said. "Then you have conflict.
But they don't waste as much time fighting anymore."

S. Bruce McDonald, interim president and CEO of the Urban League of Palm Beach
County, said cultural tensions still exist, but his organization holds monthly
summits to promote understanding. Teenagers talk about the problems in schools
and read poetry in their native languages.

"We know (clashes are) happening in our schools and in our community," he said.
"We know there are language differences. But we are good facilitators to try to
reduce these frictions. We recognize our mutual needs and our unique needs and
we work together."

Arrieux said people are beginning to accept the Haitian community as a permanent
part of the population.

"I'm not saying the work is done, but at least they are trying to accommodate
the Haitian community," he said. "There has been an acknowledgement that we are
here and we also need to be included in the community."

Staff writer Shannon Colavecchio contributed to this story.

alice_gregory@pbpost.com

Haitian community centers

Haitian leaders in Palm Beach County call Delray Beach the capital' of the
Haitian population here. Many Haitian families are moving to Boynton Beach and
Lake Worth, and cities are considering new ways to handle the influx.

Lake Worth

* Haitian American Community Council

1414 Lucerne Ave.

* Haitian American Social Service Consul, Inc.

130 N. Dixie Highway

West Palm Beach

* Haitian Center for Family Services

2715 N. Australian Ave.

Boynton Beach

* Atlantic General Services Immigration and Haitian Community Center

452 N. Federal Highway

Riviera Beach

* Haitian Resource Center

301 Broadway

Delray Beach

* Haitian American Community Council

600 N. Congress Ave.

* Refugee Immigration Services

619 W. Atlantic Ave.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) & MAP (B&W), 1. (C) TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer
, Michaelle Miller (left) and her 14-year-old daughter, Eloise, outside, their
Boynton Beach home. Miller helps as a translator at the, Community Caring Center
in Boynton Beach.
, 2. BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer
, Louis Ivana shows some of the homemade flowers she sells at a shop, where she
works on Southeast Second Avenue in Delray Beach, an area, of many Haitian-owned
businesses.
, 3. Map of area Haitian Community Centers.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              264 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 17, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

BUSH, FOX APPOINT MIGRATION, LABOR TASK FORCE

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL, MEXICO


In the midst of the latest Iraq bombing, President Bush on Friday declared the
dawn of an "unprecedented opportunity" for Mexico and the United States to
resolve festering conflicts over illegal immigration, drug trafficking and
energy shortages.

Bush, on his first trip abroad as president, joined Mexican President Vicente
Fox in announcing the immediate formation of a high-level team to address
migration and labor issues, including ideas for a potentially controversial
guest-worker program.

The chairmen of the team will be U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell, U.S.
Attorney General John Ashcroft, Mexican Foreign Secretary Jorge Castaneda and
Mexican Internal Affairs Secretary Santiago Creel.

"I trust your president. He's the kind of man you can look in the eye and know
he's shooting straight with you," said Bush of Fox, as he stood squinting into a
blazing sun during a bilingual press conference held at Fox's ranch in this
small town in Guanajuato state.

Fox, whose inauguration on Dec. 1 ended 71 years of one-party rule in Mexico,
represents "a new birth of freedom" for Mexico, Bush said.

In addition to questions about the substance of the all-day summit, Mexican
reporters, as aggressively as U.S. reporters, peppered Bush with questions about
why Iraq was bombed.

"Another war, Mr. President?" asked one.

A number of Bush Cabinet members were present at the president's debut summit,
including Powell and National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice.

The two groups of leaders called an array of initial priorities they set for
binational relations Friday the "Guanajuato Proposal."

"Migration is one of the major ties that bind our societies," the proposal
states. "We believe that Mexico should make the most of the skills and
productivity of its workers at home. But we agree there should be an orderly
framework for migration which ensures humane treatment, legal security and
dignified labor conditions."

Neither Bush nor Fox gave any specifics about possibly starting a new
guest-worker program, which is gaining steam in the U.S. Congress.

The two presidents talked about a hemisphere-wide plan for free trade, and about
working with Canada on boosting energy supplies.

Bush said they also talked about the possibility of opening "bottlenecks" in
Mexico's capacity to transfer energy to the United States.

He said Mexico's Baja California state could perhaps develop more capacity for
transferring energy to the western United States to alleviate shortfalls.

The two presidents also discussed conflict over the United States' annual drug
certification ritual, when the U.S. State Department and Congress decide what
countries they will label reliable drug-fighting partners.

Mexicans always are offended by the exercise - which has a March 1 deadline -
and have denounced it as self-righteous and counter-productive.

"We need to work together on the drug issue," Bush said. "One of the reasons why
drugs are shipped - the main reason why drugs are shipped through Mexico to the
United States - is because United States citizens use drugs. And our nation must
do a better job of educating our citizenry about the dangers and the evils of
drug use."

He said there is a "movement in the (United States)" to review certification,
but he didn't say whether he believes the policy should be discarded.

Fox, a popular figure in Mexico, opened the joint press conference.

"We, the presidents of Mexico and the United States, have the favorable
circumstance of beginning our respective mandates simultaneously," he said. "Mr.
President Bush, the spirit in which we have conducted this first working meeting
marks the beginning of a novel stage in our bilateral relations."

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/The Associated Press
, Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of Mexico (right) join U.S. Secretary, of
State Colin Powell in standing for the national anthems.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              265 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 22, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ADOPTED OVERSEAS CHILDREN SOON WILL BECOME INSTANT U.S. CITIZENS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 389 words


Children adopted overseas will be given instant citizenship beginning next week
when they step foot or arrive cradled in arms onto U.S. soil.

The new law, which takes effect Tuesday, will help 50,000 children already here
and an estimated 10,000 new arrivals each year, the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Wednesday.

"I think it's great," said Amy Garvin-Liddell, adoption supervisor at Children's
Home Society in West Palm Beach. "Adoptive families have so much to go through
and if one step can be made easier, I'm for it."

Before, applying for citizenship meant a $225 fee and a wait of months or
sometimes years for naturalization papers.

"This takes away the need to do that," said Eyleen Schmidt, an INS spokeswoman.

Adoption agencies advise parents to get their foreign-born, adopted children
sworn in as U.S. citizens as soon as possible.

"Without American citizenship, some countries could conscript the child to come
back and fight a war," said Gwen Baldwin, a social worker for Suncoast
International Adoptions in Largo, near Tampa.

Baldwin also said she's heard of some older adopted children being sent back to
their birth countries for breaking laws the INS considers deportable offenses,
including drug arrests.

The instant citizenship law grew out of concerns in Congress that many
lawbreakers faced deportation because they failed to become citizens.

"Parents never got around to naturalizing them," Schmidt said.

Parents whose kids gain their citizenship on Tuesday will not receive any notice
or certificates. If the parents need proof, they can apply for a certificate of
citizenship from the INS for a $125 fee or apply for a passport.

Passport offices should accept the child's adoption papers, his foreign passport
with a visa stamp and proof of a parent's citizenship to issue a passport, a
U.S. Department of State official said. Passports are accepted as proof of U.S.
citizenship.

The law granting instant citizenship requires that the child be under 18 years
old, live in the United States and have at least one parent who is a naturalized
or U.S.-born citizen.

Parents who have already filed a citizenship application on behalf of an adopted
child will receive a certificate of citizenship in the mail, the INS said.

bill_douthat @pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              266 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AMNESTY WOULD BE ANOTHER PAYOFF

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 179 words


The Post quotes Mexican President Vicente Fox as saying, "The commitment of
President Bush and our commitment is to seek that all those Mexicans who are
there without documents or illegally be considered legal workers."

This has to mean that President Bush has cut a deal with Mr. Fox to open U.S.
borders to Mexico. The obvious question is, why would Mr. Bush dump so many
impoverished Mexican farm workers on a already overburdened and underfinanced
U.S. social system?

The only explanation is that amnesty for illegals would provide agricultural
companies an unending supply of minimum-wage farm workers. Is this a political
payoff? Can this country afford a huge increase in population in border states
such as Texas and California, which already cannot provide health insurance and
social services even for Americans?

Nothing is wrong with reasonable immigration, but it must be controlled. Open
borders is perhaps the most irresponsible policy concocted by any president, and
another good argument for campaign-finance reform.

BERT BASS

Tequesta

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              267 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 1, 2001 Thursday SOUTH EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 87 words


GULF STREAM - Authorities picked up nine Haitian refugees they believe were
smuggled ashore late Tuesday. Six people were spotted walking along State Road
A1A in Gulf Stream and three more on Woolbright Road just west of the
Intracoastal Waterway bridge in Boynton Beach about 11 p.m. Tuesday. The U.S.
Border Patrol took the eight men and one woman to the Krome Detention Center
west of Miami. At least 170 illegal immigrants have been found in Palm Beach
County since October, according to the border patrol.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              268 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 3, 2001 Saturday SOUTH EDITION

WOMAN TRIED TO KIDNAP IMMIGRANT'S BABY, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: Scott McCabe and Alexandra Navarro Clifton, Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Two-month-old Gaspar Junior Vargas has his kidnapper's name, police say.

And his real mother, Maria, a Guatemalan field worker who's here illegally,
fears she has no way of changing it to her last name, which is not Vargas.

Thursday, police arrested Juana Domingo Vargas, the woman they say befriended a
pregnant Maria and then, after delivery, tore the newborn from her arms. Police
say Vargas held the child for $1,400 ransom, then threatened to have the new
mother deported. Vargas, 28, of Lake Worth, was held without bail in the Palm
Beach County Jail Friday on charges of kidnapping and extortion.

Maria, 23, said Friday that Vargas approached her at a grocery store when she
was six months pregnant. Vargas was friendly, first asking if she had a husband
or family, then telling stories of young mothers being swept away by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service after delivery. She warned that Maria
wouldn't be allowed to keep her baby if she delivered under her real name
because she was an illegal alien.

INS would deport her, Maria remembers Vargas saying. Maria believed her. She had
been in South Florida for less than 18 months. She was alone.

Vargas had a plan. The pregnant woman could register at the hospital using
Vargas' name, address and Social Security number.

The labor pains hit while Maria picked chili peppers in the fields west of West
Palm Beach. Vargas rushed her to St. Mary's Medical Center and on the morning of
Jan. 4, Gaspar was born.

That afternoon, Vargas drove the mother and son home.

But before Maria could pull her baby from the back seat, Vargas flashed the
birth certificate, which identified the mother as Juana Domingo Vargas and the
child as Gaspar Junior Vargas. If Maria wanted to see her son again, Vargas
said, she would have to pay $1,400 cash, according to the police report.

" 'You have no right to your son,' " Maria said Vargas told her. " 'Now he's in
my name.' "

Vargas drove off with Gaspar, a police report said.

"I begged her to give me back my baby," Maria said. "I have no family here, but
I can have my son."

Ten days later Maria came up with the ransom money. Most of it was money she had
saved so she could take a month away from the fields to be with her baby.

Vargas had the deal notarized at Maya Azteca Services, 711 N. Dixie Highway. The
document said the money was to pay back a loan from Vargas for baby expenses.
Maria paid the notary $100.

A couple of weeks later, Vargas called back. She wanted more money and
threatened Maria with telling police that the baby was her own, according to
police. Vargas had the birth certificate to prove it.

That's when Maria went to Carlos Cisneros, a volunteer at the Farmworker
Coordinating Council, and police began investigating.

When police talked to Vargas on Monday, she told them she kept the baby for a
week because Maria didn't want him and the money was for her expenses during
that time. After they accused her of lying, she began crying and told police she
wanted the boy because she had two daughters and no sons, the police report
said. She then confessed and gave the $1,400 to police, the report said.

Patricia Mancha, of the INS, said Maria will be deported if the agency finds
her. But Mancha doesn't know how hard INS will search; the agency focuses on
criminal immigrants, she said.

Lake Worth police have not contacted INS about Maria but said they will notify
the federal agency about Vargas. She could be deported as a legal immigrant if
she is convicted of a felony.

Now, Maria just wants to give her son his real last name.

"I don't know what to do," she said. "I want my baby to have my name, not hers."

scott_mccabe@pbpost.com

alex_clifton@pbpost.com jj

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)), 1. (C) RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer
, Maria, a Guatemalan field worker, shows off her 2-month-old son., Police say
he was kidnapped and held for $1,400 ransom.
, 2. Juana Domingo Vargas (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              269 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 3, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

WOMAN TRIED TO KIDNAP IMMIGRANT'S BABY, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: Scott McCabe and Alexandra Navarro Clifton, Palm Beach Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Two-month-old Gaspar Junior Vargas has his kidnapper's name, police say.

And his real mother, Maria, a Guatemalan field worker who's here illegally,
fears she has no way of changing it to her last name, which is not Vargas.

Thursday, police arrested Juana Domingo Vargas, the woman they say befriended a
pregnant Maria and then, after delivery, tore the newborn from her arms. Police
say Vargas held the child for $1,400 ransom, then threatened to have the new
mother deported. Vargas, 28, of Lake Worth, was held without bail in the Palm
Beach County Jail Friday on charges of kidnapping and extortion.

Maria, 23, said Friday that Vargas approached her at a grocery store when she
was six months pregnant. Vargas was friendly, first asking if she had a husband
or family, then telling stories of young mothers being swept away by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service after delivery. She warned that Maria
wouldn't be allowed to keep her baby if she delivered under her real name
because she was an illegal alien.

INS would deport her, Maria remembers Vargas saying. Maria believed her. She had
been in South Florida for less than 18 months. She was alone.

Vargas had a plan. The pregnant woman could register at the hospital using
Vargas' name, address and Social Security number.

The labor pains hit while Maria picked chili peppers in the fields west of West
Palm Beach. Vargas rushed her to St. Mary's Medical Center and on the morning of
Jan. 4, Gaspar was born.

That afternoon, Vargas drove the mother and son home.

But before Maria could pull her baby from the back seat, Vargas flashed the
birth certificate, which identified the mother as Juana Domingo Vargas and the
child as Gaspar Junior Vargas. If Maria wanted to see her son again, Vargas
said, she would have to pay $1,400 cash, according to the police report.

" 'You have no right to your son,' " Maria said Vargas told her. " 'Now he's in
my name.' "

Vargas drove off with Gaspar, a police report said.

"I begged her to give me back my baby," Maria said. "I have no family here, but
I can have my son."

Ten days later Maria came up with the ransom money. Most of it was money she had
saved so she could take a month away from the fields to be with her baby.

Vargas had the deal notarized at Maya Azteca Services, 711 N. Dixie Highway. The
document said the money was to pay back a loan from Vargas for baby expenses.
Maria paid the notary $100.

A couple of weeks later, Vargas called back. She wanted more money and
threatened Maria with telling police that the baby was her own, according to
police. Vargas had the birth certificate to prove it.

That's when Maria went to Carlos Cisneros, a volunteer at the Farmworker
Coordinating Council, and police began investigating.

When police talked to Vargas on Monday, she told them she kept the baby for a
week because Maria didn't want him and the money was for her expenses during
that time. After they accused her of lying, she began crying and told police she
wanted the boy because she had two daughters and no sons, the police report
said. She then confessed and gave the $1,400 to police, the report said.

Patricia Mancha, of the INS, said Maria will be deported if the agency finds
her. But Mancha doesn't know how hard INS will search; the agency focuses on
criminal immigrants, she said.

Lake Worth police have not contacted INS about Maria but said they will notify
the federal agency about Vargas. She could be deported as a legal immigrant if
she is convicted of a felony.

Now, Maria just wants to give her son his real last name.

"I don't know what to do," she said. "I want my baby to have my name, not hers."

scott_mccabe@pbpost.com

alex_clifton@pbpost.com jj

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W)), 1. (C) RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer
, Maria, a Guatemalan field worker, shows off her 2-month-old son., Police say
he was kidnapped and held for $1,400 ransom.
, 2. Juana Domingo Vargas (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              270 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 7, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

APARTMENTS FOR IMMIGRANTS WILL BE RAZED, REBUILT

BYLINE: Michelle Mundy, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


Every school day, a bus drops off a handful of children at In the Pines South, a
small community tucked away about a mile off Atlantic Avenue close to U.S. 441.

In the Pines South, in Delray Beach, is an almost 22-year-old nonprofit agency
that runs a 33-apartment complex and child development center that helps
immigrant families establish their own homes. A second location, In the Pines
North, is in Boynton Beach off Hagen Ranch Road.

The south complex, once surrounded by tomato and pepper fields, now is flanked
by neighborhood developments. A pepper field, once on the west side, was
bulldozed about three weeks ago. Its namesake Australian pine trees were
removed, making room for an east-side development of multimillion-dollar homes.

Soon, In the Pines will undergo its own construction as the small community of
children, moms, dads, grandparents and others move in order to tear down the 33
deteriorating apartments. In its place, workers will build 40 new apartments.

The almost $2.8 million renovation was financed by about seven different grant
and loan sources, including grants from the Department of Children and Families,
Palm Beach County, Junior League of Boca Raton, Federal Home Loan Bank and Fleet
Bank.

The most recent loan from the Florida Housing Finance Corp., which totals almost
$1.3 million, ensured there was enough money to complete the project, says Steve
Graziani, president of Community Development Consulting in Miami. Graziani, who
is handling the financing of the project, says that construction may begin, at
latest, in June or August.

"We're aiming for June," he says. The project is in the early planning stages.

For In the Pines residents, life continues as usual. The elementary school-age
children jump off the bus to go to In the Pines' Homework Help Program, which
was the recent recipient of an $18,000 grant for both Boynton Beach and Delray
Beach locations.

The 8- to 10-year-olds eat cookies and crackers and slurp orange drink from a
paper cup, giggling as one of the children shows off her new wire-framed
glasses.

Their speech easily flows between English and Spanish.

"It's like their home," says Kay Larche, the family support specialist who works
part-time in this community.

They soon settle down to do their homework. Everything in the room has been
donated - the computers, supplies and the volunteers' time.

These mentors help the children correct their work and look at their grades - a
great help for the children's families, Larche says.

"About 80 percent cannot read English," Larche says of the families who live
there. She often serves as a bridge between the families, the children and the
school. "Some of those cannot read in their own language."

As the children become more fluent in English, they are able to help translate
for their parents, who come from Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Puerto Rico and
Cuba.

"The child is the bridge between the two cultures," Larche says.

Boca Raton resident and volunteer Anna Mae Comment, who calls herself a
semi-retired teacher from the Virgin Islands, is a volunteer from one of In the
Pines' community partners - St. Jude Catholic Church's Journey for Justice
Committee.

"I feel needed here," she says. "I feel like I'm doing something that's helping
a group of people that I need to help.

"Once you're a teacher, you're always a teacher," she said.

Miguelina Aguirre, a new homeowner who once lived at In the Pines, says that the
Homework Help Program, the volunteers and Larche have made an impact on her
life.

"The teachers here . . . they help a lot," says Aguirre. She has three children
- Dulce, 10, Beatriz, 8, and Guadalupe, 3. "I feel so good."

Some families will stay with relatives while some are looking at renting until
the approximately nine-month construction project is finished, says Larche.
Others are looking at this as an opportunity to buy their own home.

"It's going to be a challenge, and we're all going to be called on to be
flexible," she says, adding that teamwork, a summer camp called Campo Allegre
and their church, Our Lady Queen of Peace, will keep the families together.

"That (church) is the glue that holds the Hispanic immigrant family together,"
she says. "And they all help each other. It's not just a matter of surviving.
I've watched them, and they are a part of and connected to the surrounding
community."

michelle_mundy@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Delray Beach

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer
, Betty Reyes, 10, (center) and Flor Gervacio, 10, (right) help, Elizabeth
Gervacio, 6, with her math during the after school program, at In the Pines. In
the Pines Inc. is a non-profit organization that, helps immigrant families. It
offers a Homework Help Program for, children who live in the complex.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              271 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 11, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RAISES HAND AGAINST ARMS

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 593 words


The Jupiter woman was cruising along with her immigration interview last week,
hoping to end her decadelong quest to become an American citizen.

"It's very important to me," said Liesel Appel, who was born in Germany but has
lived in the United States for the past 21 years. "I want to vote. I want to be
on jury duty. I've waited many, many years for this."

Next month, more than 600 local people will become American citizens during a
ceremony in West Palm Beach. Appel was counting on being one of them.

She breezed through her citizenship test, and in the last flurry of paperwork,
the immigration officer in the Riviera Beach office asked Appel to affirm the
five-part Oath of Renunciation and Allegiance.

No problem, Appel thought, until she read the fourth part of the oath.

"I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law," it
read.

"I can't do it," Appel said.

She couldn't imagine herself fighting in any army. No, it wasn't because of a
religious belief, she told the officer. It was personal.

"I'm a totally nonviolent 60-year-old woman who doesn't hunt or fish and eats
low on the food chain," she said. "I am prepared to bare my arms, but not to
bear arms."

And besides, what sort of Army would want a grandma-aged tree hugger in its
ranks? And why should she have to swear to something that not only was against
her nature, but also a bit preposterous?

Appel wrote on her immigration form: "I would rather be killed, than to kill."

It put the brakes on her smooth interview.

"The officer said she had never experienced this before, and I was sent home
with more paperwork and no citizenship," she said.

Appel filled out her paperwork.

She wrote that she would "protect the environment, lecture in schools, speak to
congregations about tolerance and making choices to create a more peaceful
planet. . . . Donate time and money to charities!"

But not bear arms.

"I have committed my life to non-violence," she wrote.

Appel called me, confused and disappointed.

"Should I have sworn to something I would never do?" she said. "My husband and
friends all think so."

Appel said she wished the oath was more uplifting.

"Arms should be taken out and replaced with words like love and respect of the
United States and all its people and creatures on land, in the sea and air," she
said.

Which sounds noble. But what happens - pardon the German reference here - when
the next Hitler comes along?

Appel to swear amended oath

I checked with the Immigration and Naturalization Service to see if Appel's
citizenship quest has been doomed by her unwillingness to be drafted.

"People don't have to swear to bear arms," said Patricia Mancha, an INS
spokesman.

Just about everybody does, she said, but there are a small number of aspiring
citizens who say, usually citing religious beliefs, that they wouldn't bear arms
for America.

"We do an amended oath for them," Mancha said. "It's an alternate oath that
leaves out the part about bearing arms."

So Appel will get her chance to be a citizen. And on her terms. There just won't
be much pomp and circumstance to her ceremony. Instead of being part of a large
assembly of people being sworn in together, she'll be sworn in individually by
an immigration officer, either moments before or after the main ceremony on
April 18.

"I thought there would be many people, who are, like me, not prepared to bear
arms," she said.

I suspect there are. But they're just not bold enough to admit it.

frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              272 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

TIP LEADS TO ARREST OF ALLEGED 'DEATH SQUAD' MEMBER FORMER WEST PALM BEACH
BRICKLAYER HAD BEEN DEPORTED IN JANUARY

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Juan liked his breakfast at El Palacio and his lunch at the Havana restaurant.

The routine was so exact that a tipster told federal immigration agents
Wednesday that if they missed him at breakfast, they could catch him at lunch.

So, at 11:30 a.m., federal agents awaited outside the Cuban restaurant in the
south end of the city, arresting Juan Angel Hernandez Lara before he entered.

Hernandez Lara, 37, an alleged former member of a Honduran military "death
squad," surrendered without resistance, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service said Wednesday. He was taken to Krome Detention
Center near Miami and faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted of illegally
reentering the country after his deportation earlier this year.

Hernandez Lara, who lived in the West Palm Beach area and worked as a bricklayer
for most of the past 12 years, was deported Jan. 17 after an immigration judge
in Miami ruled that his role in human rights abuses made him unwelcome in the
United States.

Within weeks, Hernandez Lara reappeared at the Cuban coffee counter at El
Palacio as if nothing had happened.

"He's been coming in for the past month," said a waitress at the Cuban cafeteria
in a Belvedere Road shopping center. The last time was about 6 a.m., hours
before his arrest.

Another waitress said Hernandez Lara was upset when The Miami Herald in January
reported that he once admitted torturing civilians as a member of the notorious
Honduran military's Battalion 316 in the 1980s.

"A friend of his said he had been accused of kidnapping and torture and cutting
peoples' ears off, but that it was not true," the waitress said.

INS spokeswoman Patricia Mancha said Hernandez Lara admitted being a member of
Battalion 316 when he applied for political asylum after he sneaked across the
Mexican border into the United States in 1989. The outcome of his asylum request
was unavailable Wednesday.

Hernandez Lara returned the same way a month ago, traveling by car through
Mexico and crossing the border into Brownsville, Texas. He told investigators
his wife in West Palm Beach sent him money for the trip, Mancha said.

The tip to the INS came from Richard Krieger, a former State Department official
and head of a Boynton Beach-based human rights group called International
Educational Missions. Krieger's tips also led to the ouster in late February of
former Honduran general and Battalion 316 founder Luis Discua, who was forced to
leave the United States after living in Miami for four years.

Krieger said he woke up an INS duty officer early Wednesday to report Hernandez
Lara's breakfast and lunch plans. Krieger declined to reveal the source of his
information.

"The INS agent asked me 'How sure are you that he's going to show up?'," Krieger
said. "I told him, 'It would not look good if you guys were not there.' "

"It was a great tip," Mancha said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), Juan Angel Hernandez Lara (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              273 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 22, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ASK AGENCIES TO CONSIDER CULTURES

BYLINE: Clay Lambert, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


What happens when children of immigrants speak the king's English and learn the
U.S. justice system better than many members of the bar?

Representatives of Palm Beach County's growing Haitian community said Saturday
the result is upended families in which children call the shots for parents who
can feel shackled both literally and figuratively.

Several Haitian service organizations called a morning-long meeting at the
Village Academy to implore government agencies to be more culturally sensitive
when making life-altering decisions in their community. United Way, police and
foster care representatives heard the plea, along with David May, the new
district administrator for the Florida Department of Children and Family
Services.

May heard complaints that his agency is one of many that commonly takes a
child's complaint of abuse at face value, without considering long-held Haitian
parental practices or adequately investigating whether abuse ever occurred. In
response, May said such complaints are not new and they reminded him of the
cries of Asian parents, whose Americanized children had better command of
English and a way to get back at disciplining parents.

Representatives of the Haitian Center for Family Services relayed several family
tragedies in which they say children lied about abuse, creating a downward
spiral that left parents fearful of their own children and in danger of
deportation. Sometimes children were angered by corporal punishment.

"Did anyone here attend a parenting class?" family advocate Amelia Rose asked a
gathering of about 30 people present at the meeting. "No. It's on-the-job
training and typically you do as your parents did."

May said spankings and other forms of physical discipline are not illegal, but
that the law confuses some parents - and even some of his 50 investigators.

"Well-meaning people here are trying to tell the Haitian community not to spank
its children and they may be doing everyone a disservice," he said.

Rose, who made a point to say she was not at the meeting in her capacity as
facilitator for the Children Services Council of Palm Beach County, said
families were being torn apart because of a lack of coordination between human
service organizations.

"I can not stand by," she said. "What we do to our children today, they will do
to society tomorrow."

clay_lambert@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              274 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 28, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

VISA APPLICATIONS JUMP AS IMMIGRANTS RACE INS DEADLINE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 336 words


Stampedes at marriage license offices and late-night hours at immigration
offices can mean just one thing - an immigration deadline is nearing.

Doing its part, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Riviera Beach will stay open until midnight Monday to accept visa applications
for last-minute filers who eventually want to get a green card to live legally
in the United States.

The number of applications dropped off at the office at 301 Broadway are more
than twice the normal rate and are topping 80 a day, INS officials said.

INS workers will not review the applications immediately, but will log them in
and give the applicant a receipt, INS officials said.

The midnight Monday deadline is for applicants seeking residency who entered the
country illegally. A new law allows such immigrants to file for a green card
while still in the United States, but they must do so by the deadline.

The visa petition to be filed by Monday costs $110. When a visa number becomes
available, the immigrant pays $1,000 as a fine for being in the county
illegally.

Applicants seeking residency through a job offer, a process called labor
certification, should file with the U.S. Department of Labor and not INS,
officials said.

Immigrants using marriage to a U.S. citizen as a means toward a green card are
flooding Palm Beach County marriage license offices.

At the end of working hours Friday, clerks had accepted 1,293 marriage
applications for April, compared with 715 applications for April of last year.

"There are some unusual cases coming through the door," said Steve Nichol, clerk
of court spokesman. "Older woman marrying much younger men and older men
marrying much younger women."

At the Delray Beach office, about half of the brides or grooms coming in are
foreign-born, he said.

Some of couples don't appear to know each other well, he said.

"It's not to say it's not legitimate. That's for INS to figure out," Nichol
said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              275 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 12, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH MOM GETS 38 YEARS FOR TODDLER'S MURDER

BYLINE: Mary McLachlin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Haitian immigrant mother whose beatings killed her 2-year-old daughter won't
get out of prison until she's past 60.

Her husband, who told neighbors, relatives and his boss - but not the police -
about the beatings, will be out by Thanksgiving.

Djenane and Pascal Estime of Lake Worth finally went through with their plea
bargains Friday before Circuit Judge Richard Wennet, though not without further
balks and glitches.

They were arrested in November 1999, after little Marie Estime was found dead at
the couple's home at 714 S. B St. The toddler had blackened eyes, 12 broken
ribs, a broken leg, bleeding in her brain and internal injuries. The mother said
she hit Marie and her other four children with belts and plastic dinner plates.

Djenane Estime, 30, tearfully pleaded guilty to second-degree murder, rather
than go to trial and risk the death penalty being sought by the state. Her
sentence: 38 years, less the 1 1/2 years she's been in jail. She must serve at
least 85 percent - about 31 years - of the sentence by law.

"She's very distraught," defense attorney Randy Berman said afterwards.

The mother has legal immigrant status, but is not a citizen and can be deported
after finishing her sentence, said assistant public defender Susan Cary, who
helped represent her.

Pascal Estime, 39, pleaded guilty to child neglect leading to great bodily harm
in exchange for a two-year sentence, including time served. He's scheduled for
release on Nov. 21, the day before Thanksgiving.

Both parents have balked at plea deals before, and Friday's hearing was delayed
a half-hour while the father's attorneys tried to explain to him again the offer
that would set him free in six months.

"Mr. Estime objects to spending another six minutes in jail," defense attorney
Mark Wilensky said later.

Part of the deal was that the court not officially sentence him until he's due
to get out, so he can finish his time in the Palm Beach County Jail rather than
go into the state prison system.

Pascal Estime told other people that his wife was abusing Marie and showed
neighbors her bruises and scars, according to court documents. He told his boss
he was afraid of losing his other children if he called police.

Attorneys said the four other children, ages 3, 5, 6 and 9, are living with
relatives.

"Everybody loses in this case," Berman said. "She's lost her child, the father
has lost custody of the rest of the children, and she, in essence, has lost the
bulk of her life."

mary_mclachlin@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer
, Avoiding possible death penalty: Djenane Estime (right) waits for, court to
begin Friday, when she accepted a plea bargain in the death, of her 2-year-old
daughter.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              276 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 19, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CENTER MUST FIND NEW HOME

BYLINE: Alexandra Navarro Clifton, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


A nonprofit that helps thousands of immigrants a year learn to speak English and
decipher immigration paperwork has six months to find a new location.

After eight years of free rent in the Port of Palm Beach's executive plaza on
U.S. 1, the Center for Minority Human Services Providers Inc. has been asked to
leave its offices in the plaza.

Executive Director Elsa Gibbons said she needs 5,000 square feet for office
space and enough room for a technical school the organization opened last year.

"The port has been kind to us for all these years," Gibbons said. "We are very,
very grateful. We understand we have to move."

The building, on the west side of the Skypass bridge, will be demolished to
create cargo space for port tenant Teeters Brothers, port spokesman Don Mathis
said.

The center opened at the port eight years ago to help immigrants fill out
paperwork and educate them about their rights and changes to federal, state and
county laws. It employs six people in the office and eight part-time teachers at
its Technical Professional Skills Institute.

The school teaches nursing, paralegal, and medical assistant courses and finds
jobs for its graduates.

About 600 people have graduated and been placed in jobs since November, Gibbons
said.

A large percentage of the center's clients are migrant farm workers and other
immigrants living below the poverty line. Money to run the center and the school
comes from the state.

But finding a suitable location might be difficult because the center must meet
state standards such as compliance with the American with Disabilities Act.

The new site also must be on at least 1 acre of land, Gibbons said.

"It's not easy because we're a nonprofit, and we need in-kind help," Gibbons
said. "Right now all our money comes from the state, but we need help from the
cities and the county too."

alex_clifton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              277 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 25, 2001 Friday SOUTH EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 162 words


DELRAY BEACH - City police Detective John Young was honored Wednesday by the
Florida branch of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Young,
a 10-year veteran of the force, is part of the juvenile unit of the department's
criminal investigations section. He was the department's officer of the month
once last year after an undercover operation resulted in a conviction for
transmission of child pornography. West Palm Beach police Sgt. Gary Noel and St.
Lucie County sheriff's Detective Neil Spector were similarly honored.

LAKE WORTH - City police with Palm Beach County Sheriff's deputies and agents
from the Florida Division of the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested
17 people Thursday night in a continuing operation to find and deport legal and
illegal immigrants with criminal records. According to the Lake Worth Police
Department those arrested included people from Honduras, Jamaica, Guatemala,
Haiti, Mexico and Spain.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              278 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 29, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

THE SYSTEM LOOSENS UP

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 340 words


Neither the Palm Beach County State Attorney's Office nor the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has a wide reputation for flexibility. More often than
not, they show themselves to be institutions that adhere to strict policies and
guidelines in matters governed by discretion, not the law.

But in the case of Juana Domingo Vargas, the 29-year-old Guatemalan woman
accused of kidnapping a young mother's baby and holding it for ransom, the
usually intransigent justice system took a second look last week and made an
appropriate adjustment. Ms. Vargas spent three months in jail before being
released on $10,000 bond. Kidnapping is normally a non-bondable charge. But the
state attorney's office agreed not to oppose a bond, and the Border Patrol,
which is part of the INS, agreed to lift a jail detainer on Mrs. Vargas after
the agencies examined carefully the unusual circumstances that are peculiar to
the case.

Ms. Vargas, a legal, tax-paying immigrant who has lived in the United States for
about 15 years, has four young daughters, 9 years old and younger, all of whom
are U.S. citizens. She has no criminal history but, rather, a record of public
service within her Guatemalan neighborhood in Lake Worth. Her release poses no
threat to the community, and a stipulation of the bond requires her to report to
court officials each week.

Ruth Martinez, Ms. Vargas' attorney, says a cultural misunderstanding led to the
arrest. Ms. Martinez says Ms. Vargas was attempting to help an unwed mother,
also from Guatemala, who couldn't care for the baby. The attorney claims that
what took place was an adoption arrangement between the two women, done in a way
that is common in their homeland.

When the case comes to trial in a few months, a judge and jury will try to sort
out whether a crime occurred or the system hit a cultural speed bump. In the
meantime, four children will be reunited with their mother because prosecutors
and immigration officials were willing to look beyond policy and do the right
thing.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              279 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 30, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

POLICE LOOK INTO DEADLY IMMIGRANT DROP-OFF

BYLINE: Antigone Barton, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 373 words


Palm Beach police officer Michael Dawson already had found two wet and exhausted
people on the road shouting in Creole, and two more on the sand Monday night.

Moonlight showed him the face of a woman screaming from the water. He pulled off
his equipment and uniform and swam about 100 yards out to her.

"Port au Prince?" he said when he reached her, wanting to calm her by saying
something familiar. The woman nodded and clung to a floating buoy he had brought
and used to pull her ashore.

About an hour later Dawson discovered another member of the woman's group, a
man, had died in the water. Learning of the death made the rescue off the 1500
block of South Ocean Boulevard "bittersweet," he said.

The woman and eight other survivors were headed for the Krome Detention Center
in Miami on Tuesday evening after a day of questioning in Riviera Beach as U.S.
Border Patrol agents investigated their disastrous journey.

The six men and three women traveled from Haiti and are in the country
illegally, a Border Patrol spokesman said.

Agents would not say what they learned about who brought the group to U.S.
waters and left them to swim ashore in the dark.

The outcome of their investigation will determine what charges will be brought
in connection with the man's death, a Palm Beach police spokeswoman said.

Haitian community leaders sought Tuesday to identify the man who died.

It is not the first time an immigrant group's quest for better lives has ended
tragically on South Florida shores, said Haitian American Community Council
director Daniella Henry. Of the many Haitian immigrants who "regularly" come to
South Florida, Henry said, four have been discovered drowned in the last two
years alone.

More may have died in similar circumstances during that time without being
found, Henry said.

In 1994, four immigrants drowned off the Martin County coast after a smuggler
known as Captain Jump Off made them get out in the ocean. The smuggler, a boat
captain named Richard B. Barker of West Palm Beach, served less than four years
in prison after he was found guilty of negligent manslaughter. Barker was
sentenced to life in prison on drug smuggling charges in 1999.

antigone_barton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              280 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 1, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

TO THE CLEANERS: OPPRESSED IMMIGRANTS, INVISIBLE AND, OF COURSE, IN LOVE

BYLINE: Hap Erstein, Palm Beach Post Film Writer

SECTION: TGIF, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 571 words


British filmmaker Kenneth Loach has devoted his career to impassioned
socio-political tales that champion the plight of the downtrodden. Although he
leaves his native land for the first time to dramatize the struggle of a group
of non-union office janitors in Los Angeles, his focus remains the same.
Predictible and frequently heavy-handed, Bread and Roses is nonetheless a
fervent reminder that unfair working conditions are hardly foreign to our
shores.

Made last year and screened in April during the Palm Beach International Film
Festival, Bread and Roses returns for a commercial run just ahead of the
possible head-on collision between the Hollywood studios and the Screen Actors
Guild. If that happens, it will be a much-reported dispute, in contrast to the
little-known difficulties that Loach relates of the largely Latino, often
illegal alien community that invisibly cleans high-rise buildings, frequently
for poverty-level wages. Although fictionalized, Bread and Roses is based on an
actual unionization campaign called Justice for Janitors of the early 1990s.

It is a story about immigrants that we see through Loach's immigrant eyes. They
are images glimpsed by a stranger in the strange office canyons of Los Angeles,
shot with a flat, unflashy documentary-like style. It opens, however, with a
hand-held camera's eye view of the harrowing border crossing of a young,
attractive woman named Maya (film newcomer Pilar Padilla), brought to the States
by her older sister Rosa (Elpidia Carillo, of Salvador and My Family), but
nearly raped by one of her transporters.

Although eager to gain work cleaning the offices alongside Rosa, Maya soon
learns of the conditions - low pay, no insurance and only as much job security
as the whims of oppressive boss Perez afford. Soon after Maya sees how the
ironically named Angel cleaning company works, up crops activist Sam Shapiro
(Adrien Brody of Liberty Heights) to rouse the rabble.

He gathers the workers for his canned speech of organizing rhetoric, promising
relief from their lousy conditions, but it mostly falls on deaf, skeptical ears.
Only Maya is new enough to this country and idealistic enough to believe and
support Sam's promises. In addition - hey, this is an entertainment, after all -
a tentative romance blossoms between them. Even more melodramatically, Maya
tries to encourage a co-worker named Ruben whose scholarship to law school hangs
in the balance.

Sam, considered a loose cannon even by the union, stages guerrilla-tactics
demonstrations, including an amusing infiltration of a cocktail party thrown by
the building's largest tenant, an entertainment law firm. Gradually, Sam makes
enough of a nuisance of himself to make some progress, but in the film's most
powerfully dramatic scene, Rosa explains to her sister the depths of her
situation, why she cannot afford to risk what little she has for the vague hope
of something better.

Bread and Roses - the title refers to a union demonstration chant - is
ultimately more about politics than film artistry, but viewers may just see the
janitorial staff in their offices in a different light afterward.

Now showing at: Crown Abacoa 16, Delray 18, Shadowood 16.

BREAD AND ROSES

Two and one half stars

- Rated R: Language and brief nudity.

- Running time: 1 hour, 50 minutes

- The verdict: Union organizing melodrama wears its political heart on its
sleeve.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              281 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 4, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

...AND BE GENEROUS WITH 'AMERICAN' LABEL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 642 words


Americans have spent close to 400 years advancing the cause of immigration and
trying to understand it. A nation created and sustained by immigrants remains
perpetually perplexed by them. Even at this late date, Americans stumble over
definitions, torture ourselves with statistics and worry about what a 280
million-case identity crisis might feel like.

The world looks to us as the model for growth through assimilation, yet aspiring
melting pots must discard parts of the example. Start with laws written in 1996,
when terrorist fears reached a critical mass of bipartisanship in a Congress
facing elections. Foreigners took the fall. Last week, the Supreme Court threw
out some of that misguided lawmaking. The justices ruled that immigrants are
entitled to due process - court hearings to contest deportations - and
protection from retroactive statutes. The court also said immigrants convicted
of crimes cannot be held long after serving sentences simply because the
government can't find a place to which it can deport them.

Beyond tens of thousands of immigrants, the decisions affect everyone else in
the United States because they sharpen the idea of America itself. The justices
correctly said that while foreigners are not entitled to all the privileges of
citizenship, basic rights apply to all people who come through our national
door: They should receive fair treatment, they should have their day in court,
and their punishments should fit their crimes. All are inherently American
ideals - and intense debates over them in the 225th year of the republic might
astonish some of those present at the republic's creation. Still, the court
split 5-4 in its rulings. Nothing divides America down the middle quite like
immigration.

Americans like to assign attributes to immigrants based on comparisons with
themselves. We look most kindly on immigrants who are part of or grow near our
family tree. The further back in time, the more noble the arrival. Those who
came through Ellis Island a century ago acquire heroic adjectives from admiring
descendants; those who just crossed the U.S.-Mexico border find no warm
descriptions, though they do understand that at least a minimum-wage job is
waiting. The new wave of immigrants looks different and speaks differently than
the old, and Americans notice that, though America professes not to. The 2000
Census found the nation to be one-eighth Hispanic, but we're still not 100
percent sure what Hispanic means. Politics distorts that which isn't already
ambiguous.

The Congress that passed those draconian laws five years ago would have
preferred that Tim McVeigh grew up in suburban Baghdad instead of suburban
Buffalo. Those who characterize immigrant workers as a drain on the economy
forget that immigrants pay more in taxes than they use in services. Those who
want to seal U.S. borders do not say who will replace immigrants in the labor
force. Immigrant entrepreneurs started Intel and Sun Microsystems, yet rarely
does anyone use the term immigrant to describe them.

Foreigners who work in the field are immigrants; those in boardrooms tend to be
described with a nationality, a hyphen and the crowning blessing of "American."
Nobody dares call Sammy Sosa a Dominican immigrant; he's the Chicago Cubs'
slugger. Many so-called "migrant" farm workers aren't migrant anymore; they are
permanent residents. Labels always are important when they're self-inflicted.

Immigration perplexes Americans because it creates change, which is unsettling
enough. But it also compounds because of what changes: our perception of
ourselves. Immigration ensures that the United States remains a vibrant work in
progress, which is both an enormous strength and a constant consternation. The
nation never may fully reconcile the two, but we'll prosper according to how
close we come.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              282 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 14, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

BORDERING ON PROGRESS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 427 words


The United States and Mexican governments are talking about ways to make
migration across their border mutually beneficial. This is a quiet breakthrough;
until recently, both sides considered the problem domestic and approached it
unilaterally.

Mexican immigration has increased markedly in a relatively short time, according
to a report released Thursday by the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington-based group that favors tighter borders. In 1970, the Mexican
immigrant population in the United States was less than 800,000, compared with
nearly 8 million last year. The flow of Mexican workers is overwhelmingly
unskilled, a CIS study found, with almost two-thirds of the adult Mexican
immigrants failing to complete high school. Bringing in unskilled workers tends
to reduce wages for American workers who already are the lowest-paid in the
chain and whose real earnings declined steadily through the economic boom of the
1990s.

Yet because of the strong economy, many unskilled native workers have acquired
skills and risen to better jobs. Mexican immigration has been essential in
helping fill the unwanted positions they left behind. In places such as Iowa,
the shortage of laborers is so acute that the state government recruits
immigrants. The Mexican economy benefits from the $6 billion annually that
migrants in the United States, legal and illegal, send back to their cities and
villages. The lure of migration has drained many of those communities of young
men, however, and the Border Patrol's concentrated enforcement approach has
heightened the danger of crossing illegally.

In fact, most Mexicans who come here do not want permanent residency. They seek
seasonal or temporary employment, then want to return home with their earnings.
U.S. immigration policy has no practical way to address this, taking instead an
all-or-nothing approach to entry.

A guest-worker program, allowing measured migration, is the obvious solution,
but it faces opposition from the left and right. Advocates of immigration
restrictions argue against making it easier to import more unskilled and
uneducated laborers, and advocates for immigrants' rights worry that a new
guest-worker program will permit employers to exploit workers the way previous
federal programs have done.

The hope in the talks between the two nations is that both sides will learn from
the ample supply of past mistakes. A bilateral guest-worker program with the
right safeguards is the sensible alternative to the futile, dangerous border
game both sides play.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              283 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 15, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

DUTY, HONOR, BUT WHERE'S THE COUNTRY?

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 772 words


President Bush went to New York City last week and proposed a good, ambitious
mission. He wants to spend $500 million so immigrants who are eligible to become
citizens don't have to wait more than six months for processing.

Even if the president, as his critics suggest, offered the proposal to increase
his standing among voters who are recent immigrants, the goal makes sense. As
the president noted, the fact that America is the world's most popular
immigration market is a compliment, not a problem.

But while Mr. Bush is setting lofty goals for government's most basic functions,
he shouldn't overlook another group. Its members already are Americans. These
Americans served their country in war, and all of them have been waiting much
longer than six months for basic services their country owes them.

I speak of the nation's veterans, particularly those who live in Florida. They
served in World War II, Korea and Vietnam, and all they want is for America to
help them with problems they encountered as a result of that service. But they
are stuck in a state where, as editorials and columns in this section have
shown, they get the justified sense that the country has forgotten them.

Florida vets may have it the worst

Roughly 1.7 million veterans live in Florida, and many of them are among the
nation's oldest. They must wait nearly 18 months - at minimum - for the
Department of Veterans Affairs to process their service-related claim for, say,
hearing damage. Until recently, it was a struggle just to get a hearing aid.

If the VA is dysfunctional nationwide, it's worse than that in Florida. One
office, in St. Petersburg, handles all claims within the state. When the VA
spent money on a new computer to speed up processing, the wait actually
lengthened. A 76-year-old vet must wonder whether he will be alive when the VA
resolves his claim.

I don't mean to pit immigrants against vets. The INS and the VA both should work
better, and it might happen if more members of Congress and the Washington press
corps paid attention to what government is doing - or not doing. But the
injustice to the vets is profound. I think so even more after last month.

Vacationing in France, I visited the American cemetery at Colleville-sur-Mer,
the village that on June 6, 1944, lay just behind Omaha Beach. If you have been
there, you will understand. If you haven't, I hope you can get there. You may
have seen the last, moving scene of Saving Private Ryan, where the grown Ryan
visits the grave of Tom Hanks' character, but it is nothing compared to being
there.

The feeling is more profound respect than sorrow. Indeed, a sign advises
visitors to honor the dead not with tears but with solemnity. The killing ground
of 57 years ago has become a manicured shrine to peace and the sacrifices behind
it.

Headstones drive home the point

The nearly 10,000 headstones are aligned so perfectly that you can look down a
row and see the break where a Star of David sits between the crosses. Many
markers indicate the remains of a soldier "known but to God." Medal of Honor
names are etched in gold.

Visitors can peel off from the markers and walk to an overlook above the beach.
In all likelihood, you stand where German gunners rained fire on American
troops. Today, anyone can walk down a winding path to the wide beach, which is
beautiful. Stay long enough and you see a D-Day vet and his family. You don't
have to ask. They act differently. So do the people who look at a headstone with
an emotion far more profound than respect or curiosity.

It is an engrossing, captivating journey along the Normandy beaches, from Ste.
Mere-Eglise - the first town the invaders liberated - near Utah Beach eastward
to Omaha - an incongruous sign along the road advertises "Play Golf at Omaha
Beach" - and beyond to Gold, Juno and Sword beaches, where the British, the
Canadians, the French and the Australians took on the Germans. One of the
exhibits at the paratrooper museum in Ste. Mere-Eglise is a V-Mail from a
soldier who wrote that even if he didn't come back, he believed in what he was
fighting for. He didn't come back. Another is a dollar bill that three buddies
tore into thirds, planning to put the pieces back together once they got to
France. The middle section is missing.

Those men have comrades in Florida who deserve more than a tribute every
Veterans Day. The silence at Colleville-sur-Mer is moving. The silence from the
VA is appalling.

Randy Schultz is editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. Comments
about the Opinion section may be sent to him at schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              284 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 19, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

31 HAITIANS DETAINED AFTER WADING ASHORE

BYLINE: Barney Gimbel, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 235 words


A total of 31 Haitian immigrants were detained by officers early Wednesday
morning after coming ashore in Riviera Beach and Palm Beach.

Police said the two groups, which included 30 men and one woman, were most
likely smuggled from Haiti aboard two speedboats that dropped the immigrants
close to shore.

Border Patrol Assistant Chief Dean Sinclair said the first group, which included
16 men, was apprehended by Riviera Beach police at about 1:45 a.m. The men, who
were reportedly wearing bandanas and carrying bags, were found on the beach in
back of the Water Glades Condominiums at 5540 N. Ocean Drive.

The second group was found by Palm Beach officers responding to a report of
suspicious people walking along the 800 block of South County Road. Police
immediately found seven men who had wet pant legs and sand on their shoes.
Officers later found five men and a woman on El Brillo and South County roads,
and then two more men near Hammond and South County roads, Sinclair said.

No smugglers were apprehended and officials were not sure if the same people
were responsible for both groups.

Sinclair said immigrants typically paid smugglers up to $5,000 to get to the
United States and were often crammed in small boats that travel at night.

All of the immigrants were in good condition and were transported to the Krome
Detention Center near Miami.

barney_gimbel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              285 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 29, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

ALLOW TRAVEL TO CUBA - FOR CRIMINALS, TOO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 420 words


The Supreme Court opened the cell doors for 3,399 immigrant detainees last month
when it ruled that the government could not keep them imprisoned indefinitely
because their homelands won't take them back.

This group includes many people convicted of killings and other violent crimes.
In many cases, prosecutors agreed to softer sentences, believing that detention
or deportation would keep the immigrants locked up after their terms expired.
Law-enforcement officials warned that the court's ruling would put some
dangerous people back in the community, and last week, that happened when
Virgilio Paz Romero walked out of an Immigration and Naturalization Service
center in Bradenton, south of Tampa.

In 1991, Paz pleaded guilty to what federal authorities call the most notorious
act of terrorism ever perpetrated in Washington - the 1976 Embassy Row
car-bombing that killed Chilean Ambassador Orlando Letelier and Ronni Moffitt,
wife of one of his aides. Prosecutors said Paz, a Cuban exile, detonated the
bomb he had planted with two other men in retaliation for the Chilean
government's friendly relations with Fidel Castro. After the bombing, Paz was a
fugitive for 13 years, much of that in Palm Beach County, before his arrest and
conviction. He had served about half of a 12-year sentence when the government
paroled him in 1998, and INS officials immediately took him into custody.

Federal officials would like to send Paz back to Cuba but can't because the
United States has no deportation agreement with Castro. The government will find
itself in the same predicament about 3,398 times in the weeks ahead at prisons
and detention centers across the country. The INS says it will try to keep
holding immigrants who are severely mentally ill or a threat to U.S. security.
Attorney General John Ashcroft may try to pressure countries that don't accept
deportations by denying visas. Blame much of the scrambling on bad plea deals
based on false assumptions.

Concurrent with Paz's release, the U.S. House approved an amendment that would
ease restrictions on travel to Cuba. Supporters included many Republicans who
correctly believe it is time to make U.S. policy toward Cuba consistent with
Vietnam, China and North Korea. The movement in Congress in no way endorses the
Castro regime but seeks to undermine it with a new approach. More open travel,
which Cuba wants, should come with a deportation agreement so exiled terrorists
know their crimes on U.S. soil can land them in a Havana prison.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              286 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 12, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN MIGRANTS DREAM, DIE WARNINGS ABOUT ARIZONA DESERT IGNORED

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1030 words

DATELINE: TOHONO O'ODHAM RESERVATION, ARIZONA


Before they die, some of the dreamers who walk through this desert shriek,
hallucinate and wander in circles.

Others, parched by the furnace-like heat, collapse and never regain
consciousness.

Every day, Mexican migrants defy warnings that they avoid entering the United
States through this vast mesquite- and cactus-dotted American Indian reservation
that nudges against the Mexican state of Sonora.

And they continue to die.

Fleeing subsistence farming or wages that barely buy food, migrants are
fortifying themselves with promises that jobs await them in such states as
Tennessee, New York, California, North Carolina, Texas, Georgia and Illinois.

Evidence also is growing that migrants are embarking on their risky journeys in
anticipation of a possible U.S. amnesty for the undocumented.

Mexican President Vicente Fox will visit President Bush in Washington next
month, when the two leaders may announce proposals to reduce illegal immigration
with a legalization program and guestworker visas.

"That was one of the reasons I wanted my family to be here," admitted Anicito
Padilla, a native of the Mexican state of Guanajuato, who has worked for two
years at a Clearwater restaurant.

Padilla's voice quivered with regret last Wednesday as he reflected on how his
wife, Maria, and their six children had nearly died in their attempt to join
him.

Maria gave most of their supply of water and food to her children during what
turned out to be a three-day walk through the reservation west of Tucson. They
suffered a nearly fatal experience that Padilla had not imagined when he hired
smugglers who promised him the trip would just last six hours.

"When my mother began to look bad, the last guide who was with us disappeared,"
said 14-year-old Jose Padilla, Maria's son, who carried his 2-year-old sister as
the family struggled on.

Maria was fortunate the family was only 15 minutes from a highway when she
collapsed last Monday. A special U.S. Border Patrol unit called BorStar - or
Border Search, Trauma and Rescue - came to her aid.

But that same day, Santiago Pacheco, a 35-year-old father of two, wasn't so
lucky.

Pacheco collapsed after he and a group of others from their village in the
Mixtec Indian territory of Oaxaca state had been walking around the clock for
three days, perhaps traveling more than 80 miles.

As two of the group went for help, three others, including two 16-year-olds,
remained with the dying man.

BorStar agents launched a desperate search. A U.S. Customs helicopter flew over
the area where the migrants thought they had left their four friends.

Three of the four migrants were rescued when they were found wandering on the
northeastern edge of the reservation, not far from the Phoenix suburb of Casa
Grande. They told agents that Pacheco was already dead.

"Don't forget this day the rest of your lives. There are many dead people out
there," agent Dave Howard said in Spanish, as the men nodded and looked away.

They tried to explain why dreams supercede fear. None said they were aware of a
possible amnesty. But they knew they could earn more money in a few weeks than
they could in a year at home.

"We try to grow corn," said Felipe Pacheco, 33, bitterly emphasizing "try."

"Our government doesn't help us at all," he said. "Everyone at home sees that
those who work in the United States can buy a car, build a house and work
honestly. Others feel left behind. We made a pact to go, live or die."

The next day, Santiago Pacheco's body was recovered from the desert. He was the
68th migrant to die since last October along the 281-mile stretch of border
surveyed by the U.S. Border Patrol in Tucson.

Urban vigilance increased

More than 270 migrants have been rescued here. They are typically transported to
the border town of Nogales and sent back into Mexico.

Some, lost or abandoned by smugglers, walk to highways to turn themselves in.

In 1994, in an attempt to curb illegal immigration, the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service beefed up vigilance in urban areas that were once the
traditional corridors migrants used. That left wilderness areas like the Arizona
desert.

A report issued this month by the U.S. General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, echoes seven years of complaints about the policy
from migrant advocates.

Advocates have argued that U.S. employers are still eager to hire the
undocumented, but immigrants are forced, now more than ever, to risk their lives
to get to those jobs.

INS data show that 1,013 migrants died crossing the entire U.S.-Mexico border
between October 1997 and June 2001. Thirty percent died of heat exposure, and 29
percent drowned.

"While migrants have always faced danger crossing the border and many died
before INS began its strategy, the strategy has resulted in an increase in
exposure from heat or cold," the GAO found.

The INS, the GAO added, is grappling with a problem it didn't anticipate - the
sheer determination of migrants.

BorStar Agent Garett Neubauer examined a hideout next to a highway in the desert
littered with empty bottles of water, electrolyte solution, old clothes,
toothbrushes and diapers.

He found a notebook with phone numbers of a migrant's contact in North Carolina.

"They come here to wait for rides that pick them up after they walk," Neubauer
said. He kicked over a bottle filled with dirty water accumulated from summer
rainstorms.

"I don't know whether to leave that water for them to drink, or pour it out," he
said. "It's dirty and can make them sick, and then they're even more
dehydrated."

Thursday a special task force on migration set up in February by Fox and Bush
met in Washington, advancing the controversial possibility of granting Mexicans
temporary work visas and perhaps legalizing some who are already in the United
States. Congress must approve such reforms.

The task force includes Secretary of State Colin Powell - who said the group is
not in a rush to offer proposals - as well as Attorney General John Ashcroft,
Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda and Mexican Interior Minister Santiago
Creel.

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) & MAP (B&W), 1. RICK McKAY/Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

, Border Patrol agents Hecter Mejia (left) and Gerardo Carrasco (right), search
for missing migrants. With the agents are two migrants helping, to look for
others who made the crossing with them.< 2. STAFF, GRAPHIC
, Tohono O'Odham Nation.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              287 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 17, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

HISPANICS WARN REPUBLICANS NOT TO BACKPEDAL ON AMNESTY

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hispanics are telling the Bush administration that anything less than
large-scale amnesty for illegal immigrants will set back Republican attempts to
woo their fast-growing voter bloc.

The blunt warning is being given "every which way we can think of," said Cecilia
Munoz, vice president for policy for the Hispanic advocacy group, National
Council of La Raza.

La Raza and other groups are arguing that expectations cannot be rolled back
after news reports last month said the White House was considering legalization
for Mexicans now living here illegally. Their numbers are now estimated at 4.5
million - or higher.

Amid criticism from his own party, Bush has since appeared to backpedal by
saying he opposes "blanket amnesty."

But La Raza and other groups are saying that reversing would hurt his efforts to
court Hispanics.

"At the very least it's going to look bad if they don't give something close" to
mass amnesty, said Angelo Amador, legislative counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund. He said his group is seeking legal status
for Mexicans and all other qualified foreign nationals who have been here since
about 1990 or 1992.

If the Bush administration does not make such an offer, Amador said, Democrats
will beat the Republicans to the punch by offering their own bill and faulting
the president for failing to deliver.

La Raza official Charles Kamasaki echoed that view. "People are really
connecting Bush now with a legalization," he said. "To come out with something
that's not legalization would be extraordinarily damaging."

For that reason, pro-amnesty groups focused on a few words spoken last weekend
by Andrew Card, the White House chief of staff.

Asked whether the White House planned to grant permanent resident status to
Mexicans who have come here to work and stayed illegally, Card said on Fox News
Sunday that if employers can be matched with employees, then the employees
"should be able to stay and gain access to a so-called green card." Green card
is the term used for a U.S. residency permit.

It is far from certain how congressional Republicans will respond to such a
plan, however.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., is pushing hard against any form of amnesty. He has
won a commitment from Bush's top political aide, Karl Rove, for a meeting with
16 lawmakers seeking more restrictions on immigration.

"My best guess is that plain old amnesty like we did in 1986 would not be
possible in this Congress," Tancredo said, referring to a law which legalized
nearly 3 million undocumented immigrants but failed in its goal of stopping the
illegal migration over the U.S. borders.

The number of illegal foreign residents today has soared to 8.5 million,
according to an estimate released this week by the non-partisan Urban Institute.

juliam@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

National Council of La Raza:

www.nclr.org

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              288 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 20, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

JUGGLING POLICY BETWEEN 'WELCOME' AND 'GET OUT'

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 430 words


The Bush administration put the words amnesty and immigrants into the same
sentence last month and now faces strategic dilemmas that make stem-cell
politics seem simple.

Republicans desperately want to mine voters from the fast-growing Hispanic
population, and one way to do that is to do something for the nation's estimated
4.5 million undocumented Mexican immigrants. When President Bush mentioned
amnesty, it horrified his party's right wing. Amnesty suggests capitulation,
surrender and open borders, none of which appeals to conservatives. White House
aides backed off, saying what the president meant was to match employers here
with employees from down there - a new guest worker program that would allow
immigrants residency. That revision falls well short of amnesty, and immigrant
advocacy groups warn of a backlash if expectations go unsatisfied.

Democrats, meanwhile, the traditional party of immigrants in general and
Hispanics in particular, are poised to pile on criticism and claim victory
either way: If the president grants amnesty, he divides his own party; if he
doesn't, he drives more Hispanics to the Democratic Party.

Complicating everything is the usual ambiguity. No one knows how many immigrants
are here illegally. Estimates range between 7 million and 9 million, with
Mexicans probably making up more than half. President Bush's revised rhetoric
rejects "blanket amnesty," raising the suggestion he might deal with the
Mexicans separately as a border issue and worry about other undocumented
populations - Colombians, Guatemalans, Nicaraguans, Brazilians, Jamaicans,
Chinese, etc. - later, if at all. U.S. immigration policy has a long history of
picking winners and losers to suit the politics of the moment, so no one should
be surprised if it happens again. Unlike many other foreigners, most Mexicans
who come here want to return home after earning money, a compelling argument for
finding a guest worker program that is fair and feasible.

Mexican President Vicente Fox is scheduled to visit President Bush at the White
House next month. Realities should shape their talks and search for a whole
solution to a complex problem: Their two countries have a mutually beneficial
economic relationship, millions of Mexicans are already here and attempts to
seal their border with police will never work. New law might succeed where U.S.
Customs officers have failed and bring order to the border. Secretary of State
Colin Powell calls it a "legal path" - a term far less politically charged than
amnesty, but no easier to spell out.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              289 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 24, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

SPECIAL PROGRAM LET IN UKRAINIAN NORMAL DOCUMENTATION WASN'T REQUIRED OF
CALIFORNIA MURDER SUSPECT

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The case of a 27-year-old Ukrainian suspected of stabbing to death six relatives
in California has put a spotlight on a special program for admitting thousands
of refugees into the United States each year.

Nikolay Soltys, an unemployed shoemaker accused of killing his pregnant wife,
son and four other relatives, had come here as part of a program for religious
refugees from the former Soviet Union.

U.S. background checks for refugees, a category set up for victims of political
or religious persecution, are somewhat less stringent than for the more than 1
million other immigrants seeking to come into the country, said Bill
Strassberger, spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Regular immigrants must provide a police clearance from their local authorities,
whereas refugees, who are expected to number 80,000 this year, are not required
to produce such a document.

"In the case of a refugee, often that is not available," Strassberger said, and
so American officials rely on questioning the applicant. "We do our best to
screen out those individuals who do have things in their history that would
prevent them from being allowed to enter the United States."

Strassberger, who declined to discuss the specifics of the Soltys case, citing
privacy concerns, said that the agency was "satisfied" with its current
procedures for screening out undesirable people.

Judy Golub, chief lobbyist for the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
defended the INS efforts.

"There's rigorous tests done," she said. "Despite those tests, sometimes
something happens."

However, she said that problems such as Soltys are notable because they are so
rare.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
agreed, saying that one apparent murderer does not provide an argument against
immigration or refugees and they should not become a "scapegoat."

However, he said that the case "serves as a useful reminder to highlight the
importance of visa officials overseas as American's other border patrol."

Ukrainian officials, for example, told The Associated Press that Soltys suffered
from mental problems that caused the Ukrainian army to reject him. The AP also
has reported that he was accused, although never convicted, of domestic abuse of
his first wife.

Soltys arrived in New York in 1998 and lived with relatives there before moving
to California, where he was recently joined by his second wife and their son,
arriving from Ukraine. They were living near Sacramento, in a community of
Ukrainians and Russians.

The refugee program under which he entered he country, named for former New
Jersey Democratic Sen. Frank Lautenberg, passed in 1989. It gives special
refugee status to Ukrainian Catholics, Ukrainian Orthodox believers, Evangelical
Christians and Jews from the former Soviet Union.

The program has continued, despite a relaxation of much of the religious
persecution by the now-defunct communist government.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Nikolay Soltys (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              290 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 27, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

FROM JAMAICA WITH HOPES AND DREAMS: A CITIZEN, AT LAST

BYLINE: Carol Rose, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1618 words


Immigrants darting between cars, focused on their destination.

This isn't a U.S. border town. It's Miami Beach on July 20, shortly before a
noon swearing-in ceremony for 3,000 people who soon would become American
citizens.

I was one of that group, who represented 103 countries.

Although this was a day I had long looked forward to, there were many mixed
feelings. My sister-in-law had died the previous week, and her funeral was
scheduled for later that day.

The convention center was packed with new citizens and their families.

There was little pomp and no speeches - those had been given at the 8 a.m.
swearing-in, which also produced 3,000 new citizens. The group was led in the
oath of allegiance by an immigration judge, and though the words came easily off
my tongue, mentally I hesitated at the part that renounced loyalty to my
homeland.

There was the Pledge of Allegiance, and then it was over. We got our
certificates and exited the hall as some of the nation's newest Americans.

My thoughts about the whole process had been percolating for quite some time . .
.

Aware of America's lure

America and its possibilities always have been a part of my existence. Born in
the rural district of Devon in the parish of Manchester in Jamaica. I was aware,
even in my early years, of the lure this place holds. I'd venture to say that
nearly everyone in my district had a relative who had emigrated to the U.S.

This was the '60s, and with Jamaica gaining independence in 1962, Britain, the
island's former colonizer, was no longer the primary destination for those who
wanted to seek a better life.

I had ties to America through my parents, Jefferson and Sylvia Mayne. My
mother's sister lived in the U.S., and my father had family here, also. My aunt
on my mother's side was a constant presence. She would visit whenever she came
home and often brought gifts.

For kids who rarely got store-bought clothes or toys, those gifts were huge. I
still can recall the thrill when Aunt Valda brought my sister Grace and me our
first dolls. My oldest sister, Myrna, and brothers Donovan and Gregory also
benefited from her largesse.

So, we knew America was a place that had really nice things. Of course, what we
saw on TV confirmed our impressions. We grew up on Sesame Street and The
Electric Company. As the 1970s progressed, there were The Partridge Family and
Julia, starring Diahann Carroll. My mother loved that show, especially since
Carroll's character, like my mother, was a nurse.

And all along, there were the pictures of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King
Jr., two of my mother's heroes, that hung on the walls of our living room, along
with photos of Marcus Garvey, Jesus and Norman Manley and Alexander Bustamante,
key architects of Jamaican independence.

Unrest in Kingston

Toward the end of the '70s, America became part of my reality on another level.

Jamaica was in a political quagmire. The capital city, Kingston, where I lived
at the time was ground zero for the violence, and those who could were
hightailing it to Miami.

When the election of 1980 was over, an estimated 800 (the number still is
debated) people had been killed.

In America, Ronald Reagan had found success at the polls. Shortly after his
inauguration, Jamaica's newly elected prime minister, Edward Seaga, was invited
to Washington, one of the first leaders to meet with the new president.

My life continued apace. I started at the University of the West Indies in 1981,
in search of a degree in mass communication. During my years at the university,
I tried to get a U.S. visitor's visa but was turned down. Getting a visa seemed
to be the luck of the draw.

In 1985, I started working as a reporter for Jampress, part of the government
information system. In 1987, my life was forever changed. I became pregnant with
my first child, Brian. His father, Morton, had realized his plans to study
engineeering at Howard University in Washington, and I encouraged him to pursue
his dreams.

That same year, I was chosen to participate in a U.S. Agency for International
Development program for local journalists.

Finally, I would visit the United States.

Encounter with panhandler

My most dramatic introduction to America came when I visited Washington. I was
in the train station, anticipating my first trip on the Metro, when a woman
appeared out of nowhere, asking me for a quarter. She looked like hell. I was
shocked. I had never seen a white person in that condition.

Then there was the was the poverty among the city's residents. I could not
believe that people lived like that so close to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. I
returned home to Jamaica with a greater understanding of America and its
complexities.

Over the next few years, I regularly visited relatives, and when Morton left
Howard, he took a job with an engineering firm in Ohio. He (and my son) had
gained permanent resident status via his mother.

My career was progressing well - I was rising at the Gleaner newspaper - and he
was getting settled in his, so the issue became one of choices. I eventually
chose to pack it all in and head to Ohio. We were married in February 1993 and
started the paperwork for my permanent settlement.

I knew that to make it in this country, I would have to get a degree from a U.S.
institution. Ohio State was the logical choice, so in the fall of 1993, I headed
to grad school, and my son Brian was off to kindergarten.

Green card issued

During the next few years, I had my daughter, Maya, and lectured journalism
students at OSU after getting a work permit. My husband became a U.S. citizen in
August 1996. Spouses of citizens get priority in the immigration process, so by
January 1997, I had my permanent resident (green) card. My son Chad was born
that summer.

Toward the end of the year, I decided to reclaim my career.

We always knew we wouldn't stay in Columbus forever, so this seemed like a good
time to set our sights elsewhere. I landed a job with The Post in July 1998, and
here I remain.

My son Brian became a citizen in 1999, after delays caused by our moving to
Florida.

Last October, I put in the paperwork for my citizenship since people who are
married to citizens can apply after three years as permanent residents. In
March, I was called for an interview, which included answering questions on
American history and institutions. I needed little preparation.

My sojourn through the Immigration and Naturalization Service ended on July 20.

Once we entered the hall, we were directed to our seats, each of which had a
voter registration card. Our permanent resident cards were taken, and we were
given a welcome letter from President Bush.

I sat next to a Cuban woman in a wheelchair who had given birth three days
earlier. She checked out of a West Palm Beach hospital and came straight to
Miami. She knew, as all immigrants do, that if the INS gives you a date, you
keep it.

The quiet ceremony was punctuated by applause as different countries were
called. Some people wore red, white and blue hats and carried tiny American
flags. Then we were handed a certificate of naturalization, confirming our
citizenship.

Outside, people hugged and took pictures. Others, like myself, darted between
cars in a hurry to resume our lives. Only this time, we were American citizens.

Made peace with decision

My American journey is far from over. I know that the workings of the society
are complex. And it sometimes saddens me that I likely will never return home
permanently. But I've made peace with my decision.

There are other issues I must face, having decided to live here. The most
prickly for me is racism. It is something I have yet to confront, unless maybe
I'm too naive to notice.

My oldest son, however, has not been so lucky. He has been called "nigger" a few
times.

I tell him he can't change the way people feel about him if they are going to be
biased based solely on his color and that he has a heritage of which he can be
proud and he must never let anyone belittle him. He's under no illusions and
knows that as he gets older, racism likely is something that could get ugly.

After all, at 13, he's fast losing that cute little boy look. Further, I stress
the importance of doing well in school because that's the one thing no one can
ever take from him. That piece of advice seems to be taking hold. But I worry
for kids who do not get quality education. In America, as in Jamaica, the
poorest children are in the worst schools, a situation that hinders their
likelihood for success.

In the end, though, my journey has shown me that despite the problems, the
possibilities of America can become realities.

And a poem from my childhood, written by Claude McKay, another Jamaican who left
his homeland, keeps me tied to the land of my birth:

The Spanish Needle

Lovely dainty Spanish needle

With your yellow flower and white,

Dew bedecked and softly sleeping,

Do you think of me to-night?

Shadowed by the spreading mango,

Nodding o'er the rippling stream,

Tell me, dear plant of my childhood,

Do you of the exile dream?

Do you see me by the brook's side

Catching crayfish 'neath the stone,

As you did the day you whispered:

Leave the harmless dears alone?

Do you see me in the meadow

Coming from the woodland spring

With a bamboo on my shoulder

And a pail slung from a string?

Do you see me all expectant

Lying in an orange grove,

While the swee-swees sing above me,

Waiting for my elf-eyed love?

Lovely dainty Spanish needle,

Source to me of sweet delight,

In your far-off sunny southland

Do you dream of me to-night?

carol_rose@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W), 1. (C) Carol Rose, who joined The Palm Beach Post in
1998 as, a news-desk copy editor, now copy-edits Neighborhood Post.
, 2. (B&W) Photo courtesy of Carol Rose
, PRESENTS FROM AMERICA: Carol (left), 4, and her sister, Grace Mayne,, 6, in
Jamaica with dolls given to them by their aunt. Grace is now a, nurse in Miami.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              291 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 4, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

RADICALS' CENSORSHIP UNTHINKABLE IN AMERICA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 99 words


We are a nation of immigrants. It is a sad day when a few radicals can
intimidate the Kravis Center and Carefree Theatre from having performers from
their native country perform here. Music is the "international language." What
is next?

I was born in Miami, but fortunately, I went to college in San Francisco and was
exposed to many different cultures. I can't imagine Russian immigrants
protesting touring ballet companies from Russia or a communist Chinese opera
company being threatened by Chinese immigrants in the United States. Stop this
insanity.

BRETT DAVIS

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
 Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              292 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 4, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

MEXICO'S FOX CALLS FOR 'TRUST' FROM U.S.

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1090 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


On the eve of his departure for a state visit with President Bush, Mexican
President Vicente Fox said Monday that he will ask the American people to
"trust" his government to work as a partner for "creative" answers to illegal
immigration and other problems.

"I would say that my main message at this point in time is to convey the idea of
the new Mexico - of the historic opportunity of this vital visit not only for
Mexico, but also for the future and the well-being of the United States," Fox
said.

His comments came during an interview late Monday in his office at Los Pinos,
the Mexican president's official residence.

"The key word here is trust, we have to build upon trust, trust that to my
understanding did not exist in the past," Fox said, adding: "Not enough trust
toward Mexico and some distrust in the case of Mexico toward the United States."

Fox will be the guest of honor at Bush's first state dinner Wednesday evening.
During his visit, he will address a joint session of Congress and breakfast with
congressional leaders. He also will accompany Bush on a visit to
Mexican-Americans in Toledo, Ohio, on Thursday before traveling Friday to Miami
for an international conference on Latin America.

During Fox's visit to Florida, he is expected to meet with Gov. Jeb Bush,
President Bush's brother.

Bush and Fox are interested in developing greater links between Florida and
Mexico, especially southern Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, across the Gulf of
Mexico from Florida.

Jeb Bush's wife, Columba, is a Mexican from Fox's home state of Guanajuato.

The president echoed reports that a full Fox-Bush proposal to grant more visas
to Mexicans will not be ready by the time they conclude their meetings. Fox said
he hopes to return to Mexico with "two or three steps further than what we have
today on these issues. Of course . . . we are not expecting to come back with a
full agreement."

He acknowledged that divisions over immigration policy in Congress and concerns
about the U.S. economic slowdown have complicated negotiations to come up with a
proposal on migration. Congress will have to approve any agreement.

Fox said he has talked with numerous members of Congress from both parties, and
"really up to last year when the economy stopped, the ambiente (environment) was
very favorable and everybody seemed to speak very positively about working
toward this purpose."

"I understand that right now because of the slowdown of the economy . . . for
President Bush this is a political subject that matters and I understand that
for Congress it's the same," Fox said.

Fox acknowledged that U.S. congressional elections in 2002 might slow progress
as well.

"But," he said, "I think that migrants in the United States not only pay taxes,
not only work hard with productivity, (but) many of them vote and are part of
the political spectrum in the United States, many of these workers participate
in unions in the United States and I think all of them are appreciated."

Asked if he thinks there is a limited window of opportunity to urgently pass a
migration accord, Fox replied: "The Bush administration is just beginning, it
has four years ahead. And our administration is just beginning, it has six years
ahead. And that's time, time enough to build up to an in-depth agreement as time
goes by. We're not in a rush."

But he said that doesn't mean Mexico and the U.S. shouldn't keep up
negotiations. Others in his Cabinet, as well as U.S. embassy officials in Mexico
City, feel there is a limited window of opportunity - perhaps a year from now -
in which real progress can be made on migration before the issue becomes mired
in election-year politics.

Taking a break from working at his desktop computer in the office at his
residence, Fox said today "is a key day" because teams from both countries will
be meeting in Washington to talk about migration and other issues. They will
also discuss organized crime, drug trafficking and how to curtail illegal
migration into the U.S. along the border with Mexico.

The migration negotiating teams - the U.S. group includes Secretary of State
Colin Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft - will report to their
respective presidents on Wednesday.

Asked what steps on migration he hopes will emerge, Fox said he would "be in a
position to talk" about this after he is briefed by his team. The 59-year-old
former businessman and former head of Coca-Cola in Latin America became
president last year in an election that ended 71 consecutive years of one-party
presidential control by Mexico's former ruling Institutional Revolutionary
Party. Fox has built a coalition "transition" government, but he belongs to
Mexico's conservative, pro-market National Action Party.

Since a summit meeting in February in Mexico, Bush and Fox and teams of advisors
have been working on a proposal for "legalizing" as many as 3.5 million Mexican
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. as well as starting a new guest worker
program to give future work visas to Mexicans.

The two presidents see their goal as a logical extension of a closer
relationship between the U.S. and a new, more democratic Mexico since Fox's
election last year, as well as a step that recognizes that the U.S. economy
depends on immigrant labor, both legal and illegal.

Fox also said he believes the integration of the Mexican and U.S. labor markets
will help the U.S. compete in global trade against China and other countries.

Fox said he hopes during his visit to describe to the U.S. what Mexico is doing
to keep "our youth" at home by creating jobs. Mexico has long been unable to
keep up with new generations of workers entering the labor market.

He said Mexico and the U.S. are partners, especially since the advent of the
North American Free Trade Agreement, and they should look at cutting a deal on
migration as an opportunity to better compete in the global market.

"I would ask Congress and the American people to learn about Mexico, to see
what's happening in Mexico, the changes we're going through, the new modern
Mexico, the new competitive Mexico, the new Mexico as the land of opportunity
for investment, for development, for tourism," Fox said.

"The only thing we need is to listen to each other," he said, ". . . and this is
exactly the opportunity we have with President Bush's administration. The
opportunity to speak, the opportunity to be listened to and bring in ideas and
search for a better future for both of our nations."

susanf@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Fox (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              293 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 15, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

FOREIGNERS OFTEN OK'D FOR SCHOOL

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 570 words


Foreigners with bankrolls and enrollments in vocational schools such as flight
training centers are usually welcomed with open arms into the United States.

About 1 million foreign students are now enrolled in schools, universities,
vocational centers and in industrial job-training programs, the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service says.

The INS declined to comment on whether any of the suspected hijackers who
trained in Florida flying schools came here with vocational visas.

The U.S. State Department issues thousands of "M-1" visas a year for foreigners
accepted for enrollment in flight schools. The students must convince U.S.
consular offices at home that they have the money to pay tuition and expenses
during their stay and are likely to return to their home countries.

"These guys generally are from well-to-do families," said Jeffrey Devore, a West
Palm Beach immigration attorney.

"If they show up at an embassy with family ties and financial support, there is
a good chance they are going to get the visa."

From 6,000 to 7,000 M-1 visas are issued annually, with Japan having "far and
away the highest number," said a State Department official who asked not to be
identified.

In the budget year which ended Sept. 30, 1998 - the most recent data available -
the State Department issued 1,154 M-1 visas to Japanese nationals. Saudi Arabia
was second with 444 visas. Italy and the United Kingdom had about 330 visas
each.

Flight schools start the process by sending applicants a form that confirms the
foreigner is an accepted student. The foreigner takes the form to the U.S.
embassy in his or her country as a basis for a request for a non-immigrant visa.

"They have to meet pretty high standards," said an official at the Phoenix East
Aviation flight school in Daytona Beach, who asked not to be identified. "I
assume the background check by the embassy is thorough."

The embassy interviews each applicant and checks the names against databases of
people barred from entering the U.S., the State Department official said.

At least two suspected hijackers are believed to have had "B-1" or "B-2" visas.
They are the most common visas issued. The former is for business use and the
latter for tourism. They are good for six months and can be extended for another
six months.

M-1 visas are good for one year or until the student's schooling is completed,
whichever is sooner. Students must also show they have a fixed residence in
their home country that they don't intend to abandon, said Miami immigration
attorney Jeffrey Brauwerman.

The U.S. has encouraged foreigners to study here, he said. "The purpose of the
student visas was the opportunity for them to come and be taught our system," he
said.

The Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach advertises another
visa, the "J-1," which allows students to work part-time on campus.

Under the J-1 visa, students who complete their vocational training are barred
for two years from applying to enter the U.S. as an immigrant. Students with M-1
visas can remain here after their schooling if they qualify and apply for
residency.

The requirement is in place so that the students "share with their countrymen
the knowledge, experience and impressions gained during their stay in the United
States," the INS says.

Staff writer Larry Lipman contributed to this story.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STUDENT VISAS Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              294 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 26, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

GROUP'S DELRAY OFFICE GIVES HELP TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Katie Mee

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 785 words


With the recent opening of Church World Services in Delray Beach, many
immigrants will no longer have to travel to Miami to find the services they
need.

Prior to April, CWS, an interdenominational association of religious non-profit
international aid and relief organizations, only had two offices in Miami.

"We are an outreach program designed to help immigrants with services they need
to become citizens," said Beatrice Simon of CWS.  "The Delray office will reach
those people who couldn't travel all the way down to Miami to get the help and
information they need."

There are a few differences between the three offices. The Miami offices are
able to provide legal services for immigrants including residency adjustment,
work authorization, asylum preparation and defense, temporary protected status,
Immigration and Naturalization Service district representation and immigration
representation, whereas the Delray Beach office focuses on two main programs.

"Without the funds to provide a bigger staff and an attorney, there are a lot of
legal services we can't provide," Simon said.  "Right now, we can focus on the
resettlement and citizenship programs. We do everything free or for a very
minimal fee."

Simon, who has been with CWS since 1995, runs the resettlement program.

"For Cuban and Haitian immigrants as well as those from Europe, we help get them
started - find a job, place to live," Simon said.

Claude Mehu Garcon, a paralegal who began with the organization in May, is in
charge of the citizenship services program, which is financed by the Department
of Children and Families.

"For any eligible immigrant we provide free naturalization services," Garcon
said.  "We even hold free classes where they learn English, conversation skills,
civics, how to read and are prepared for the citizenship test."

The time and hard work that staff members put into the organization far exceeds
their job descriptions.

"The one problem we have is that immigrants don't know we exist. To make
ourselves heard of, we try to attend all events in Palm Beach, Martin and St.
Lucie counties," Garcon said.  "We also spend up to 11 hours every Friday at the
Haitian Center for Family Services in West Palm Beach. We talk to people,
provide services and help them in any way that we can."

For those who the CWS Delray Beach office can't provide services, staffers still
do all they can to help.

"We see people all the time who need legal services that we aren't able to
provide yet. We help direct them to the correct organizations," Simon said. "We
sometimes send them to our Miami office as well. "

Currently the office is in a historical home at 44 S. Swinton Ave., but that
soon will change.

"We started out at the Milagro Center in a very small room with a staff of two.
Dharma Properties was kind enough to lend us this home until the one we will
lease is ready - hopefully, by December," Simon said.  "It will be just behind
the one we are in now and the phone number will stay the same."

The location isn't the only thing about to change for the organization.

"By the end of this month we should have an attorney on staff," Simon said.
"This will be wonderful. It will allow us to provide the same legal services
that our Miami offices provide. They won't have to travel so far."

For information on CWS, call 330-8262.

- Finding a way to help: With a yearning desire to do something for all those
who have suffered from the Sept. 11 tragedy, Delray and Boynton Beach
businessman Mark Behar has found a way to help.

"I've given my tax relief refund money to the FOP, which is a union for cops,"
Behar said.  "It's the one way I know that I can do something to help. When a
horrific tragedy like this happens, it makes us feel helpless - that we are too
far to provide help."

Behar wasn't far from New York City when he worked as a Newark police officer.

"I would be there right now, had I stayed in the force," Behar said.  "But I'm
older now and financially stable. The way I can help now is by donating money."

Knowing that others are as affected by the terrorist attack, Behar is asking
others to follow his lead.

"There are going to be a lot of people who will need a lot of money. As
Americans, who can't be at Ground Zero to help, we have to do our part," Behar
said.  "The tax relief refund is like a Christmas gift to us - something we got
and didn't expect. We should give it back - donate it to the organizations that
need it, like the Red Cross, fire and police departments and disaster funds."

Katie Mee is a staff writer for Neighborhood Post. She can be reached at
279-3468 or katie_mee@pbpost.com. Faxes can be sent to 265-4872.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Delray Beach

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              295 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 4, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS POUR INTO GEORGIA, HEARTLAND STATES, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A new county-by-county report of population shows a historic influx of
immigrants into the nation's heartland, with Georgia posting the greatest
increases.

Twenty-five counties in Georgia, more than in any other state, experienced a 50
percent or more rise in immigration from 1990 to 1998, according to the study
released Wednesday by the Center on Immigration Studies in Washington. The
private research group seeks to reduce the immigration flow.

The study provides a clear statistical picture of what journalists and
demographers have been reporting: a major dispersal of newcomers, who for
decades tended to stay in California, New York, Florida and Texas.

It designated 223 counties nationwide as the "new Ellis Islands" based on
increases of at least 50 percent in the foreign-born population. Most are in the
South and Midwest.

Steven Camarota, the author of the study, said he compared the number of
foreign-born residents from the 1990 Census with the number of permanent visas
granted by the United States from 1991-98 for each county.

Camarota said that county Census numbers for 2000, which are not yet available,
would almost certainly increase the estimates of new arrivals. The Census
includes illegal residents as well as legal visa holders.

Most of these counties are in the South and Midwest, Camarota said, adding that
his data did not include illegal residents.

Newcomers from Mexico and India, as well as refugees from a variety of counties,
especially Vietnam and the former Soviet Union, make up the largest numbers of
new residents in the South and Midwest, Camarota said.

The 25 new "Ellis Islands" in Georgia included Fulton, Gwinnett, DeKalb,
Rockdale, Forsyth and Henry counties.

Minnesota and Kentucky, ranked second, with 18 counties each. Virginia had 13,
and Tennessee and North Carolina had 12.

Other states that saw big increases in some counties included Indiana with 11,
and Mississippi, Missouri and Iowa with 10.

A ranking of metropolitan areas that have seen the biggest boost in immigration
also showed movement toward the heartland.

Nashville had the highest increase, a jump of 57 percent in foreign newcomers.
Atlanta was second at 53 percent. Louisville, Ky., was third.

Camarota said that the new trend was caused in part by the "saturation" of
low-skilled immigrants in California and other states, which has pushed
newcomers to seek jobs elsewhere.

He cited efforts by local industries to recruit low wage immigrants for meat
packing, farm work and manufacturing.

He also said that refugee service centers, which offer federal aid to refugees
who qualify for humanitarian asylum, are attracting refugee settlers from places
such as Somalia, Sudan and the former Soviet Union to the nation's mid section.

juliam@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

For the complete study:

www.cis.org

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              296 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 13, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

U.S. BORDER OPENNESS DANGEROUS, PANEL TOLD

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America's borders are woefully vulnerable to terrorist penetration or attack and
the United States does not now have the manpower or organizational structure to
close those gaps, a Senate panel was told Friday.

"Our border management systems are broken," Stephen E. Flynn, senior fellow with
the Council on Foreign Relations warned the Senate Governmental Affairs
Committee.

There is a lack of coordination and intelligence sharing among the many agencies
responsible for border control, including the U.S. Border Patrol, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the U.S. Customs Service and the Coast
Guard, Flynn said.

The agencies have separate communications systems and computer systems and lack
the manpower to patrol the borders adequately, he said.

For example:

- Although Canadian officials believe there may be up to 50 terrorist groups
operating just over the U.S. border in Canada, the Border Patrol has only 330
agents and one analyst to cover the 4,000 mile border between the two countries.

- Although U.S. trade with Canada has increased fourfold since 1985 to about
$410 billion, the U.S. Customs Service has only 700 inspectors on the northern
border - 200 less than 20 years ago. Half the inspections booths at crossings in
Washington state, Montana, North Dakota, Minnesota, Michigan, New York, Vermont
and Maine are routinely closed because of a lack of Customs and INS inspectors.

- Coast Guard ranks are the lowest since 1964 and the services has had to
cannibalize many of its decades-old cutters and aircraft for spare parts to keep
others operating. The Coast Guard created six specially trained "Port Security
Units," because they are manned by reservists and are used overseas to protect
military forces in foreign ports.

Procedures for checking on shipments into the U.S. are also lax, Flynn said. The
Customs Service usually does not check shipments until they reach their
destination, he said. Thus, a shipment containing hazardous materials might
arrive in a port, be shipped by rail or truck across country and not inspected
until it reaches it final stop.

More worrisome, Flynn said, is that agencies that might pick up clues about the
movement of terrorists cannot effectively talk with each other.

For instance, he said that, if a suspicious ship with crew members on
intelligence watch lists were bound for an American port at the same time as a
tanker carrying volatile fuel, there would be little likelihood that the
information would be put together and the threat realized.

The Coast Guard might know about the ships, but not the crew. Customs might know
what the cargo was supposed to contain but not know whether the ship's route did
not correlate to its cargo. The INS might know about the crew, but that would
depend on the visas they held. And it's unlikely any of the agencies would have
received warnings from either the FBI or the CIA, Flynn said.

larryl@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB

Council on Foreign Relations: www.cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              297 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 22, 2001 Monday FINAL EDITION

DEPORTEE BACKLOG SHOWS INS' PRIORITIES ASKEW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 146 words


I read with great interest the Oct. 12 article "INS says it's been unable to
find 300,000 deportees," which described how the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service has a backlog of that many foreigners who have been
ordered deported from this country but who are still running around because the
INS doesn't know where they are.

Included in this group, of course, are dozens, if not hundreds, of possible
terrorists just like the ones who flew the planes into the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

This is the same organization that under the Clinton administration's leadership
a couple of years ago managed to turn out dozens of INS agents in flak jackets
and carrying automatic weapons to seize a boy, Elian Gonzalez, in the middle of
the night to return him to Cuba. I guess it's all a matter of one's priorities,
isn't it?

JAMES COLLINS

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              298 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               October 30, 2001 Tuesday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BUSH WANTS TIGHT LIMITS, CLOSE EYE ON FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: Bob Deans, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush moved Monday to tighten restrictions on the 7.5 million
foreigners who enter the country each year and expand surveillance of their
activities once they arrive.

The policies will increase scrutiny of the hundreds of thousands of foreigners
who come to the United States each year to study.

Bush set up what the White House called a "foreign terrorist tracking task
force," charged with identifying specific new policies, as the first order of
business for the Homeland Security Council he created to help defend the country
against terrorist attacks.

Bush presided over the council's first meeting Monday in the White House Cabinet
Room, telling reporters the time has come to put new watchdogs at the nation's
borders.

"We welcome legal immigrants and we welcome people coming to America," Bush said
at the end of the meeting.

"What we don't welcome are people who come to hurt the American people," he
said. "We're going to be very diligent with our visas and observant with the
behavior of people who come to this country."

Bush recently created the Homeland Security Council in response to the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

It is modeled loosely after the National Security Council, which was set up
during the Cold War to coordinate U.S. foreign, intelligence and domestic
policies to contain the former Soviet Union. Bush presides over the meetings of
both councils when he can.

Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge advises Bush on measures needed to counter
the threat of terrorism on American soil and helps coordinate the efforts of
four dozen U.S. government departments and agencies involved in the effort.

Ridge named as his deputy Steve Abbot, a retired four-star Navy admiral who
commanded the USS Theodore Roosevelt aircraft carrier during the Persian Gulf
War.

Abbot has been working on terrorism under Vice President Dick Cheney, whom Bush
asked in May to develop recommendations on how to prepare for the prospect of
large-scale domestic terrorism.

Homeland Security is emblematic of a new national campaign against terrorists
who have turned civilians into targets and the American homeland into a
battlefield, Bush said.

"Every American is a soldier, and every citizen is in this fight," he said.

"We've got ample resources to fight the war on the home front," he said. "Part
of our purpose of being here is to make sure that those resources are well
organized and that (they) fit into a strategy that this administration is
designing."

An early piece of that strategy will be a new skepticism toward foreigners
seeking to enter the country.

"We're going to tighten up the visa policy," Bush said.

"Our country has been an incredibly generous country. We're generous with our
universities, we're generous with our job opportunities," he said. "Never did we
realize then that people would take advantage of our generosity to the extent
they have."

Although "the vast majority of people who have come to America are really good,
decent people - people that we're proud to have here - there are some who are
evil," the president said.

During the year that ended Sept. 30, 2000 - the last complete year for which
statistics are available - the State Department received 9.5 million
applications for entry into this country by foreign nationals. It approved 7.1
million for temporary entry for such purposes as business, tourism and study,
and 413,000 more for permanent immigration..

Bush made clear that he intends to seek increased surveillance of those who
enter the country as students.

"We plan on making sure that, if a person has applied for a student visa, they
actually go to college or a university," Bush said. "We're going to start asking
a lot of questions that heretofore have not been asked."

bobdeans@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              299 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 30, 2001 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

CENTRAL DATABASE KEY IN TIGHTER-BORDERS BILL

BYLINE: Sarah Lechner, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 346 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A centralized database of visa holders and an electronic identification card for
non-American citizens would be established under a bill being drafted in the
Senate.

The proposal to improve border control would connect law enforcement agencies -
including the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the State
Department - to a single, comprehensive database about people into the country,
Sens. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., said last week.

Feinstein said the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington indicated either
a failure of intelligence or of coordination between agencies.

"Sept. 11 pointed out some very clear shortcomings in our immigration and visa
system," she said.

If passed, the legislation would require agencies to provide their intelligence
information to one centralized database. This database would be used to monitor
suspects and provide information to the State Department prior to a person
receiving a visa. It also would be used at border crossings to determine whether
non-citizens should be allowed to enter or leave the country.

Currently, databases do not crossover between agencies.

The legislation also would create a "SmartVisa," a credit card-type document
which would include biometric information, such as fingerprints or face
recognition.

Card readers would be installed at all national entry points.

The cards would not only help track visa holders but would also relieve some of
the wait-time at airports and national borders, Feinstein said.

"I think this is a system whose time has come," she said.

The information collected in the database would not become public record, but
would be used on a "need-to-know basis," Kyl said.

Both senators emphasized that this legislation would not impose upon Americans'
civil liberties, but rather would help to keep track of people who come into the
country.

The legislation would also increase the number of INS and U.S. Customs
inspectors at national borders, each by 1,000 over the next five years.

slechner@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              300 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 3, 2001 Saturday FINAL EDITION

'SUSPICIOUS' MEN ORDERED OFF PLANE AT PBIA

BYLINE: Robert P. King, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 150 words


A Delta Air Lines crew removed a Pakistani man and a Brazilian man from a plane
at Palm Beach International Airport late Friday after passengers and the captain
deemed them "suspicious," a Palm Beach County sheriff's deputy said.

Immigration authorities checked the men's passports, and the Pakistani man was
allowed to take a later flight, sheriff's Sgt. Gary Grob said. The Brazilian man
left in a taxi.

The Pakistani man aroused suspicion on the Hartford, Conn.-bound flight because
he had a one-way ticket to Pakistan and pilot's wings, and because of his
"general attitude," Grob said. He did not know what was considered suspicious
about the Brazilian man.

The crew escorted the men off the plane, Grob said.

"It was at the pilot's discretion . . . to decide who does and who does not
fly," Grob said.

Delta officials could not be reached for comment.

bob_king@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              301 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 22, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

GOVERNMENT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 202 words


Immigrants who now must wait hours to get answers to basic questions or check on
pending applications will be helped by a new service being offered in West Palm
Beach, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said Monday. Instead of
waiting in line at the INS office in Riviera Beach, immigrants seeking
information can schedule an appointment at a new INS office at 2501 Bristol
Drive in West Palm Beach. To schedule an appointment, call 684-2887. Those
filing out applications and seeking benefits, such as work permits, still must
go to the Riviera Beach office at 301 Broadway.


DELRAY BEACH - Police Chief Larry Schroeder announced Tuesday night that he
would promote Sgt. Anthony Strianese, who has been with the department for more
than 12 years, to the rank of lieutenant. Strianese, 41, is currently a
supervisor on the West Atlantic Avenue walking beat. Officer Rachel Saunders,
31, will be promoted to the rank of sergeant. Saunders, who has worked for the
department for more than six years, currently works in the uniform narcotics
enforcement unit. Both Strianese and Saunders will both be assigned to road
patrol supervisor positions. Their promotions will take effect Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              302 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 30, 2001 Friday FINAL EDITION

BREAD AND ROSES

SECTION: TGIF, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 227 words


British filmmaker Kenneth Loach has devoted his career to impassioned
socio-political tales that champion the plight of the downtrodden. Predictible
and frequently heavy-handed, Bread and Roses is nonetheless a fervent reminder
that unfair working conditions are hardly foreign to our shores.

Although fictionalized, Bread and Roses is based on an actual unionization
campaign called Justice for Janitors of the early 1990s.

It is a story about immigrants that we see through Loach's immigrant eyes. It
opens, however, with a hand-held camera's eye view of the harrowing border
crossing of a young, attractive woman named Maya (Pilar Padilla), brought to the
States by her older sister Rosa (Elpidia Carillo of Salvador and My Family), but
nearly raped by one of her transporters.

Although eager to gain work cleaning the offices alongside Rosa, Maya soon
learns of the conditions - low pay, no insurance and only as much job security
as the whims of oppressive boss Perez afford. Soon after Maya sees how the
ironically named Angel cleaning company works, up crops activist Sam Shapiro
(Adrien Brody of Liberty Heights) to rouse the rabble and win Maya's heart.

Bread and Roses is ultimately more about politics than film artistry, but
viewers may just see the janitorial staff in their offices in a different light
afterward.

- Hap Erstein

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE JANITOR'S HERO: Adrien Brody plays union activist Sam,
Shapiro in Bread and Roses.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              303 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 5, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

HEARINGS TARGET DETAINEES, PLAN FOR MILITARY TRIBUNALS

BYLINE: Rebecca Carr, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Four days after the Sept. 11th terrorist attacks, Ali Maqtari and his wife,
Tiffany Hughes, got a "big surprise" as they drove through the gates of Fort
Campbell, Ky., where she was to serve in the U.S. Army.

The recently wed couple were separated and interrogated for more than 12 hours
by investigators. They were accused of having a sham marriage, and Maqtari was
told the FBI had proof he was involved with terrorists. A native of Yemen, he
was held for 8 weeks for overstaying his visa before he was released.

"Even though I did nothing wrong and cooperated with the INS, FBI and Army in
every way possible, I spent many weeks in difficult jail conditions, cut off
from my wife, and my wife had to give up her army career," said Maqtari during
testimony Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Maqtari's testimony was part of back-to-back hearings by the committee to
examine the use of military tribunals to try terrorists and the Justice
Department's handling of hundreds of people detained on immigration violations
in connection with terrorist strikes.

Democrats who called the hearings repeatedly pointed out that the administration
did not not consult Congress before issuing the order permitting the use of
military tribunals on Nov. 13.

This was not lost on Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, the ranking Republican of the
committee.

"Not surprisingly, there is a growing concern among the public that these rapid
fire oversight hearings are aimed less at providing information and more at
demonizing the administration and our attorney general for partisan purposes,"
Hatch said during the afternoon session.

But Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., who chaired the hearing on the treatment of
detainees, said the series of hearings has nothing to do with politics.

"I fear that America's beacon of freedom and justice is threatened as we face
almost daily revelations of extraordinary steps by the Justice Department that
snub the rule of law and threaten to erode fundamental constitutional rights,"
Feingold said. Feingold told Maqtari that his treatment is "shameful because we
have reason to believe that your story is not unique."

As of Monday, 608 people were being held in federal custody on criminal or
immigration violations stemming from the investigation into the terrorist
attacks.

Of that number, 553 were being held on immigration charges. Feingold wanted to
know why their identities were being kept secret and how they were being
treated.

Viet D. Dinh, assistant attorney general in charge of legal policy at the
Department of Justice, told the committee that every one of the 608 people has a
right to access counsel and the right to make phone calls to family members and
attorneys.

"No one is being denied their right to talk to their attorneys," Dinh said.

In criminal cases and in the case of material witnesses, the individual has the
right to a lawyer at government expense, he said.

rcarr@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              304 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 6, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

314,000 ALIENS PUT ON FBI'S WANTED LIST

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Wednesday its first
systematic effort to find 314,000 aliens who have been ordered deported but
cannot be found.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar said these "bail jumpers" will be added to the FBI
list of wanted persons, so when they are stopped even for traffic violations
their names will show up on routine computer checks.

All have already had "due process" of hearings and final orders to leave the
United States, he said.

"So if any of them are out there listening, I just want them to know, if you
don't want to be one of our guests at a detention center while we're getting
your documents together, you might want to just go on home," the commissioner
told an immigration conference at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Ziglar, who took his new post weeks before the Sept 11 terrorist attacks, said
the new action helped demonstrate that his agency was focused on improving law
enforcement beyond the new focus on terrorism.

Ziglar said he was surprised to discover his agency did not place the names of
314,000 people who have vanished after receiving orders to leave the country on
wanted lists.

Flight is so common that INS staff have nicknamed the deportation notices "run
letters."

With only 2,000 agents working on interior enforcement, the INS often does not
attempt to track down illegal foreign residents, Ziglar said.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              305 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 9, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

'IT'S TORTURE': FREED TEACHER JAILED AGAIN

BYLINE: Paul Lomartire, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1802 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


At 11 a.m. on a recent Saturday morning, Dr. Mazen Al-Najjar left his Tampa
apartment to take out the trash and get change for the coin laundry.

His wife, a pharmacist, was at work, and his three daughters - 6, 11, 13 - were
asleep. He thought he'd be gone only as long as it took to go to a nearby gas
station for quarters.

But outside his apartment, 15 federal agents waited to whisk him away.

His daughter, Safa, 6, was first to find her father gone and said when her
mother, Fidaa, called: "Daddy's left and didn't come back."

Al-Najjar, 44, is in a cell guarded around the clock at the maximum-security
U.S. Penitentiary at Coleman, about 70 miles north of Tampa. He is one of more
than 560 people around the country being detained for immigration violations.
The former professor is being held on a deportation order that only the U.S.
Supreme Court can stop.

But no country is willing to take Al-Najjar because he is a Palestinian accused
of having ties to terrorism.

His student visa expired long ago, and travel papers Egypt issued to him when he
came to the U.S. in 1981 have been lost by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Neither Egypt nor any other country will issue new travel papers or
offer residency to a man accused of having ties to terrorism.

Using secret evidence that neither Al-Najjar nor his lawyers have seen, the U.S.
government jailed him for the first time in 1997. Denied bail, he was accused of
using two Palestinian academic groups to raise money for terrorists. The Miami
federal immigration judge who signed the 1997 order to lock him up heard the
feds' evidence three years later and wrote a 56-page opinion that found
Al-Najjar had no ties to terrorists. The judge's conclusion: Release him.

INS appealed to a three-judge panel that concluded: Release him.

INS next went to then-Attorney General Janet Reno, who read the open-court and
secret evidence and concluded: Release him. Now.

After 1,307 days in the Manatee County jail, Al-Najjar, never charged with or
convicted of any crime, was sent home last December, his teaching career at the
University of South Florida ruined by the rumors.

Although the Justice Department claims no new evidence, it sent a news release
about the Nov. 24 arrest of Al-Najjar that states he "had established ties to
terrorist organizations." It fails to mention the federal judges and attorney
general who dismissed the allegations.

Strip-searched every day

 Martin Schwartz, a Tampa immigration lawyer, is the only person allowed to see
Al-Najjar at Coleman.

"He's physically and mentally worn out," Schwartz says. "He doesn't get any
regular sleep and he barely eats . . . He pleads with me to get him out of the
segregated housing unit where they put prisoners who are being disciplined. He
can't stand the agony of being in a cell 23 hours a day without access to calls
or (family) visits and only limited access to his attorney."

This is the fifth Ramadan that Al-Najjar, a Muslim, has spent in a cell.

"It's torture," says his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian. "This is the worst kind
of situation he could be in. They strip him everyday to search him. Why would
they do that but to humiliate him? This is sadistic."

Amnesty International, the human rights watchdog, agrees.

"Dr. Al-Najjar's current conditions of confinement, as reported, are
unnecessarily punitive and constitute cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment,
prohibited under human rights treaties ratified by the U.S.A. (and which they
are bound to observe)," e-mails Angela Wright, Amnesty International's U.S.A.
researcher in London. "We shall be raising our concerns about his treatment,
calling for an urgent review of his prison conditions."

Questions about Al-Najjar to the U.S. Penitentiary are referred to the Bureau of
Prisons in Washington and then to the Justice Department, where no one will talk
about him.

"Why Mazen?" asks his wife, Fidaa.

David Cole, a Georgetown University law professor representing Al-Najjar,
doesn't have to think too hard.

"The why is Sept. 11," says the immigration expert. "It's not because they've
even made any assertions that he's in any way connected with Sept. 11 or those
involved, but it's part of this general policy determination to be tough on
terrorism."

Immigrants waiting to be deported can be jailed, explains Cole, only if they are
a threat to national security or a flight risk. Allegations that Al-Najjar was
politically connected to terrorism were dismissed, so the feds can't prove he's
a threat to national security. With no travel papers and no country to go to,
he's not a flight risk.

"I think he's just been swept up in the attempt to look tough on terrorism and,
in part, the government has painted itself into a box," Cole concludes.

Early this week, Cole's legal team plans to challenge the jailing of Al-Najjar
in a federal court in Miami. A hearing is expected within two weeks to a month.

Guilt by association?

In a sense, Al-Najjar's "crime" may be guilt by association.

After earning a Ph.D., Al-Najjar taught Arabic and industrial management at the
University of South Florida for eight years. He was on the USF faculty in 1991
when Ramadan Abdullah Shallah arrived from London to teach economics and Middle
Eastern history. Shallah quietly left Tampa in May 1995 and surfaced five months
later in Syria as leader of the bloody Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Today, operating out of terrorist-friendly Damascus, Shallah is classified by
the U.S. as a "Specially Designated Terrorist."

Al-Najjar and Shallah also worked at off-campus WISE (the World and Islamic
Studies Enterprise), a research and archive collective started in 1991 by
Al-Najjar, who also helped start the nonprofit ICP (Islamic Committee for
Palestine) that professed to raise money for orphans.

Shallah was the paid director of WISE and helped run ICP. Three weeks after he
emerged as leader of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the FBI accused Al-Najjar of
using WISE and ICP to raise money for terrorists.

"The disaster that (Shallah) caused for me was the worst disaster of my life
that I haven't gotten over yet," said a prophetic Al-Najjar, a few weeks before
this recent arrest. Since last December, Al-Najjar has run Tampa's Islamic
Academy, a licensed, kindergarten through 12th-grade private school for 280
students near USF.

WISE and ICP collapsed because of the federal investigations.

The 14-acre, oak-shaded Islamic school he helped start near USF still holds
classes, but without its headmaster, Al-Najjar, who did everything.

On Sept. 11, he was subbing in a math class when a startled staffer interrupted
to tell him a jet had crashed into the World Trade Center.

"I thought it was an intoxicated pilot," he recalled. "Then another and a third
and fourth." He shook his head and concluded, "It's a horrible crime. Inhuman.
It's damaging for all of mankind. (Muslims) condemn anyone who did it."

A friendly man with downturned brown eyes that give him an organic sadness,
Al-Najjar tends to stutter when he's nervous. Not able to get a work permit, he
cobbles together a living from the academy and fees for editing and translating
Arabic text, but even that work isn't going well. His three years in jail, says
his sister, Nahla Al-Arian, left him "unable to concentrate on anything."

Al-Najjar said he isn't bitter spending three years in jail and losing his
university career.

"I don't have any hatred," he said. "I'm trying to use the mystic experience.
When you lose something dear to you, then you have to look for glimpses of God's
mercy and light, and he'll give you something dearer to your heart."

He paused and added, "I'm still waiting."

'Nervous all the time'

Fidaa Al-Najjar would rather be anywhere but in a Tampa apartment near USF.

"I'm nervous all the time," she says. "I don't feel secure or safe. Maybe they
will come and pick me up. What kind of life is that? I was afraid to go outside
to get the paper this morning."

On Sunday, Fidaa is sitting on her living room couch with no idea when or
whether she and her husband will be deported - or where. She doesn't care.
Anything would be better than this.

"My apartment is so quiet, like someone died, God forbid, and I have three kids.
Enough is enough.  . . . I couldn't sleep one hour the other night," she says.
"I had to break my (Ramadan) fast to drink coffee just so I could go to work."

She works as many hours as possible. "We have nothing," she says.

With no income since her husband left USF almost five years ago, Fidaa has
supported the family as a pharmacist.

When hauled off to prison a week ago, Mazen had the keys to the family's '92
Voyager van in his pocket. No one at the maximum security prison will allow
attorney Schwartz to retrieve the keys for her.

Oh, she adds, and Mazen has the family's health insurance card in his wallet.
She makes a mental note to get another.

After Mazen got out of jail a year ago, he took over all household duties,
including shopping, laundry and taking care of his daughters.

"He is a wonderful father," Fidaa says.

Yara, 13, cries just hearing the word deportation. "But she has a very strong
personality. She's very independent. I don't ever have to tell her to study.
Very good grades."

Sarah, 11, "is average. She's my biggest problem. She passed all the courses
without high grades. She's very quiet, but things affect her. She keeps it all
inside. Mazen helped her, and she was getting better with grades. He understands
she's the weakest of the three."

Safa, 6, doesn't want to go to school. Kids at the Islamic Academy tease her,
Fidaa says in a sing-song voice, "Safa's daddy's in jail, Safa's daddy's in
jail."

Fidaa is Palestinian by blood, raised in Saudi Arabia. At college in Riyadh,
U.S. professors taught her in English. She and Mazen have been married 14 years.

"It was like an arrangement through a distant cousin," she says of her marriage.
"My father sent me here after my degree to see if I liked him."

Her husband finally got to make a first phone call on Friday, she says. It was
short. Guards are nasty, he said. He's trying to fast for Ramadan, but prison
lockdown and his blood sugar (he is diabetic) make it hard. He passed out once.

"At the end he said, 'Be strong, be healthy and call my parents,' and then,
click."

This is so different from what she thought when she came to this country.

"I dreamed my husband would be a professor. I'd have beautiful things. Go back
and visit my parents. Live in this beautiful country and enjoy life. But I
haven't. Now, three years, I'll be 40. I worry about his health. I don't need
another burden.

"What's my fault? I don't have any answers. I'm just overwhelmed."

paul_lomartire@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W), 1. (C) Mazen Al-Najjar: Janet Reno ordered his release
last, year.
, 2. BOYZELL HOSEY/St. Petersburg Times
, Fidaa Al-Najjar (center) leaves her home with daughters (from top), Sarah,
Safa and Yara. In their first phone call on Friday, her, husband told her: 'Be
strong, be healthy and call my parents.'

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              306 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 13, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

ISRAELI APPEALS FOR MONEY TO ASSIST ETHIOPIAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Ron Hayes, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 371 words


What do the cities of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Ramla, Israel, have in common?

Ethiopia.

The Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County is the only American organization
supporting a program to help 5,000 Ethiopian immigrants assimilate in Ramla, and
that city's mayor is visiting this week to update local leaders and encourage
more support.

"We want them to have roots, grow in our state and serve in our army as part of
society with equal skills," said Yoel Lavi, 51, who is in his second term as
mayor of the city of 67,000 southeast of Tel Aviv.

"These are people from a very poor agrarian culture who are suddenly living in a
modern society."

A $500,000 annual grant from the Palm Beach County federation supports a program
similar to Head Start, serving Ethiopian children, from birth to 6 years old, in
kindergartens, baby clinics and community centers. But the program's success is
also creating further problems, Lavi said.

"Children are speaking Hebrew very fluently after two or three months, but their
parents remain illiterate," he explained. "Now who is the leader of the family?
The language barrier breaks the family framework."

To combat these later problems, Lavi said, three new programs have been
established. A teacher training program prepares Ethiopian children for the move
from elementary to junior high school, and another coaches them for college
admission tests. Finally, an outreach program serves adolescents who are hanging
out on the streets and in danger of getting into serious trouble.

"We need to integrate these children to prevent a new underclass in our
society," Lavi said.

To those who question whether black Jews from Ethiopia can ever assimilate in a
country inhabited by so many white European Jews, Lavi pointed out that Jews
from Yemen who arrived in the late 1940s and early '50s are fully assimilated.

The first major group of Ethiopian Jews arrived in Israel in the late 1980s.
Recently, Lavi said, he returned to his old high school in Ramla and met with 15
Ethiopian graduates.

"They speak perfect Hebrew," he said. "And they are going to school with newly
arrived Jews from Russia who are still learning the language."

ron_hayes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Yoel Lavi (mug)

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              307 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 26, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

TERROR NET SNARES DRUGS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 415 words


As the nation's response to the Sept. 11 attacks expands, security officials are
discovering beneficial byproducts in unexpected places. A surprising surge in
drug seizures along U.S. borders is becoming a welcome unintended consequence of
the war against terrorism.

The Customs Service reports a 326 percent increase over last year in seizures
from commercial traffic - trucks, ships and planes - along the Canadian border,
and an overall increase of 66 percent at all U.S. points of entry. Noncommercial
seizures are up about 30 percent. The rise has caught customs officials off
guard. They expected seizures to fall, given the wide publicity about heightened
security. Smugglers apparently are unwilling or unable to change routes they
have used for decades. The troubling question rising from the encouraging news
concerns why the government couldn't have closed these border holes long ago.

U.S. agencies say the national resolve after the terrorist attacks eliminated
the political turf wars and disputes over money that hindered enforcement. In
recent years, Congress often made a greater priority of stopping the flow of
illegal immigrants - Mexican workers, in particular - and resources shifted from
drug seizure efforts. An essential part of the long-term fix for border control
is creation of a practical, legal means for Mexican workers to enter the United
States then return home. A functioning guest-worker program would enable law
enforcement to devote more manpower to keeping drugs out instead of chasing
people who come to fill job openings at the low end of the U.S. economy.

Anti-terrorism measures have stretched the Coast Guard thin, however, and
Floridians have reason to worry about that. Coast Guard drug seizures have
declined since the attacks because of increased security responsibilities - port
patrols and escorting Navy ships and cruise liners. The Coast Guard needs
adequate help from Congress to keep up with its expanding mission.

Just as the terrorist hijackings forced improvement in airport security that
should have been implemented long ago, they also expose long-standing security
weaknesses on the borders. The United States won't solve all its drug problems
just by increasing seizures at ports of entry, but as with terrorism, every
battle won in the war helps.

Tightening the borders always has been a matter of finding the will and setting
the right priority. The country has both today, and drug smugglers suffer for
it.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2001 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              308 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 15, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

TAKE THIS ISSUE OFF HOLD

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 424 words


Out-of-state scam artists find an inexhaustible supply of soft targets within
South Florida's large and growing immigrant population.

Social and cultural barriers make immigrants particularly vulnerable. Many of
them don't speak the language well and become easy marks. Once victimized,
immigrants are reluctant to report the crimes. Some fear questions about
residency status. Others come from countries where the authorities are more
corrupt and dangerous than the criminals are here. Too often, victims believe
they have no recourse and write off their losses. Dishonest vendors know this
and tailor their scams accordingly.

As The Post reported this month, abuses involving prepaid telephone cards have
grown incrementally with the rising numbers of South Florida immigrants. The
cards typically offer a block of calling time to Central and South America, Asia
or the Caribbean. They line the walls of convenience stores and sandwich shops
in neighborhoods with large foreign-born populations. While many large companies
provide reliable service, fly-by-night operations don't deliver the deals their
cards promise. Callers find, for example, that the half-hour card to Mexico
really is good only for about 15 minutes. When they call the out-of-state
company's toll-free service number to complain, they hear an eternal busy
signal. Many immigrants cannot afford or qualify for long-distance service in
their homes and must take their chances with the prepaid cards.

State regulators have been slow to defend consumers. In 1988, the Florida Public
Service Commission became one of the first agencies in the nation to establish
regulations for calling card companies. Enforcing those rules, however, is
another matter. Because there are relatively few complaints - 58 last year -
neither the PSC nor the state attorney general's office has investigated or
penalized offending companies. Both agencies say they are monitoring the problem
but need more complaints to act. Their non-response encourages disreputable
businesses to continue.

By their nature, crimes against immigrants are under-reported. The state should
acknowledge this and respond to the complaints it has received. While immigrant
advocate groups can do a better job reporting abuses, the PSC and attorney
general's office have enough information to start probing. All a state
investigator really need do is buy one of the suspect cards and, when it shuts
down early, try getting help from the toll-free service number. Scams usually
aren't this obvious.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              309 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 28, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

IS INS DETAINEE A HOSTAGE OF HIS ARAB HERITAGE?

BYLINE: Louis J. Salome and Paul Lomartire, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


It began as a free and easy day for the college senior, a field trip to the
Broward County Convention Center. During the next four frightening months,
freedom's ring turned into the clang of a cell door slamming shut.

After he left his Pembroke Pines home on Sept. 18, Khaled A. Al Oweisi rolled
quietly along in his Nissan Pathfinder toward the convention center on the
perimeter of Port Everglades. There he was stopped at a police roadblock set up
to protect petroleum tanks at the port after the Sept. 11 attacks in New York
and Washington.

An audiotape of prayers read by an Egyptian sheik who died two years earlier was
on the front seat of Al Oweisi's car. Police thought the tape was the work of
Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind cleric who taught at a Jersey City mosque and
who is serving a life sentence for plotting to blow up several buildings in the
United States.

With the tape were Sept. 14 editions of two newspapers. Stories about the Sept.
11 attacks filled the pages, further raising police suspicions.

The next 11 hours were a blur of confusion and fear for Al Oweisi, a 36-year-old
working father of four U.S.-born children, and a knot of suspicion for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the FBI.

By 1 a.m. the next day, the student at Florida International University's School
of Hospitality Management was in solitary confinement at the INS' Krome Avenue
detention center west of Miami, with no clue why.

Relatives knew that night that Al Oweisi had been taken from INS headquarters in
Miami to Krome, but a week passed before he was allowed to call his family again
or talk to a lawyer.

For 17 days, Al Oweisi remained in solitary, without exercise, with food slipped
through a small window, his hands and feet shackled when he was taken from his
10-by 6 1/2-foot cell. He was investigated thoroughly by the FBI about the Sept.
11 attacks, his personal life closely checked.

By Oct. 23, the FBI had cleared Al Oweisi - a Jordanian-born Palestinian who
wants to be a U.S. citizen like his brother, Jamal Abdel Wahab Al Oweisi - of
any involvement in terrorist or other criminal activities.

Despite his clearance by the FBI, Khaled Al Oweisi remains in the Krome
detention center, charged with immigration violations that his lawyer says
normally are ignored in such cases.

Al Oweisi is a most visible victim of the government's campaign to round up
thousands of men of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent in an attempt to
uncover links to terrorist organizations and possibly infiltrate those
organizations.

On Nov. 29, U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft said that foreigners in the
United States and abroad might receive special visas that could result in
permanent U.S. residency or citizenship if they provide important information
about terrorist organizations.

'Because he's Arab'

Michael Morano, a West Palm Beach lawyer who initially represented Al Oweisi in
the case, said Al Oweisi continues to be held "because he's Arab. No other way
around it."

Morano said he's no apologist for Muslim causes and that anyone suspected of
being "even remotely related to Islamic fundamentalism must be investigated and
detained until any type of information can be extracted from him."

But, "it's a witch hunt," said Morano, explaining that Al Oweisi is being held
although he hasn't broken any law.

John P. Pratt of Miami, Al Oweisi's current lawyer, said: "I've gotten bonds for
people who have been convicted of crimes and set for deportation. They were out
on bond pending continuation of the case. Some persons with drug convictions
have been bonded out while their deportation cases go forward. He's not charged
with anything criminal. To me, he's being held because he's of Middle Eastern
origin."

In an Oct. 23 letter to an INS officer requesting parole for Al Oweisi, Morano
wrote, "Mr. Al Oweisi is not a terrorist, criminal alien, nor is he a threat to
national security.

"Mr. Al Oweisi has fully cooperated in a subsequent FBI investigation regarding
his background and activities in the United States.

"The FBI concluded its investigation, having found him to be forthright, honest,
and innocent of any involvement, directly or indirectly, with any terrorist or
subversive activities, and (he) has even volunteered to submit to polygraph
testing, which the FBI found to be unnecessary."

But after the FBI cleared Al Oweisi and turned him over to the INS for what was
expected to be routine processing, the INS began playing hardball.

On Oct. 4, an immigration judge, saying he lacked jurisdiction, refused to grant
bond and ordered Al Oweisi deported to Jordan. Al Oweisi is appealing the bond
rejection and the deportation order.

The INS itself could grant Al Oweisi bond or approve his long-standing request
for permanent residency status, Morano said, but refuses to do so in order to
"squeeze him."

Al Oweisi "wouldn't be in Krome if he were wanted by the FBI for criminal
violations," Morano said. "He'd be somewhere else in a federal prison."

Morano called Al Oweisi "a poster boy for getting bond. He's not a flight risk.
He's been in the same apartment complex for about 10 years, he has four
U.S.-born kids, he's a student, he has a steady job and he's on the verge of
getting a green card. But the INS says he's a flight risk, that there's not
enough evidence to show otherwise. I've had people bonded out whose only ties to
the community is a third cousin in Texas."

Outdated visa rule

When an INS judge first denied bond for Al Oweisi, the judge cited a rule that
had been outlawed two years earlier. After Al Oweisi's lawyer noted the rule was
outdated, the judge cited a new regulation to deny bond.

INS documents say Al Oweisi's visa has expired and his status is that of an
arriving alien, which means he has no rights and can't receive the green card he
seeks.

His lawyer argues that Al Oweisi, who had a valid U.S. visa when he went to
Jordan to visit his ailing mother in 1992, returned to South Florida in January
of 1993 with the INS' advance permission, which means he's not an arriving alien
and his rights can't be taken away without warning.

Besides, said Pratt, his current lawyer, the regulation establishing the
arriving alien category wasn't enacted until well after Al Oweisi returned to
the United States in 1993 and shouldn't be applied retroactively.

Neither the FBI nor the INS returned telephone calls to discuss Al Oweisi's
case.

lou_salome@pbpost.com

paul_lomartire@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Second of two parts

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W), 1. (C) Al Oweisi (mug)
, 2. (B&W) Courtesy of Al Oweisi family/Olan Mills Photography
, Family portrait: Khaled Al Oweisi, his wife, Ibtisam, and three of, their
U.S.-born children: Saleh, Mohammad and Walid. A fourth child,, Allah, isn't
shown.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              310 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 28, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

KROME AS MUCH A PRISON AS IT IS PROCESSING CENTER

BYLINE: Louis J. Salome and Paul Lomartire, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1426 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


"You have no rights," an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer shouts
as he warns them all to place their belts and watches in a tray before they pass
through a metal detector.

"This is a privilege, not a right. The only right you have is the right to be
deported."

His admonitions are aimed at the visitors - pregnant women, toddlers clutching
their mothers' dresses, sisters, brothers, friends. They all line up, eager to
get inside the prison that their loved ones are desperate to leave.

Officially, this is the Krome Service Processing Center on the eastern edge of
the Everglades, where the Indian presence is announced by the glitzy Miccosukee
Indian Gaming bingo hall and casino nearby, 25 miles west of downtown Miami.

Unofficially, this is a prison, although its beige cinder block buildings,
trimmed in a pale version of Miami Dolphins aqua, look innocent enough.

You can be placed in solitary confinement here. Your hands and feet can be
shackled so you stumble from a solitary cell to a courtroom, where you may or
may not have a lawyer.

This is a secret place, inaccessible to the public. Even its capacity is secret.
The number of inmates, called detainees, is secret. More secret still is the
number of inmates picked up accidentally or on purpose since the Sept. 11
attacks in New York and Washington.

Inmates charged with criminal violations wear red uniforms. Others, charged with
violating civil immigration laws, wear orange uniforms. The men look like
colorful hospital orderlies.

One of nine facilities in the nation where illegal aliens are housed while their
asylum or deportation cases are being decided, the Krome Avenue facility was
constructed as an Army missile base in the 1960s. In 1980, it was used by
federal, state and local law enforcement to house refugees from the Mariel
boatlift. The INS took it over in 1981.

Shortly afterward, large numbers of dejected Haitians were crowded inside the
prison's 39 acres that are within the facility's secure area. Fifty-four more
acres at Krome are unsecured.

'My camp . . . do what I say'

Today, the much improved facility has another high-profile face: It is one of a
few prisons in the country that collectively house hundreds, maybe thousands, of
men of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent, courtesy of government sweeps
conducted after Sept. 11.

Visiting day begins outside the main gate, where an INS officer barks to a
silent minority: "This is my camp, and you do what I say or you're outta here."

Doing what he says means leaving keys, pens, pencils, cigarettes, lighters and
cell phones in your car. If the name of the person you plan to visit is on the
official list, you get in for one hour. If not, you've made the long trip for
nothing.

Papers signed, possessions stashed and driver licenses shown, about 35 visitors
climb aboard a bus built for prisoners. The windows are laced with heavy
peek-a-boo wire barriers; a woman closes a metal door that separates the
visitors at the back of the bus from the driver.

After a short ride beyond the 12-foot-high fence and the coiled razor wire that
looks like a giant Slinky run amok, the women visitors enter the administration
building ahead of the men.

A walk down short, narrow corridors and past Courtroom No. 2 leads to a building
that is covered overhead but open on the sides. It looks like a pavilion for
picnics at a public park, but appearances are deceiving.

Gray picnic tables are arrayed on the outer edge. Some 20 prisoners file in and
sit on the inside benches of the tables; the visitors sit across from them on
the outer benches. Guards circle the concrete-floor enclosure, watching,
listening.

Law library is available

Visitors buy soft drinks and snacks from vending machines behind them. For 60
minutes, everybody sips and nibbles.

Money changes hands. It's legal. Prisoners can keep up to $50 each in their
pockets to buy telephone cards, soda, soup and other snacks. There's no limit on
the amount of money that prisoners can keep under official protection.

At Krome, a standard breakfast features toast, two eggs, dry cereal, coffee, tea
and milk.

Rice and beans lead the lunch menu, followed by bread and sandwich meats and
sometimes the American favorite, hot dogs.

Main dinner courses vary from fried chicken to ham to turkey that, inmates say,
resembles ham. Beef tops the menu maybe twice weekly. Potatoes, bread, rice and
beans and sometimes cake round out dinner.

Inmates say the meals are modest in size, and no seconds are allowed. An inmate
can earn $1 per day working on the buffet line.

Practicing Muslims are allowed to pray five times a day on prayer rugs laid down
in hallways. Inmates said meals were served to accommodate Ramadan, when Muslims
fast from sunrise until sunset.

Volleyball, basketball, tennis and soccer are permitted for about an hour daily,
and an exercise machine without weights also can be used. A law library is
available for about an hour a day.

Inmates live in a barracks-like setting, with 65 to 75 people in a large room.
Until recently, about 130 people were crowded into one room.

Going to court a highlight

Going to court is a highlight of the day - even when an inmate is shackled -
because prisoners can discover when their asylum and deportation cases will be
heard.

A large plaque hangs on the wall behind the immigration judge who presides in
the small, dark, wood-paneled chamber in the administration building.

Etched around the edge of the seal are the words "Office of the Immigration
Judge." An American eagle rises in relief across the face of the seal.

The lobby of the administration building seats eight people, all of whom enter
by passing through a metal detector. Another dozen people - usually lawyers,
relatives and translators - can wait on benches outside the building. They
discuss their difficulties in seeing the detainees and getting cases resolved.

On a recent day, about a dozen prisoners were brought at one time to one of the
two courtrooms in the prison.

A couple of the prisoners wear the red uniforms of those who face criminal
charges.

Only a few of the prisoners are allowed in the courtroom at the same time. The
remainder wait just beyond the voice of the judge.

Hearings like arraignments

One by one, the judge reads briefs of the cases and assigns dates for full
hearings, in a procedure similar to an arraignment in state and federal courts.

After reading an application for asylum, the judge asks whether the defendant
has read and understood the application. "Yes," answers the defendant, after his
translator explains the judge's question, which the defendant seems to
understand without help from the translator. The defendant signs the
application, and the judge sets the date for a full hearing.

The entire procedure takes no more than 10 minutes. Most of the other hearings
are even shorter.

Defense lawyers say little except to explain why they would like continuances or
to answer the judge's questions. The government lawyer makes notes but is
silent.

Krome is policed on two levels. Officers in green uniforms are federal
employees. They have the power to arrest immigrants. Those who wear blue work
for a private company and provide police-style security at the prison.

At a private interview in the cubicle outside the courtroom, one prisoner asks
his lawyer for aspirin to ease a constant headache. The aspirin will come, but
not this day.

In the waiting area just outside the administration building, a special device
is placed for officers to squeeze the triggers of their guns to demonstrate
their weapons aren't loaded. If a gun was loaded, the bullet would be discharged
into the device without harm.

A short distance away, near the prison kitchen, a fusillade rings out; then
another and another. It's not an invasion or an attack repelled.

It is only target practice at Krome's firing range.

What's on the menu?

No second helpings are allowed - although inmates who follow religious
guidelines, such as fasting from sunrise to sunset for Ramadan, are served
special meals. But overall, standard meals at Krome include:

Breakfast

Toast, two eggs, dry cereal, coffee, tea and milk.

Lunch

Beans and rice, bread and cold cuts and sometimes hot dogs.

Dinner

Varies from fried chicken to ham to turkey, along with sides such as potatoes,
bread, rice, beans and sometimes cake. Beef is served about twice a week.

lou_salome@pbpost.com

paul_lomartire@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W), Photos by Paul Lomartire
, 1. A former missile base on the edge of the Everglades
, Krome Service Processing Center became an all-male facility in 2001, and can
house up to 800 people. Before Sept. 11, it averaged 400 to, 500 detainees.
Officials refuse to say how many are held today. A $6, million renovation began
in 1998 and has improved the cafeteria,, dormitories, processing center, library
and medical clinic.
, 2. Access to the outside
, Persons detained at Krome can access a common yard where they can, play
soccer, basketball or baseball. There is one exercise machine, available.
, 3. One of a few places to house detainees related to Sept. 11
, Krome is one of nine facilities in the country where illegal, immigrants are
housed while their cases are being decided. Today, it, is also one of a few
prisons that collectively hold hundreds,, possibly thousands, of Middle Eastern
and South Asian men.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              311 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 10, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MAGNET AMERICA BECOMES DRAGNET AMERICA

BYLINE: Louis J. Salome

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1121 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


"I love this country," Mahmoud said proudly, peering at his America through the
windshield of his own Lexus. "I came here 10 years ago with $100 in my pocket.
Now look at me. I work hard, and I have many stores."

If Mahmoud, known to his American friend as Mike, hadn't become a citizen, he
might be in the Krome Avenue detention center with some of his friends who are
being rounded up in post-Sept. 11 sweeps of Middle Eastern and South Asian men.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is snatching thousands of Arabs and
South Asians off the street, from their jobs and sitting rooms, in an attempt to
uncover links to those who carried out the deadly attacks in New York and
Washington.

Even if the FBI clears the immigrant aliens of any illegal activity, the
evidence shows that the INS keeps most of them in prison on immigration
violations the government previously ignored.

In some cases, the real purpose of keeping the bars locked is to persuade the
people behind them to become informants for the FBI. "Spy for the FBI and you'll
go free" is the bureau's message, which reveals that there is no serious
immigration reason to detain those individuals in the first place.

The feverish search for informants bares the FBI's failure to train agents who
understand the Middle East and South Asia.

If the FBI and the INS understood the variety of Arab peoples, Iranians and
Pakistanis better, they would know that the vast majority of those people come
to America for the same reasons that the Winthrops and Randolphs did, the
Pulaskis, Schurzes, Giovannis, Ryans, Santiagos, Josefsburgs, Chungs,
Archambaults and, well, you get the idea.

They came and they still come to Magnet America to escape political repression
and religious persecution, and to enjoy the economic freedom to work 20 hours a
day, earn a degree in computer programming, raise families and fuel the
country's consumer economy.

Mike became a true-blue American quickly by mastering the art of making money
faster than you can recall the name of the president whose face is on a $20
bill.

"You have to become successful in five years," said Mike, "otherwise you will
never be successful; you will become a drudge. Everybody knows that."

So Mike, a Jordanian of Palestinian descent, worked 20 hours a day at any jobs
he could find until he saved enough money to buy his own retail store. Then he
bought another, and another, and another.

Mike has more cell phones than many people have windows in their homes. That's
how he keeps track of his businesses, family and all the people like him who
work for him. In Magnet America, Mike has become a one-man economic magnet.

None of this is new. The long road from the Middle East to the United States has
been filled with travelers for more than 100 years. The impetus provided by the
decaying Ottoman Empire 100 years ago today has newer engines, some fueled by
U.S. policy.

So Iraqis, Muslim and Christian, come to these shores, as do Iranians and
Egyptians, Pakistanis and Palestinians.

The vast majority of them embrace the political and economic freedom that West
Palm Beach, Detroit, New York, Boston and Los Angeles offer. They might not like
U.S. government policy, a sentiment that isn't unique in this country at any
time, but most are eager to express their love for America and the American
people.

Many wave the flag so high it appears they are competing with George Washington
and Abigail Adams for first place in patriotism.

But they are afraid now, because they are being accused by stares from strangers
and arrests by authorities due to their names and appearances. Some, especially
those in business, are considering changing their names, but they won't admit
that publicly.

The scores of Middle Eastern and South Asian men being hauled into Krome and
other prisons in the country tell stories that make Marco Polo look like a
weekend tourist with a fat wallet. They are 21st-century versions of American
immigrant stories written nonstop during the past 300 years.

Some come to join relatives or friends who are U.S. citizens or legal residents,
although the travelers themselves often come without proper documents.

Sarkan Shaul Odesho El Kalifi, 22, fled Iraq on July 25, 1998, and it took him
three years to reach the United States. He came, Mr. El Kalifi said, "to pursue
my future."

A decade ago, the immigrant aliens came in the filthy aft of passenger ships.
They were in steerage, the cheapest, worst and sometimes the most deadly of
accommodations, a class of traveler that embarrassed their U.S.-born children
more than it did the passengers.

Today, most come by plane, in tourist class, after paying middlemen exorbitant
prices for tickets and false travel documents.

Mr. El Kalifi's story is typical:

"When I left Iraq, I went to Turkey and stayed for two months. After that, I
went to Amman, Jordan, for two years. Then I went to Cuba with my brother for
one month, and then I went to Ecuador for eight months. After that, I came to
the United States."

Mr. El Kalifi said he paid $700 for a fraudulent Iraqi passport that allowed him
to leave Baghdad. From Ecuador, he used a false Swedish passport that he tossed
in the trash on the airplane on his way to the United States.

"The whole trip cost me $13,000," he said.

When Mr. El Kalifi was asked how much money he had left when he entered this
country, he answered, "Ten U.S. dollars."

An Iraqi Christian, Bashar Ishak Sadek, said he spent $6,000 to reach this
country, where he hoped to work with his brother in a Las Vegas supermarket. He
had $155 when he arrived. Mr. Sadek's journey took him to Jordan, Russia,
Bolivia, Ecuador and Cuba. A false Dutch passport eased the way.

"Why didn't you ask for asylum in Jordan or Ecuador?" Mr. Sadek was asked. "I
only planned to ask for asylum in America," he answered.

Upon entering the United States, Doraid Youssef Suleiman, 18, whose brother
lives in the United States, was asked: "How did you pay your expenses in
Ecuador?"

He answered: "My brother was sending me money there." Mr. Suleiman said he
arrived in the United States from Iraq with $5.

Other men picked up after Sept. 11 and sent to Krome tell similar stories. They
came figuring they would be caught, but they gambled that their search for a
better life, escape from political oppression or religious persecution would be
enough to win asylum.

Sept. 11 turned the hopes of many upside down. But that wasn't their fault. They
were doing only what millions have done before them, and for the same reasons.

Louis J. Salome is a reporter for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is
lou_salome@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              312 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 14, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

FIX ANTI-TERROR DEBACLE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 431 words


The bureaucratic counterattack against terrorism began in Florida two months
ago, when the state tightened the requirements for foreigners seeking driver
licenses.

The move came in the wake of disclosures that 13 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers
easily acquired Florida driver licenses or ID cards by submitting immigration
documents that the state never tried to check or that were unverifiable. Long
after the terrorists' temporary visas expired, the six-year driver licenses
remained valid, aiding their ability to move freely throughout the country.

Gov. Bush and the Legislature reacted by putting new restrictions on foreigners.
The governor used an executive order to require background checks on all
driver-license applicants who are not American or Canadian citizens. The change
required license examiners to give foreigners 30-day permits while their papers
are being checked. Foreigners who clear the checks receive licenses that are
valid only until their visas expire. Legislators gave the Florida Department of
Highways and Motor Vehicles $500,000 for scanning equipment to copy the
foreigners' documents.

The system has been in place less than two months, and its central flaw appears
catastrophic: The state's DMV employees routinely find themselves cast as
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service workers, and they haven't the
training, experience or resources to do the job. It is another example of how
responsibilities intrinsic to federal government too often are left for the
states to sort out.

Florida should not be resolving national immigration and border control issues.
State license examiners with as little as four hours' training should not become
de facto immigration inspectors. Verification wasn't supposed to give way to
interpretation or, worse, adjudication. The INS has trouble enough unraveling
its own rulings, and now DMV employees also must crawl through the bureaucratic
morass. About 10 percent of Florida's drivers are foreign-born, so what the
state feels now is the first tremor of what promises to be a major eruption.

Immigrant advocates point to more trouble in terms of unintended consequences.
Foreigners who fear challenges to their status, among them legal residents who
have worked or done business in the United States for years, are staying away
from DMV bureaus yet continuing to drive without licenses and without insurance.
How does this make Floridians more secure? The Legislature is considering
whether to adopt the governor's executive order as law. Obviously, the state is
on the wrong road.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              313 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 13, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

ON ANNIVERSARY OF ATTACKS, VISAS FOR HIJACKERS ARRIVE AT FLIGHT SCHOOL

BYLINE: Colleen Mastony, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 735 words


On the six-month anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, a letter arrived at a
Florida flight school announcing that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service had approved student visas for Mohammed Atta and another hijacker,
clearing them for flying lessons.

The approval forms for Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi arrived by mail Monday at
Huffman Aviation in Venice, said Rudi Dekkers, owner of the school where both
Atta and Al-Shehhi took lessons in the latter part of 2000.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron blamed a paperwork backlog for the late mailing and
said the actual approvals had been processed before Sept. 11.

But U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, called the incident "a colossal
failure" by the INS.

"How this couldn't have been discovered by even a rank-and-file worker with
Mohammed Atta's name on it, . . . it's just beyond me," Foley said. "It sounds
like a Keystone Cops operation."

The oddly timed visa notification triggered a new round of demands for reforming
the agency and further underscored problems in collecting and tracking
information on foreign flight students.

"People were quick to blame the flight schools, but obviously there are major
problems at INS," Foley said.

In the months before the attacks, Atta - accused ringleader of the Sept. 11
hijackings - and other terrorists honed their skills in Florida skies. Atta
examined crop-dusters in Belle Glade and flew into the crowded airspace of Miami
International Airport.

Both Atta, 33, and Al-Shehhi, 23, were aboard the two planes that crashed into
the World Trade Towers. Atta was believed to have been at the controls of
American Flight 11, the first plane to hit the World Trade Center. Al-Shehhi was
on United Airlines Flight 175, the second plane.

Bergeron, of INS, said the decision to allow the two men to switch from tourist
to student visas was made "back in July and August of last year."

Bergeron conceded the INS' current background check system does not work. He
said the agency is testing a new Internet-based tracking system for foreign
students, designed to keep a closer watch on them and provide instant
notification of visa changes.

"This shows we need to get this online system up and running," Bergeron said. He
said it is uncertain when the system, now being tested in Georgia and New
England, will be implemented.

The M1 nonimmigrant student visa approval forms for Atta and Al-Shehhi arrived
Monday at Huffman Aviation, 60 miles south of Tampa. Dekkers said Atta and
Al-Shehhi completed the paperwork on Aug. 29, 2000, just before they began their
six-month flight instruction program. Both men were in the United States on
tourist visas, Bergeron said.

The men completed their course Jan. 3, 2001. More than six months later, the INS
approved their student visas; Atta's on July 17, 2001, and Al-Shehhi's on Aug.
9, 2001. The student visas cleared them to stay in the United States until Oct.
1, 2001, the forms showed.

Bergeron said the notification received by the school was actually the second
one sent. The INS notified Atta and Al-Shehhi that their student visa
applications were accepted shortly after they were approved, Bergeron said.

The INS employs a contractor to handle its data entry and mail out
notifications, Bergeron said. But the contractor wasn't told that the data entry
on the cases of Atta and Al-Shehhi no longer was necessary and no notification
had to be sent to the flight school, Bergeron said.

The forms, filled out by an assistant at Huffman, indicated that both men met
the English language requirements to study at the school. Atta listed his
nationality as Egyptian, while Al-Shehhi said he was from United Arab Emirates.

On the form, Atta's name is spelled "Mohomed." The documents indicated the
academic term lasting up to 12 months would cost $27,300.

Foreign students are generally allowed to study in the United States as long as
they apply for student visas, Bergeron said.

Dekkers, who said he faced unrelenting media scrutiny after the attacks for
admitting the students, said the forms vindicated his efforts to follow the law.

"What is odd to me is that the visas were approved six months after they left,"
Dekkers said. "When they hit the buildings they were approved to be here."

Material from the Associated Press and Cox News Service was used in this story.

colleen_mastony@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Mohammed Atta (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              314 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 16, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

INS REASSIGNS 4 IN HIJACKER FUSS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service reassigned four managers Friday amid
public embarrassment over student visas for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers
delivered to a flight school six months after their suicide attacks.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar blamed the blunder on a "breakdown in
communication" that he said "is unacceptable and will not be allowed" in the
agency.

Also Friday, Attorney General John Ashcroft sent a letter to Congress asking for
authority to fire employees of the immigration service who violate government
policies.

"Today, more than ever, we need to ensure that America's borders are secure and
that proper enforcement actions are being taken against those unlawfully present
in the United States," Ashcroft wrote.

The four employees removed Friday had managed INS operations that have come
under recent criticism: regional service centers, including the one that mailed
out the hijackers' visas; INS activities abroad as well as refugees and asylum
seekers; daily operations throughout the agency; and INS inspection teams at
ports of entry.

A spokesman for the Justice Department said the four career managers were being
transferred, not fired.

He said their replacements had been chosen earlier, but the job changes were
speeded up because of this week's visa "debacle."

Student visas arrived Monday at Huffman Aviation, a Venice, Fla., flight school.

Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi, who had taken lessons at the school, flew on
separate flights that crashed into the World Trade Center.

However, that controversy was only the latest of several that have hit the INS,
whose failure to enforce immigration laws has been seen as aiding would-be
terrorists.

The agency has also been under fire for canceling adoptions of Cambodian infants
even after American couples had already picked up their new children. The agency
suspected the children had been part an illegal baby-selling operation.

And last week CBS' 60 Minutes broadcast an accusation, denied by the INS, that
some foreigners are being waved through the Miami airport immigration controls
without having their names checked because of regular computer breakdowns.

Ziglar's action drew a mixed response from lawmakers.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., praised the shake-up as a "strong first step."

"I know how difficult it is to even reassign a federal bureaucrat, and he should
be commended for a tough job done well," Foley said.

But House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said the
reassignments were "entirely cosmetic" changes that would not fix the agency's
"systemic" problems.

"Printing up different titles on business cards isn't going to solve a backlog
of over 5 million cases of people who are attempting to receive documentation
who are legal aliens in the United States and 314,000 illegal aliens - who have
had their day in court and have been ordered deported by a judge - who are still
in the country, and the INS doesn't have the faintest idea of where these people
are."

"My patience has run out," said Sensenbrenner, who is leading an effort in
Congress to break up the agency into two separate parts, one for immigrant
service and the other for law enforcement.

The Bush administration is urging a less radical reform, which would keep both
functions under a single commissioner.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              315 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 16, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

FOLEY SAYS INS IS 'IMPLODING,' URGES REFORM

BYLINE: Ashley M. Heher, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Mark Foley discussed Immigration and Naturalization Service reform,
Florida's gubernatorial election and performed a brief impression of former
President Bill Clinton during an interview on Fox News Channel Friday morning.

The West Palm Beach Republican was a guest on the morning show Fox and Friends.

Speaking from a studio in Fort Lauderdale, Foley called the INS "an agency
that's virtually imploding" and asked his colleagues in Washington to reform the
agency.

"I think Congress has a role and rightful responsibility," Foley said. "There's
something wrong. The agency doesn't know one hand from the other. There are so
many fundamental problems."

The INS came under fire this week after student visas for Mohamed Atta and
Marwan Al-Shehhi, two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, were mailed to a Florida flight
school.

The blunder prompted President Bush and federal lawmakers to call for an
investigation.

INS officials blamed the mix-up on a paperwork logjam and outdated computer
technology.

"Whatever needs to be fixed we better be prepared to do it," Foley said.
"There's no excuse for failing to act now. America is a welcoming melting pot .
. . but we have to make the system more compliant."

aheher@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              316 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 19, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 208 words


BELLE GLADE - Belle Glade police and Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents apprehended 10 Caribbean immigrants whose criminal records here may get
them deported, Belle Glade Lt. Robert Wheelihan said. Using immigration
administrative warrants, authorities on Friday caught eight Jamaican immigrants
with convictions and one Haitian immigrant, Wheelihan said. Another Jamaican man
was caught Monday. Their past convictions range from domestic violence to
weapons possession. They were taken to Krome Detention Center west of Miami.

ROYAL PALM BEACH - A Royal Palm Beach man was shot in the head and left for dead
early Monday by a robber who stole his 1993 Plymouth van from the parking lot of
the Madison Chase Apartments off Belvedere Road, the sheriff's office said.
Witnesses found Benedic Olivier, 34, lying in the parking lot shortly after the
2:30 a.m. incident. He was taken to St. Mary's Medical Center, where he was in
critical condition, a hospital spokeswoman said. Nearly two hours later, police
in Greenacres who were unaware of the shooting tried to make a traffic stop on
the van, deputies said. The man abandoned the car and ran away. Olivier, of
10318 Carmen Lane, has a wife and three children, ages 2 to 6.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              317 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 13, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

SENATE REVIVES BORDER SECURITY BILL

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A once-stalled bill to tighten U.S. border security moved into the fast track
Friday after the lone holdout lawmaker removed his objections and cleared the
way for Senate action next week.

The far-reaching measure, a response to the Sept. 11 terror attacks, calls for
greater tracking of foreign visitors, new restrictions on admitting foreign
students, and more inspectors and investigators for the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Identical legislation passed unanimously in the House in December, but Sen.
Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., objected when backers attempted to rush it through the
Senate.

In an unusually blunt exchange Friday, Byrd laid out his reasons for
single-handedly blocking the border bill.

"I firmly believe that the Senate needs to pass legislation to tighten our
immigration and border security laws," Byrd told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee
hearing.

Despite favoring the bill, the Senate's senior Democrat and best known stickler
for procedure said he opposed the earlier attempts to act on such a
comprehensive measure with little debate, no amendments and a quick vote.

Byrd, who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, made it clear that
holding up the border bill was also a protest to Republicans and President Bush
for failing to add Byrd's $15 billion plans to the $40 billion post-Sept. 11
emergency spending package.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., chief author of the border security bill, urged
that it be passed without delay and announced that the cost would be $3.1
billion over three years.

Republicans pledged to push for money for the projects.

"You're right," Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., told Byrd. "Without the funding, this
can't work."

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              318 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 30, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

DEEDS TO THE FUTURE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 425 words


South Florida's soaring Hispanic population made significant gains during the
past decade in home ownership, evidence that a broad demographic shift also is
growing deep.

Census figures released last week show that 57 percent of Palm Beach County's
Hispanics own their homes, an increase of 4 percentage points from 1990 and
surpassing the 50.2 percent rate of the county's African-Americans. Overall, 75
percent of county residents are homeowners - compared with 70 percent throughout
Florida - led by whites at 82.5 percent. The percentage of owners varies widely,
according to countries of origin. People from Mexico, the county's largest
Hispanic group, have an ownership rate of 44 percent, compared to Cubans with 70
percent. Home ownership among Hispanics throughout Florida rose to 56 percent,
10 points higher than the number nationwide but well behind the 66 percent
ownership of all Americans.

The robust economy of the 1990s drove much of the increase. Interest rates
stayed low while loan incentives and jobs were plentiful. Working families found
that not only could they buy their first home, it was cheaper than paying rent.
Economic problems and political unrest in Latin America brought affluent
immigrants to South Florida, particularly from Colombia, Nicaragua, Venezuela
and Argentina. Well-established Cuban exiles in Miami have provided a nurturing
environment for the other Spanish-speaking immigrants who followed. After 1992,
the northward migration of displaced Hispanics from Miami-Dade after Hurricane
Andrew boosted home-buying in Palm Beach County.

The social implications of home ownership are sweeping. Families who own homes
pay property taxes, and as a result, are more likely to register and cast votes
about how their money is spent. Especially among Mexicans, whose long history of
migrant work has forced them into a transient lifestyle, home ownership means
stability. Children attend the same school year after year and perform better.
Health care improves because of stronger contacts with doctors. Families who own
their homes are more likely to overcome language and cultural barriers.

Home ownership is the emblem of the U.S. middle class, and more Hispanic
families attaining it translates to more assimilation. Immigrants who invest in
real estate also invest in their communities and commit to playing by the rules.
For new arrivals, buying the first family home not only validates the American
dream but also the practical vision of what life as a contributing citizen is
all about.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              319 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 10, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS DETAINED AFTER LANDING ON AREA BEACHES

BYLINE: Dani Davies, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 281 words


Two groups of Haitian nationals, including a 5-year-old boy traveling without
his parents, illegally landed on two Palm Beach County beaches Wednesday night.

United States Border Patrol officials detained 14 people and suspect that three
more eluded them.

The first group of six - - three men and three women - - was reported by a
Highland Beach police officer who spotted the group at 9:14 p.m. Wednesday.

About 2 1/2 hours later, eight more Haitians, including the 5-year-old and a
16-year-old boy, were picked up at Gulfstream Park in Delray Beach.

One Bahamian man, believed to be the smuggler, also was held. He was charging
the Haitians about $2,000 per person to be smuggled into the U.S., according to
Joe Mellia of the border patrol's Miami office.

Mellia could not elaborate on the 5-year-old's situation nor say where his
parents are. The 16-year-old boy also was traveling unaccompanied.

The immigrants were taken to the West Palm Beach office of Border Patrol and
then to the Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County. Special accommodations
will be made for the juveniles. Border Patrol said it was investigating the
smuggler.

Agents confiscated a 21-foot Mako boat from Gulfstream Park, where the
immigrants were found. The agents believe the boat was used in the smuggling
operation, but investigators are unsure whether both groups used the same boat.

Mellia said that the number of incidents of illegal smuggling usually rises when
the ocean is calm. The ocean is rougher in winter and calms in the spring and
summer.

"When the sea conditions become more favorable, smuggling becomes more
favorable," he said.

dani_davies@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              320 of 431 DOCUMENTS

             $%Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida) florida) florida)

           May 15, 2002 Wednesday wednesday wednesday wednesday FINAL
                        EDITION edition edition edition

30-DAY VISA TOO SHORT short short short

SECTION: OPINION, opinion, opinion, opinion, Pg. 16A 16A 16A 16A

LENGTH: 437 words words words words


Congress intends to reinvent the Immigration and Naturalization Service this
year, and the INS intends to make sweeping changes as it fades into extinction.
New restrictions on foreign visitors are inevitable as the federal government
tightens U.S. borders in defense of terrorism. But setting policies that keep
the right people out requires careful calculation, not a thoughtless rush to
action.  action.  action.  action.

One of the worst purported reforms is a proposal that would limit foreign
visitors to 30-day visas unless they could convince the INS otherwise. The
government now allows foreigners to remain for at least six months and up to a
year. INS Commissioner James Ziglar is offering the rule change as a means of
tracking and controlling visitors. By the end of each 30-day period, they would
have to report to an INS office, apply for an extension and pay the government
$140 to do it. The approval of extensions would not be automatic. Mr. Ziglar
wants to require foreigners to show good reason why they should stay longer than
30 days.

If the government goes through with the change, Florida's economy will suffer.
The restriction indiscriminately targets snowbirds instead of terrorists.
Legions of tourists from Canada, Finland, Germany, France, Britain and Ireland
who spend their winters in Florida would pay the price for Mr. Ziglar's reckless
rule writing. Many of the affected visitors own property or businesses here, yet
still would face 30-day limits on their stays. The government intends to tell
the Canadian retiree couple they can still own their condo - but they can use it
only one month a year. The proposal is already noteworthy for the politically
diverse coalition of opponents it has inspired: Immigration attorneys, chambers
of commerce, tourism boards, municipal officials and Gov. Jeb Bush correctly
believe the idea penalizes the wrong foreigners and ultimately all Floridians.

The country needs immigration reform that makes life harder for terrorists, not
tourists. The INS announced last week a considered, reasonable strategy for
tracking foreign students. The government will use a computerized system to
monitor the more than 1 million foreign students attending U.S. schools. The INS
will require colleges and educational institutions to give addresses of
foreigners and report on their progress. At least one of the Sept. 11 hijackers
entered the country on a student visa, and several others attended flight
schools without visas. The critical test for immigration changes is whether they
address problems or create them. The INS seems intent on offering Americans
both.  both.  both.  both.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 2002 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english english english

TYPE: EDITORIAL editorial editorial editorial

          Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.  inc.  inc.


                              321 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 5, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS TO U.S. INCREASE 57% IN 10 YEARS

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America's foreign-born population shot up to 31 million in the year 2000, an
increase of 57 percent over a decade earlier, the U.S. Census Bureau said
Tuesday as it released final results for the latest nationwide count.

The findings confirm the escalating immigration trend that began around 1970,
when the foreign-born numbered 9.6 million and made up fewer than one in 20
persons in the country.

By 2000, the proportion of foreign-born had reached more than one in every 10
residents - 11.1 percent. And their total numbers were the highest in U.S.
history.

Among other findings from the latest census numbers:

* Latin America and Asia provided more than three-quarters of the foreign-born
population in 2000. The census reported that the majority, nearly 52 percent,
came from Latin America and 26 percent from Asia, while just under 16 percent
came from Europe. The numbers are a dramatic departure from 1970, when just over
28 percent of the foreign-born came from Latin America or Asia.

* An increasing number of U.S. residents are reporting difficulties speaking
English. The census found that more than 21 million people age 5 or older said
they spoke English less than "very well" in 2000, an increase from 14 million a
decade earlier.

* Immigrants have shifted their settlement patterns over the past three decades,
so that by 2000 more than 65 percent were living in the West or the South, up
from 38 percent in 1970.

* Estimates of illegal residents remain at roughly 7.5 million.

The census report drew contradictory responses from immigration observers.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, said the
numbers "depict an American success story."

"The nation of immigrants continues to be a beacon of hope and land of
opportunity to immigrant families seeking the American Dream," said Sharry, a
leading advocate for immigrants who credits their recent influx with spurring
the economy and revitalizing cities.

Moreover, Sharry said the proportion of foreign-born is not as high as the
highest rate in history, which came when 15 percent of Americans were
foreign-born during the "great wave" of immigrants of the late 1800s.

Steven Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies,
countered that the proportion of newcomers is growing at an unprecedented rate
and will surpass the proportions of the "great wave" by the end of the decade.

The census numbers indicate the nation is conducting a "huge social experiment,"
said Camarota, whose center favors more immigration controls.

"No country has very attempted to incorporate and assimilate 31 million
newcomers into its society," he said.

Camarota said the "experiment" is being conducted largely without a thorough
public discussion of its wide-ranging costs, including greater suburban sprawl
and heavier traffic, public health expenses, and overcrowding at schools that
are now being asked to pay the extra costs of teaching non-English speakers.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              322 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 12, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SOME NEW IMMIGRANTS ARE MORE LIKE MIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 437 words


The nation's foreign-born population grew by more than 11 million people during
the 1990s, the largest increase for any decade in American history. An
unsettling side effect of the growth is the falling citizenship rate among the
new arrivals.

Analysis of the 2000 Census data from 33 states shows that most of the country's
immigrants have not sought the voting rights and other privileges that citizens
enjoy. Particularly in the Southwest and Midwest, where large numbers of
migrants came to fill new job openings during the decade's economic boom, the
rates of non-citizens soared. In Arizona, 70 percent of foreign-born residents
aren't citizens, and in Nebraska, the rate spiked from 46 percent in 1990 to 68
percent. The citizenship rate of Florida immigrants remained static - rising
from 43 percent in 1990 to 45 percent - suggesting that the state may have
attracted higher numbers of foreigners who came for reasons other than a
temporary job.

Millions of Mexican workers crossed the border into Arizona, California and
Texas to claim lower-wage jobs. Many of those workers never intended to reside
in the United States permanently and left when recession came. Many others who
have decided to stay will seek citizenship after dealing with the more pressing
priorities that getting established in a new land demands. Immigrants of all
eras have needed time to assimilate, so accurate judgments about the latest wave
will take years to make.

No one disputes, however, that the percentage of Americans living in America is
lower than it has been in 70 years. The census found 11.1 percent of the
population to be foreign-born, a level not seen since the Great Depression but
still lower than the high of 14.8 percent in 1890. A century ago, most
immigrants came from Europe, crossed an ocean, made a commitment to a new life
and had no intention of leaving. More than half of the U.S. foreign-born
population comes from Latin America, and many in this group are misidentified as
immigrants when they really are migrants.

While new arrivals have lifted the economy, revitalized neighborhoods and
enriched cultural diversity, they also challenge public health systems, social
services and schools. The census found more than 21 million people age 5 or
older who said they spoke English less than "very well," compared with 14
million in 1990. The number of illegal residents is believed to be roughly 7.5
million.

Behind the numbers, this wave of immigration is different from earlier ones. In
a post-Sept. 11 world, distinguishing the differences and dealing with them is
this decade's challenge.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              323 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 20, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

LET MEXICO SCORE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 421 words


Mexico entered a period of national mourning this week after its 2-0 World Cup
soccer loss to the United States. The devastating defeat was the fitting
metaphor for a year of disappointing relations with Americans. After much
promise and expectation, next to nil has materialized.

President Bush made Mexico the centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy during his
first six months in office, and meetings with Mexican President Vicente Fox
raised expectations on immigration reform. Mr. Fox hoped to see a guest-worker
program that would allow Mexicans to cross the border legally, hold temporary
jobs, then return home. Sept. 11 killed those hopes. The attacks not only pushed
Mexico far off the administration's priority list, they touched off a backlash
against immigrants in general. Mexican workers find fewer legal routes into the
U.S. today than a year ago and fewer jobs because of the recession. Plans that
would enable the 3 million Mexicans living in the United States to attain legal
residency were discarded on Sept. 12.

Mr. Fox is suffering politically for the disappointment. Mexicans believed that
he and Mr. Bush had struck a friendship that would translate into public-policy
gains, but they have seen none of it. Instead, petty disputes annoy both sides.

Drought has caused friction over sharing water from the Rio Grande. Mr. Fox
canceled a visit to Texas this month because of quarrels over the water debt.
Last week, he lashed out at Washington for "isolationist and discriminatory"
restrictions that Congress imposed on Mexican trucks. Law-enforcement officials
in California have threatened to sue Mexico over its refusal to extradite
hundreds of violent fugitives. Mexico long has banned extradition of suspects to
countries with the death penalty, and last year expanded the ban to countries
with life sentences, which the Mexican Supreme Court has declared cruel and
unusual punishment, too.

Mexicans believe they have lost too much to Americans lately, and the World Cup
may hurt worst of all. Soccer matters so much in Mexico that Mr. Fox summoned
his Cabinet to watch the pre-dawn telecasts. In Mexico City, a church displays a
statue of the baby Jesus that has been rechristened "The Holy Child of Soccer."
Mr. Fox's popularity in opinion polls is sure to plummet because of the loss. A
year ago, President Bush was right to describe Mr. Fox as a friend of America
and democracy in a region where many leaders are neither. For both countries,
the friendship is too valuable to lose.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              324 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 20, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

VISA REFORMS TO HURT TOURISM, COMMITTEE TOLD

BYLINE: Stephen Krupin, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Small businesses stand to lose billions of dollars in tourism revenue if the
Immigration and Naturalization Service pursues a proposed anti-terrorism measure
limiting the length of visitor visas, travel industry representatives told
Congress Wednesday.

In an effort to tighten the nation's borders, the INS is considering reducing
the default length of tourist visas from six months to 30 days, leaving it up to
applicants to demonstrate their need for a longer stay. The visas would then be
granted for a period "fair and reasonable for the completion of the purpose of
the visit," according to INS Commissioner James Ziglar.

Fifteen of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers entered the U.S. on visitor visas that
would be limited by the proposed regulation.

But small businesses that rely on international visitors told the House
Committee on Small Business the proposal is an unwelcome obstacle to the ailing
industry.

"If foreign travelers decide to travel elsewhere due to the uncertainty that is
inherent in the daunting visa policy, the travel and tourism industry could lose
billions," said Thomas Sullivan of the Small Business Administration.

The Commerce Department said foreign visitors spent $70 billion in 2000, and
travel industry estimates calculate that the visa limitations could reduce
spending in the U.S. by overseas travelers by almost $2.1 billion.

Testifying via videotape, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush criticized the proposal. He said
the rule would cost Florida as much as $3.2 billion in tourist spending.

Del Highfield, whose West Palm Beach camping resort matches the national average
size for commercial parks, said his biggest concern is the regulation's effect
on Canadian campers, who make up a quarter of his business. "These visitors also
pump $250,000 into the local economy," he said. "Without their extended stays,
our ability to continue to operate would be in question."

skrupin@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              325 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 28, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

LOGIC FOREIGN TO U.S. IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 766 words


Anyone who tells you he understands U.S. immigration policy is a liar, a fool or
a member of the Bush administration.

The nation's approach to foreigners was a hodgepodge of contradiction, political
contortion and irrational lawmaking before Sept. 11. It continues to deteriorate
as government tightens borders and flails wildly against terrorism. Anecdotes
from the past week describe best the nation's schizophrenic state of mind about
immigrants.

Start with the scene Tuesday, a mile offshore, just south of Key Largo. Officers
on a Coast Guard vessel spotted eight Cuban men on a 12-foot aluminum boat with
a 26-horsepower engine. As authorities approached, five of the men jumped into
the water - several donning fins and snorkel masks.

The swimming preparations were critical. Three of the men made it to shore and
to freedom. The government will allow their release and permit them to stay
here. Cuban migrants - only Cuban migrants - are granted asylum if they reach
U.S. soil. The Coast Guard intercepted the other five men at sea, and they face
an uncertain future - possibly including return to the island.

U.S. policy toward Cuban immigration would seem to be based on recruiting elite
swimmers. Actually, it stems from language in 1994 and '95 agreements with Cuba,
popularly known as the wet-foot, dry-foot policy. The five men caught in the
water could not close the deal with a strong freestyle kick. It is a failure
that U.S. policy does not tolerate.

Meanwhile, the Justice Department is making futile attempts to crack down on
Honduran and Nicaraguan refugees. While swimming separates one Cuban migrant
from another, the critical factor for Hondurans and Nicaraguans is Hurricane
Mitch. The 1998 storm caused the countries to lose about 70 percent of their
gross domestic products, so the United States offered refugees temporary
protected status as part of an aid package.

About 100,000 Hondurans and 5,000 Nicaraguans qualified. About 95,000 haven't
renewed their status and must apply for an extension by July 2. If they don't,
the government says it will try to deport them. Realistically, that's unlikely.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service has more pressing matters. Most of
the Hondurans and Nicaraguans are destined to miss the deadline and become
permanent resident illegal aliens - albeit permanent resident quasi-legal
illegal aliens. Their children born here become U.S. citizens and have good
reason to be named Mitch or Michelle.

In Washington, a fierce battle goes on over INS plans that would restrict
foreign tourists to 30-day visas. The idea is remarkable for the opponents lined
up against it - a group that includes almost everyone not in the Bush
administration. The travel industry says it could lose billions. Florida
business leaders are horrified. Gov. Jeb Bush denounced his brother's plan as
"unreasonable."

Already the proposed change is catching snowbirds in the terrorist net. A
Canadian told members of Congress that one of his countrymen was turned away at
the border because he could not produce a deed to his U.S. winter home. Until
Sept. 11, Canadians had no trouble entering the United States with little more
than a library card and a smile.

But what you absolutely don't want to be if you intend to make it to America is
Haitian. You can be an Olympic swimmer with three dry feet and not get in if
you're Haitian. Hurricane Georges devastated Haiti in 1998, but U.S. immigration
policy offered no relief. Haitian snowbirds? There aren't any.

This week, members of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights agreed to investigate
the government's detainment of about 200 Haitians in Miami-Dade County. On Dec.
3, a 31-foot sailboat named Simapvivetzi foundered off Miami with 187 Haitians
aboard. The Coast Guard rescued 167. Two drowned, and 18 swam to shore, wasted
effort for non-Cubans.

The Haitians asked for political asylum. Before Sept. 11, before Dec. 3 even,
the government's policy was to release Haitian refugees while the INS reviewed
their cases. The Bush administration, fearing a mass exodus from the island,
decided to change that. The government has held the Haitians, many in
maximum-security jail cells without access to attorneys or explanation of their
status.

Three weeks ago, one of the detainees tried to hang himself with a noose made
from cloth found in the bathroom. The best advice for any foreigner planning to
risk life itself to come to America? Don't be Haitian.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              326 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 30, 2002 Sunday SOUTH EDITION

5 ARRESTED ON DRUG CHARGES IN BOYNTON CLUB

BYLINE: John Murawski, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


Local and federal authorities capped a two-month investigation late Friday by
raiding a local nightclub, arresting five people on drug charges and detaining
30 illegal immigrants.

Boynton Beach also will file code violations against the Taco N'tento Bar, among
them nude dancing without a permit, said Boynton Beach Police Sgt. Thomas
McCabe.

Boynton Beach police, assisted by five agents from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, raided the nightclub at 11:10 p.m. Friday.

Among the 30 Hispanic immigrants were five who were in the United States after
having been previously deported, McCabe said. These repeat offenders will face
stiffer federal charges, he said.

Boynton Beach police charged five people with selling cocaine and possession of
drug paraphernalia. One of those arrested was a juvenile. Another was the
establishment's bouncer and manager, Ivan Renteria Jaimes, the 19-year-old son
of the bar's owner. The Boynton Beach resident was being held at Palm Beach
County Jail on $5,000 bail.

Police also confiscated drugs and cash, McCabe said.

Police released 17 people without charges in the late-night sweep.

The nightclub's operators were not available for comment Saturday.

john_murawski@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              327 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 13, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION NO LONGER CAN SOLVE LABOR SHORTAGE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 131 words


In response to Dan Moffett's July 5 column "Living well? Thank an immigrant":
There are better solutions to the shortage of manual labor than relying on
immigration.

The United States is no longer a vast and underpopulated country in need of
unskilled immigrants. The railroads have been built, and most of the wilderness
has been cleared. The country now suffers from shortages of resources to
accommodate the current population. We are plagued by road congestion,
destruction of the environment and overcrowded classrooms, to name a few.

There are solutions that would better solve manual labor scarcity without
resulting in unsustainable population growth - increased automation and the
raising of wages in areas of labor shortages.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              328 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 23, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

INS RENEWS PUSH FOR IMMIGRANT ADDRESSES

BYLINE: Julia Malone, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft said Monday that the government will issue new
regulations to resurrect a long-ignored, 50-year-old requirement that
noncitizens notify the government of address changes.

Having up-to-date addresses would "increase our ability to locate quickly an
alien if removal proceedings must be initiated," Ashcroft said while attending
an anti-crime forum in Alberta.

The announcement included no new mechanism for keeping track of millions of
visitors and residents who are technically required to report to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service within 10 days of each move.

Some permanent residents and seasonal visitors may be offended by the
requirement, said Peter Makila of Lake Worth, the honorary consul for Finland
for Florida.

"I don't think this is the solution," Makila said. "I'm afraid more and more
people are going to leave here and that's not good for our economy."

Some immigration attorneys began advising clients months ago to send in the
change-of-address forms because of renewed vigilance after Sept. 11.

West Palm Beach attorney Jeffrey Devore said he started telling clients about
the form when he learned that INS charged an Atlanta man with a crime for
failing to report his new address. Devore said he also advises his clients to
send the form by certified mail to have a record that it reached the INS.

The form, called AR-11, can be downloaded from the INS Web site at
www.ins.usdoj.gov or ordered by calling (800) 870-3676. There is no filing fee.

Also on Monday, Ashcroft asked the State Department to add nine new groups to
its list of 39 terrorist organizations.

Staff writer Bill Douthat contributed to this story.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              329 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 4, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

A NEW HEADACHE FOR THE ARTS

BYLINE: By Sharon McDaniel Palm Beach Post Arts Writer

SECTION: ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. 7K

LENGTH: 1583 words


Since Sept. 11, arts groups throughout South Florida are finding that it takes
much more time, work, clout - and money - to bring foreign conductors and
musicians into the United States.

A visa for temporary employment, essential for entering the country, used to
take 60 days to process, 90 at the most. Now the wait is four months or more,
which last season forced organizations to hire lawyers, pay thousands of dollars
in extra fees and replace artists who couldn't get into the country on time.

Take the Palm Beach Opera. Before Sept. 11, it had applied for visas for all but
one of its guest performers: baritone Reda El Wakil, who was scheduled to appear
in Wagner's Tannhauser in April.

El Wakil is a 42-year-old Egyptian. And after Sept. 11, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service scrutinized all applicants, but reserved even closer
attention for Middle Eastern nationals, especially men ages 16-45.

"We decided to wait for things to calm down, not file (his visa application)
right away," says Maria Nagid, the opera's artistic and music coordinator. "Then
we applied in December and, well, it was very bad."

The INS mailed the package back to her every time it had a question.

"They would find little things that they never saw before - you know,
bureaucratic kinds of things," says Nagid, who has handled applications for
artists' visas since she joined the company nine years ago.

Eventually, by paying a special $1,000 fast-track processing fee to the INS,
they got El Wakil to West Palm Beach in time for rehearsals on March 25.

The Florida Philharmonic Orchestra, the state's largest, wasn't as lucky. The
week before a March 18 concert, it needed a fast replacement for Romanian-born
guest conductor Uri Mayer, whose visa was still in limbo. Only, he wasn't coming
from Cairo; he was coming from Canada.

Four South Florida arts organizations reported difficulties in getting foreign
guest artists into the country during the eight months of the 2001-02 season. It
took so long for the INS to approve their visas that most missed their scheduled
arrival dates and at least two had to be replaced.

"It's not unusual, in light of Sept. 11," says Susan Dryden, deputy director of
public affairs for the Department of Justice.

Dryden says Florida generates an unusually large number of applications.
"Florida is definitely an area where we have high populations coming in and out
of the United States."

The INS processes more than 8 million applications of all types annually, and
The New York Times reported that U.S. consulates abroad turned down 27 percent
of all applications from last October to March, compared with 24 percent for the
12 months before that.

According to the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the INS is
underfunded, understaffed and has been declining for the last five years. In a
May 2001 publication, it calls the crisis in processing visas a "meltdown."

No sign of relief

Without radical reorganization of the INS, the lawyers' group forecasts still
longer delays. For the time-sensitive performing arts, it could be crippling.

"We're nonprofit organizations, dependent on sticking to a performance schedule
to guarantee our survival," says Jan Denton, executive director of the American
Arts Alliance. The Washington, D.C.-based consortium, whose members include the
America Symphony Orchestra League, Opera America, DanceUSA and the Association
of Performing Arts Presenters, is in high gear to resolve the problem.

"It's the most horrific thing for the opera companies," says Juliette de
Marcellus, Palm Beach music teacher, author and former music critic. "And the
stress it puts on a music organization - at the opera, they're pulling their
hair out. And the singers themselves are turning up so nervous that they can
hardly think."

Even international stars, like France's renowned jazz violinist Jean-Luc Ponty,
who performed July 27 at the Carefree Theatre, have experienced delays and
mix-ups. A tangle of confusing paperwork and a missing form meant that work
permits for his band - one Frenchman and two West Africans living in France -
were in question up to the last minute, making Ponty wonder whether he would
have to cancel his two-week U.S. tour.

"And you cannot go to a consulate - everything has to be sent by mail and they
send it back and it was not (correct). And by the time it had to be (ready), we
thought we had to cancel the tour," says Ponty, in Paris. "Fortunately, we
managed to contact someone on the phone at the consulate - which is really
tricky! And it happened to be a fan, the chief deputy of the visa service. So we
met and it was done in 45 minutes. It was a close call."

Miami's Florida Grand Opera, in a panic, also had to call for a favor. Sen. Bob
Graham's staff sent messages to U.S. embassies in London, Rome and Moscow to get
visas for three of the four leading cast members of Donizetti's comedy Don
Pasquale, all making their Florida debuts. Still, when the production opened in
Miami on May 8, it was missing the original French soprano - her visa was
approved only within days of opening night.

Unpredictable delays

Arts groups complain of unpredictable delays and slow processing by a government
agency they can't reach by telephone. INS instructions on its Web site aren't
always up-to-date, they say. Florida arts groups feel there is a shortage of
knowledgeable application evaluators. Finding someone familiar with the arts is
next to impossible, they say, and makes determining an artist's "outstanding
exceptional ability" or international reputation, a slow, drawn-out effort.

"It's very, very sluggish and it's unfortunate because the backlog certainly
affects the arts - financially and culturally. It's just that the INS must
confirm who (applicants) are - that they are who they say they are," says North
Palm Beach attorney Miriam Acosta-Castriz, who was hired by the Greater Palm
Beach Symphony Orchestra after an unsuccessful eight-month struggle to bring in
a Russian guest conductor.

The Florida Philharmonic and Miami City Ballet have turned to immigration
attorneys with entertainment-industry experience. Miami City Ballet has the pro
bono services of top Miami attorney, author and lecturer Luis Cordero. And
Executive Director Pamela Gardiner handles daily details for close to 20 visas
and green cards held by company dancers.

Referring to the INS slowdown, she cringes at having to deal with the agency
more than absolutely necessary: "No God, I'd kill myself!"

Florida Philharmonic General Manager Neil Birnbaum was trying to cut expenses
when, a month before Sept. 11, he revised the standard guest-artist contract.
It's now the artist's - or the artist's manager's - job to get the visa.

"Now we don't have to have one full-time person chasing down government agencies
all the time. It was a nightmare," says Birnbaum. After the Canadian conductor
snafu in March, he'll opt for Americans: "If I needed someone in under four
months, I would not put myself through the brain damage and stress of trying to
get someone from out of the country. It's just not worth it."

Money speeds process

But most disturbing to arts managers is the "premium processing fee,"
implemented by the INS in June 2001. For $1,000, the INS agrees to process an
application in 14 days - not four months. If the INS can't issue a decision in
14 days, it must refund the money. And the INS is released from its 14-day
promise if any part of a petition is found to be incomplete or incorrect.

"I have seen enough unwarranted (questions by the INS) to suspect that there are
times when the premium processing unit at a service center knows that it's not
going to meet the deadline otherwise," states Virginia immigration attorney
Jonathan Ginsburg, one of the leading advisors to national arts groups.
"Somebody there cobbles together a request for information. All they've got to
do is send that out and they've just bought themselves another 15 days and
there's not a damned thing you can do about it."

The INS does have another more affordable option available to nonprofits: a free
14-day processing service for emergencies. Some groups that requested it feel
the INS is pushing the $1,000 fee instead.

Processing imbalance

Miami attorney Cordero says he suspects that "only premium processing is getting
the largest number of (INS staff) assigned to it, and that slows down the
(regular) cases."

The INS hopes the visa slowdown will improve soon. "There has been a delay in
the processing of petitions based on the new requirements that all applicants be
checked against a compilation of law-enforcement databases," says Christopher S.
Bentley,

INS spokesman in Washington, D.C. "And in the process of handling the
applications, there has been a learning curve. Processing times should be coming
down now, so there are fewer delays to performing artists coming into the United
States."

Several arts organizations are lobbying Congress for a change in the rules.
"Congress is expected to pass a major immigration reform bill this year, which
provides an opportunity to address the arts community's difficulties," says
Denton of the American Arts Alliance.

At the same time, she says, "The American Symphony Orchestra League and others
are plugging away at educating their people."

But Denton admits, "Right now, it's grim. I tell people to just hang on a little
longer and do the absolute best they can."

sharon_mcdaniel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C); 1. Reda El Wakil (mug) 2. Jean-Luc Ponty (mug)

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              330 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 25, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

EVIDENCE OF AN OUTRAGE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 398 words


Mazen Al-Najjar earned master's and doctoral degrees from the University of
South Florida in Tampa and was teaching at USF on an expired 1981 student visa.
Even though he had no country to go to after finishing his studies, even though
his three daughters, now 13, 11 and 7, are American-born and his parents also
are citizens, the Palestinian without a passport was denied asylum in May 1997.
He then was imprisoned for 4 1/2 years - without ever being charged with a
crime. His deportation last week was as inhumane as his almost routine solitary
confinement.

In 1995, the FBI had raided a now-defunct Islamic think tank, the World and
Islam Studies Enterprises, that Dr. Najjar helped to found at USF. A former
member of WISE had resurfaced as head of the Palestinian terrorist group Islamic
Jihad. So when the federal government first claimed to have secret evidence that
Dr. Najjar had raised money for a terrorist organization, Immigration Judge R.
Kevin McHugh denied bail.

But in this unconstitutional nightmare, the government never has allowed Dr.
Najjar to confront the supposed evidence. In May 2000, after administrative
appeals were exhausted, a federal trial court judge ruled in Dr. Najjar's habeas
corpus lawsuit that he had been denied due process during his bail hearing three
years earlier. Worse, at the immigration rehearing, Judge McHugh concluded from
the government's summary of the evidence that Dr. Najjar was hardly a threat to
national security.

"The court finds it remarkable," Judge McHugh said in his 56-page ruling, "that
out of 500 videotapes that were seized, from which a 13-minute composite tape
was created, not one excerpt of the composite depicted (Dr. Najjar) engaging in
fund-raising for any organization." The judge went on, "To the contrary, there
is evidence in the record to support the conclusion that WISE was a reputable
and scholarly research center."

Even so, the government appealed all the way to then-Attorney General Janet Reno
before Dr. Najjar's December 2000 release. That was before the government used
the Sept. 11 hijackings as pretext to rearrest him in November, despite
acknowledging that he had nothing to do with the attacks. The result is that Dr.
Najjar is seeking a country - Bahrain turned him down last week - where he can
try to salvage a family and professional life that the government has ruined.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              331 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 1, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS LIST OWN STRAIN SINCE SEPT. 11

BYLINE: By PILAR ULIBARRI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The Rev. Alex Agudelo hears more than just confessions as a priest at St.
Juliana Catholic Church.

Increasingly during the past year, he has been listening to fears about
deportation, something that consumes some of his parishioners who recently
emigrated from Latin America.

"Since Sept. 11, immigration laws have changed dramatically," Agudelo said. "And
people are more scared, but I think it's mainly because of the lack of
information and communication. I think if they get official answers to their
many legal doubts, they will have hope."

So Agudelo opened up the church on Dixie Highway Saturday and invited
representatives from the Mexican, Guatemalan, Colombian, Honduran and Salvadoran
consulates in Miami to address the community's fears.

"I can't believe the turnout," said Carlos Cisneros, director of the Guatemalan
Maya Quetzal Association. "Last year, nobody came, but this year I went door to
door handing out flyers. I passed out more than 1,000."

More than 400 people attended the meeting to learn more about immigration
regulations that have been tightened since last fall's terrorist attacks, when
government officials soothed the nation by promising to monitor foreigners
better.

Before the consulate representatives spoke, Agudelo assured the crowd that those
who are in the country illegally had nothing to fear at the meeting.

"Do not worry," he said. "I have spoken to the police and the proper authorities
and they have promised that there will be no problems here today, so you can
rest easy."

Many told of frustrations.

"I can't renew my driver's license," said Gustavo Lopez, a Honduran who lives in
West Palm Beach, who is here illegally. "Now, since Sept. 11, if you can't show
legal residency, they take away your license."

He said he wants to obey the law but it's almost impossible now.

"How am I supposed to get to work?" he said.

Jose Eliodoro, a Salvadoran who lives in Lake Worth, is here legally but on his
birth certificate someone spelled his last name with an "H," turning it into
Helidoro.

"I can't tell you what a difference one letter makes," he said of constant calls
and letters he receives from immigration officials. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service "thinks I'm trying to trick them. But they don't know
that the 'professionals' in my country aren't very professional and mistakes
like that happen all the time."

Consulate representatives explained the importance of renewing passports, a
simple procedure many immigrants put off for fear that contact with authorities
could result in deportation.

"That's the only way you could ever get legal status in this country," said Luz
Elena Banos, the Mexican representative, who will be back at St. Juliana Oct. 19
renewing passports.

They also warned of scam artists.

"You can fill out almost any paperwork for free," said Carlos Alas, the
Salvadoran delegate. "You need to know that because many lawyers try to take
advantage of you and charge you hundreds of dollars because you don't know any
better and all they are doing is handing you a pen."

But in the end, the people cared mostly about their individual cases.

So Agudelo assigned a table to each consulate and the people formed long lines
to bombard the representatives with their stories, all ending with the same
question: "What do I do now?"

pilar_ulibarri@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: ;SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer Laura Varrela holds her sleeping
daughter, Jaime Mendoza, while Graciela Gomez gives her son, Jorge Salmeron Jr.,
a kiss as they listen to representatives from consulates of various Hispanic
nations speak Saturday in West Palm Beach. Hundreds of Hispanic residents sought
answers about their legal status.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              332 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     September 2, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

SKILLED WORKERS GROWING SCARCER

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Although job growth is sputtering as the nation celebrates this Labor Day, the
future looks bright for American workers who complete college degrees or sharpen
their technical skills.

Employers are bracing for a major work-force shortage that is expected to make
new managerial and professional jobs plentiful during the next decade.

Only applicants with college degrees or advanced vocational training will
qualify for the vast majority of these new posts, however. Business groups are
increasingly worried that the nation's schools are not preparing enough workers
to fill them.

A shortage of 6 million college graduates during the next 10 years is predicted
by Ronald E. Bird, who just completed a report on the work force for the
Employment Policy Foundation, a private research group.

What's more, Bird said, the college graduation rate is actually declining among
young workers. Among those aged 23-34, about 25 percent had college degrees as
of 1998, he said. That's 3 percentage points below the rate for 35- to
54-year-olds.

Contributing to the lack of skills among workers has been three decades of
large-scale immigration, legal and illegal, based largely on family ties and not
on skills or education.

Among working-age established immigrants, 34 percent lacked a high school
diploma in 2000, according to the Center for Immigration Studies, a research
group that favors restrictions on immigration. By comparison, fewer than 10
percent of native-born Americans had not graduated from high school.

The coming skills crunch has set off alarms in corporate boardrooms and in small
businesses, and helped spur the current reform movement in education.

"The needs of employers have changed," said Roberta Shulman, who specializes in
work-force issues at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a private Washington business
group.

"There's a whole different level" of literacy and teamwork required for the new
jobs, Shulman said. "Employers in surveys tell us this is what is lacking in the
work force."

In a sign of concern about the skills shortfall, President Bush last week
announced a program to encourage more rigorous college-preparatory courses for
high schools in five states to be chosen next month.

Appearing at a school in Little Rock, Ark., the president said deficiencies at
high schools mean almost half of college students must attend remedial courses.

That lack of adequate preparation, as well as growing tuition costs, have been
blamed for discouraging many high school graduates from completing their college
degrees.

At the same time, those without advanced studies are increasingly at a
disadvantage in the job market.

"A generation ago, a typical college graduate earned only 50 percent more than
the typical high school graduate in full-time employment," said the Employment
Policy Foundation report.

A worker today with a college degree makes almost twice as much as the high
school graduate, the study said.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              333 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 4, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

JOBS LURED MOST FINNISH IMMIGRANTS DURING 1800S

BYLINE: Antti Mansikkamaki

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 6, Finnish Focus<

LENGTH: 538 words


There was a wave of Finnish immigration to America in the late 1800s and early
1900s. Most of the men worked in tough jobs such as mining and the timber
industry, and the women usually were servants and maids.

I found an interesting study published by Finnish Institute of Migration.
According to Finnish passport records and passenger manifests, about 400,000
Finns immigrated to North America between 1870 and 1930. Approximately 320,000
of them moved to the United States and 80,000 to Canada. In reality, these
numbers are believed to be slightly lower because of duplicate records.

In the 1860s and 1870s North America had a workforce shortage and needed
immigrants to fill jobs. The first Finns to hear of this were the ones living in
northern Norway, but the word spread quickly, and in the end, the Ostrobothnians
(central western Finland) were the most eager people to explore new
opportunities.

Every migrant had his or her own reason for leaving. Some were just adventurous,
others wanted to evade joining the Tsar's army before Finland was independent.
But the most common reason was the economic situation.

In the 1800s, strong population growth created economic pressure and
industrialization in the farming industry shrank the need for workers. The
Soviet threat and fear of communism were also factors.

Advancements in transportation made it possible to travel farther and faster
than ever before. The United States was going through fast industrialization in
the late 1800s, and had lots of jobs available. Farmland was being given to
farmers for free, per the 1862 Homestead Act.

Also, many American Finns who had moved there earlier wrote letters home about
work opportunities and a better life. These letters were sometimes published in
the media. In a depressing time, many people found those accounts persuasive and
considered the pursuit of freedom in America worthwhile, although many had no
clear idea what it meant.

Migrants' first hurdle usually was paying for the trip. Most of them had to
borrow money from relatives or friends who had already immigrated to America.

To board the ship, you had to have meant a passport, health certificate and
proof of completed military service.

The most popular route to America was through Sweden, because Ostrobothnians had
good connections to Swedish ports that provided connections to America.

Finns usually traveled in third class, where conditions were often worse than
ship companies had told them. The trip from Finland to a U.S. port in the east
coast took about two weeks. Finnish immigrants usually entered North America
through New York, Boston or Quebec.

Many immigrants had great expectations and were disappointed. It's estimated
that 22 percent to 33 percent of them returned home eventually. Some immigrants
had traveled to America just to earn enough money to return to Finland and buy
their own home or farm.

Records show that more men than women, more wealthy than poor, and more old
people than young returned to Finland.

Antti Mansikkamaki writes about the Finnish community for Neighborhood Post.
Send mail to 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL. 33405. Call 820-4763,
fax 837-8320.

- neighborhood@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lake Worth / Lantana

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              334 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 10, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

ARRESTED WORKERS HAD ACCESS TO AIRPLANES

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


At least two airport cleaning staff workers arrested last week for allegedly
falsifying identification documents had access to the airplanes, according to
testimony in court Monday.

It is not clear how many more of the 14 men and women, all Hispanic immigrants,
could get into restricted areas at Palm Beach International Airport. But Ana
Rosa Jimenez, 28, and Eduardo Becerra, 24, told a federal judge they worked
"cleaning the planes."

They and the others are accused of presenting false Social Security and resident
alien cards to gain employment - highlighting another possible hole in airport
security.

Three of the workers said they held second cleaning jobs at another prominent
target for violence: the Palm Beach County Courthouse. Some still wore their
shirts from Associated Cleaning Consultant Services, the business contracted by
the county to clean the courthouse. Most wore shackles and handcuffs.

Chief Circuit Judge Edward Fine said he was not aware any undocumented
immigrants worked in the courthouse and would check on the firm's background and
screening procedures. The discovery, he said, was good. "It's good because it
shows us a possible flaw in our system where it hasn't caused us any harm yet,"
Fine said.

Airport and federal officials would not comment. Arrested in a federal sweep of
South Florida airports last week, all but one of the 14 people arrested locally
will remain jailed, awaiting their day in court on the charges. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service also will begin proceedings against each person, said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Karen Atkinson. Fifteen others were arrested in Fort
Lauderdale and Miami.

They each could face a maximum of five years in prison for falsifying Social
Security numbers and a maximum of 10 years for falsifying resident alien cards.
The one defendant allowed to remain out of jail is 40-year-old Vera Monomachoff
of West Palm Beach. Atkinson agreed to her release because Monomachoff has an
autistic daughter who no one else could care for.

Monomachoff emigrated from Argentina to the United States last year for the sake
of her daughter, 15-year-old Agar Alejandra Caro.

"In Argentina, there were no schools, no diapers, nothing for someone like her,"
Monomachoff said Monday, as she fed her daughter at home. She is forbidden to
work, but is her daughter's only financial supporter.

Monomachoff said her ex-husband got her the documents she used at the airport,
but she doesn't know where they came from "If I knew, I would tell you,"
Monomachoff said.

Staff writer Bill Douthat contributed to this story.

susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer Vera Monomachoff, with
daughter Agar Alejandra Caro, was among those arrested. Monomachoff was released
from jail to care for Caro, who is autistic.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              335 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 15, 2002 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FROM BOCA FIND BOND WITH JUDAISM IN ISRAEL

BYLINE: By LARRY KAPLOW Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: RAMAT BEIT SHEMESH, ISRAEL


It might seem as if it's been one problem after another for Rachel and Stanley
Robinowitz as they adjust to their new life in Israel.

They've had health problems, moving problems and plumbing problems.

And they're loving it.

Rachel Robinowitz, 53, has had to spend long days in the hospital waiting for
Stanley's outpatient care. But she loved how hospital volunteers insisted that
she feed on their hot meals while she waits.

Neither Rachel nor Stanley, 63, was healthy enough to sit through the full
services for Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, last week. But they loved the
neighborhood atmosphere at their synagogue and the young mothers at prayers with
their baby strollers.

They were dismayed when the man installing their washing machine flooded the
apartment. But they loved that the plumber who came to fix it scolded them
because their mezuza, the doorway prayer scroll, had been knocked askew.

"There are small things, big things, that have brought such a sense of fullness
to everyday life," said Rachel.

The Robinowitzes, formerly of Boca Raton, are among 530 North Americans who
immigrated to Israel this summer. They came in July aboard a chartered flight
that was highly publicized here and in America.

The immigrants, given grants by their organizing group, Nefesh B'Nefesh,
provided a boost to Israeli morale. For nearly two years, Israel has been
engaged in a conflict with Palestinians that has included scores of Palestinian
terror attacks. Visits from tourists and business travelers have dropped off
sharply, leaving many Israelis feeling the country is isolated.

The immigrants include young families with small children, yuppie singles and
retirees. Last week, in their separate neighborhoods and new homes, they
celebrated Rosh Hashanah. At sundown today, they will begin the Yom Kippur holy
day of atonement.

Just being here has given the annual rituals a special life for the newcomers.

Hindy Strauss, also formerly of Boca Raton, came to Jerusalem with her husband
and three children a year ago, but she took a trip back to the United States and
her official immigration did not occur until she arrived with the Nefesh
B'Nefesh group in July.

During the Jewish New Year last year, the family was still in disarray from the
move. This year, Strauss was able to savor it. She discovered that many of the
synagogues in her neighborhood offered sunrise services.

That meant Strauss, 33, could attend the services on her own while her children
slept under husband Steve's watch.

"I walked out and the stars were still in the sky, just fading," she said. "It
was just beautiful. I felt, saying my prayers, that this was the better place
for communicating with God."

According to Rabbi Yehoshua Fass, who runs Nefesh B'Nefesh and moved to Israel
with the group, none of the new immigrants has expressed a desire to return to
America. They're settling down into Hebrew classes and job searches. Some
already have found work. Some work online with firms across the Atlantic.

Sometimes, Fass said, the grind of the moving logistics, the culture shock and
the language barrier make the newcomers forget "the big picture" of why they
came. So, Fass' group has organized gatherings - one was a picnic and hike in
scenic hills, another a talk from an immigrant psychologist - to help reduce the
stress.

Jews are granted automatic citizenship by Israeli law, and the government
provides them tax breaks, low-rate mortgages, language training and other
assistance.

Bringing Jews to the region has been a cause since before the state was born in
1948 and remains a national priority. It serves to build the country, offer
refuge to Jews under persecution and, as Palestinians bitterly note, to give
Jews a demographic edge.

For the immigrants, moving here often means living with fewer conveniences than
they find in the United States and struggling with the often tense Israeli
lifestyle.

But many say they were tired of being a Jewish minority in America, just tired
of feeling different. They say the loss in creature comforts here is made up for
by the spiritual benefits of living where Judaism sets the timetable for
weekends and holidays. Taxi drivers can quote the Old Testament. Many immigrants
say it's an inspiration just to be on the land they believe God promised the
Jews.

"In America, the synagogue is the center of the Jewish experience. Here, you're
living in a Jewish lifestyle," Fass said.

Like the Robinowitzes, he and his family moved to Ramat Beit Shemesh, a new
development sprouting up on a hill in central Israel, about a 45-minute drive
west of Jerusalem.

Though Fass, 29, had visited Israel several times before, the move has still
required adjustments.

His oldest child, Elchanan, 7, is getting used to the Israeli-style grammar
school. It's a small school without the ranging athletic fields of a Boca
school. Kids bring their own soccer balls for recreation. And, of course, it's
in Hebrew.

"My son comes home some days and I say, 'Did you understand anything,' and he
says, 'Not a thing.' " Fass said. "But, when I ask how it was, he says, 'Great.'
"

Parents need to adjust to the schools, too. In Israel, there is much less
parent-teacher contact than in America, and the teachers are treated more
informally by the students, who usually refer to them by their first names.

"It's a very different culture," Fass said.

For the New Year holiday, like every year, all the little groceries offered gift
baskets. On Yom Kippur, the streets will be empty as even nonreligious Israeli
Jews forgo driving.

"Everywhere you go, it's Judaism," Fass said. His kids are noticing the straw
and wood huts being built at many private homes for the upcoming Sukkot harvest
festival. "They think every day is Sukkot."

larryk@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Photos by LARRY KAPLOW 1. Despite health, moving and
plumbing problems, Stanley and Rachel Robinowitz, formerly of Boca Raton, are
delighted to be living in Ramat Beit Shemesh, Israel.  2. Rabbi Yehoshua Fass
directs Nefesh B'Nefesh, which organizes immigration to Israel by North American
Jews. Fass, formerly of Boca Raton, made the move himself this summer.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              336 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 17, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

APPROVE MEXICAN IDS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 439 words


No change comes without a battle in Lake Worth, so any new idea involving
something as incendiary as immigration was sure to cause more than a stir.

Mayor Rodney Romano this month introduced an ordinance that would require city
offices to consider photo IDs issued by Mexican consulates as valid
identification. The city commission tentatively approved the proposal, and a
final vote is scheduled tonight. An unlikely collection of opponents has
mustered since the commission's preliminary action.

Residents have formed telephone and e-mail networks to argue that the ID cards
would promote illegal immigration in a city that already draws immigrants of all
kinds and cast the city in a disparaging light. Police Chief Bill Smith has
joined the opposition, saying he believes the city is usurping authority that
belongs to the state or federal government. The law would be the first of its
kind in Florida, and he worries about that. Chief Smith says his officers are
"not in a position to make decisions as to the authenticity or reliability of
documents issued by a foreign government."

While Lake Worth finds itself as an unlikely precedent-setter in the state, the
Mexican ID - called matricular consular - is widely used elsewhere in the United
States and has an excellent record. About 90 cities - including Chicago, Los
Angeles and Houston - have recognized the cards, and the Mexican government has
issued about 500,000 since the program began this year. Nationwide, about 800
police departments accept the IDs, and they have found them useful tools for
identification and also improving working relations with Mexican immigrants.

Police and other local officials already accept foreign-issued documents, such
as birth certificates and passports, and the reliability of the consular IDs is
at least comparable. The Mexican government has taken appropriate steps to
safeguard the validity of the cards, which show local addresses passports don't.

Much of the opposition to the IDs is based on misconception and paranoia. In
fact, the cards carry no benefits and do not change immigration status. They
simply are another device authorities can use to find out who a person is.
Cities that have tried them, like them. Orlando and Orange County are
considering ordinances, and West Palm Beach soon may follow. Mexicans make up
the fastest-growing immigrant group in Palm Beach County.

State Rep. Susan Bucher, D-Lantana, favors legislation that would recognize the
cards statewide. While that would be the ideal, nothing precludes Lake Worth
from embracing a good idea on its own and voting yes for the IDs tonight.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              337 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 18, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

GREEN CARD LOTTERY IS AROUND THE CORNER

BYLINE: Antti Mansikkamaki

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 8, Finnish Focus

LENGTH: 624 words


Last year, after the terrorist attacks, there was fear among immigrants and
seasonal residents that their lives would get harder because of government plans
to tighten border controls and make acquiring documents such as a driver license
subject to immigration status verification.

I've met several snowbirds who have returned and it seems that some of the fears
were premature. The accounts I've heard so far indicate that tighter control has
not overpowered common sense, and officials have been considerate at the ports
of entry.

For foreign snowbirds and others who would like to become permanent residents of
the United States, they have an option in the Diversity Visa Lottery Program,
commonly known as the green card lottery.

Each year, 50,000 immigrant visas are made available through a lottery to people
who come from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States.
Finns qualify.

Anyone who is selected by the lottery will be given the opportunity to apply for
permanent residency. If permanent residency is granted, the individual will be
authorized to live and work permanently in the United States. It also allows
lottery winners to bring their spouses and unmarried children under the age of
21.

I want to give you a word of warning and some advice based on my personal
experience. First of all, you don't have to pay to enter the lottery.

Before I moved to the United States, I tried my luck a couple of times, and
found out that there were people, including myself, paying various sums of money
to companies and law offices that promised improved odds if one enters the
lottery through them.

Don't do that. The green card lottery is free. The U.S. Immigration &
Naturalization Service accepts entries year-round.

This year, the lottery runs from Monday, Oct. 7 through Thursday, Nov. 7. Early
submission helps guarantee efficient and timely processing of your application.

You can type the application form yourself. Complete instructions can be found
online (http://travel.state.gov/DV2004.html). You can apply online or download
the entry form at www.usais.org. Make sure to visit these sites before entering.

Finns and other Europeans should mail their entries to:

DV Program, Kentucky Consular Center, 3003 Visa Crest, Migrate, Ky. 41903-3000,
U.S.A.

For those of us Finnish nationals who are U.S. citizens or are planning to apply
for U.S. citizenship, another opportunity might become available later this
year.

Next month, the Finnish parliament will consider a proposed bill allowing
multiple citizenships for Finnish nationals. If the bill is passed, it is
expected to be in force next summer. Currently, Finnish citizens who become
citizens somewhere else lose their Finnish citizenship.

According to a statement by Finland's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the law also
would allow Finns who have lost their native citizenship because they became
citizens of another country to regain their Finnish citizenship without
complicated procedures if they take action in a timely manner.

Such a law probably would make the number of Finnish citizens living outside
Finland skyrocket, and also make foreign nationals living in Finland more eager
to apply for Finnish citizenship.

One thing seasonal residents are concerned about is the new driver license law,
which forces them to wait in line and pay $15 to renew their license every time
they enter the country. Gov. Bush ordered earlier this year that non-citizens'
driver licenses will expire when their stay in the U.S. is up.

Antti Mansikkamaki writes about the Finnish community for Neighborhood Post.
Send mail to 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL. 33405. Call 820-4763,
fax 837-8320.

neighborhood@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lake Worth / LantanaManalapan and South Palm Beach

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              338 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 19, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN STUDENT TRACKING SYSTEM MAY MISS DEADLINE

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A computerized system for tracking foreign students at colleges and trade
schools may not be fully operating by its Jan. 30 deadline, federal officials
warned Wednesday.

Janis Sposato, deputy commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, told a House Judiciary subcommittee that her agency had made
"considerable progress" on the Internet-based system to monitor more than
500,000 foreigners who study in the United States each year.

However, she conceded that the INS was still struggling to write regulations for
the program. She also said it is uncertain whether inspectors could visit all of
the participating schools to verify that they are legitimate educational
institutions.

Congress ordered the agency to set up the $37 million monitoring system after it
was discovered that three of the Sept. 11 hijackers had obtained student visas.
Two had visas for pilot training and a third for English language classes.

The tracking system, known as Student and Exchange Visitor Information System,
requires schools to enter information about each foreign student and notify the
government if one fails to appear for classes.

Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine raised doubts about how
complete the new system will be. "We continue to believe that full
implementation is unlikely by Jan. 30, 2003," he said.

juliam@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              339 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 20, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

SECURITY SCAPEGOATS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 379 words


Federal agents simultaneously swept through South Florida's three major airports
this month and arrested 29 custodial workers, nearly all of them Hispanics, on
charges of falsifying immigration documents and Social Security numbers on job
applications.

At Palm Beach International Airport, Border Patrol agents put 14 workers in
handcuffs and marched them to the Palm Beach County Jail. At Fort Lauderdale and
Miami airports, agents arrested and jailed 15. Those witnessing the scene had
reason to assume the government had struck a mighty blow against dangerous
terrorists. In fact, the offenders were hard-working immigrants who took
difficult, menial jobs no one else wanted. They mopped restrooms, dumped trash
and swept hallways.

Because some of them cleaned airplanes and had access to restricted areas, their
arrests raised questions about how the airports screen employees. If these
workers found it this easy to get clearance, couldn't real terrorists do it,
too? All the money spent on upgrading security with new equipment, personnel and
procedures means little if there is no safeguard against a lie that opens doors
to sensitive places. Airport officials have to do better at checking the
backgrounds of employees to prevent penetration of the system from within.

The arrests also expose our national failure to deal with immigration issues
without hypocrisy. Americans still depend on immigrant workers - most of them
Hispanics - to fill the bottom rungs on the economic ladder. Lawmakers decry the
presence of illegals while depending on them to make the beds in their hotel
rooms, mow their lawns and pick the tomatoes for their salads. The nation
continues to send a mixed message to foreigners: We do not want you to come here
illegally, yet if you do, there's a job waiting for you. The government needs to
establish legal routes for workers to cross the border, and employers must
participate in the system instead of circumventing it.

The airport sweeps signaled a warning for security officials, who should have
tightened internal access months ago. But the perp walks for janitors were
overkill. The wrong immigrants were scapegoats again. The arrests didn't make
flying safer. Using the airport restrooms got a little more dangerous.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              340 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 26, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

LAKE WORTH OUT OF STEP ON IMMIGRANT ID CARDS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 383 words


Last week, Lake Worth rejected progressive change by turning down a proposal to
recognize identification cards issued by the Mexican government. The city
commission's 3-1 vote satisfied residents who complained that the cards
encourage illegal immigration and make police work more difficult.

The experience of about 90 cities that do recognize the cards indicates just the
opposite. They have found that the Mexican ID - called matricula consular - is a
valuable tool in preventing crimes and improving relationships with immigrants.
As Lake Worth was voting no, other governments were approving the cards or
moving to expand their use. In DeKalb County, Ga., east of Atlanta,
commissioners voted 6-1 for recognition. The Chicago City Council approved the
cards in June and expects soon to expand the law to include IDs issued by other
governments, among them Guatemala, the Philippines, Uruguay, Brazil and
Honduras. In Orlando, Orange County commissioners are leaning toward approval.

Unlike their counterparts in Lake Worth, politicians in places as diverse as
DeKalb, Chicago, Los Angeles and Houston looked past anti-immigrant sentiment
and focused on facts. Contrary to opponents' assertions, the Mexican IDs carry
no benefits and do not change immigration status. They are, however, a reliable
means of verifying identities. This is good for homeland security and also for
business.

In April, SunTrust Banks began accepting the cards to allow Mexican nationals to
open accounts in Florida and five other states. "We determined there was a
business opportunity to meet a definite customer need," said Hugh Suhr, a
company spokesman. The response is growing with the cards' popularity; Mexico
has issued about 500,000 cards this year and struggles to keep up with demand.
Immigrants are putting their money in banks instead of carrying it and becoming
targets for crime. Law-enforcement officials like that and also find that
immigrants who can document their identities are more comfortable assisting
police.

Mexicans make up Florida's fastest-growing and most amorphous demographic group.
The IDs are a proven way to improve accounting and relations problems. Palm
Beach County should recognize the cards now, and in 2003. the Legislature should
make the recognition statewide.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              341 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 17, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

MOST SALIENT QUESTIONS ON IMMIGRATION NOT ASKED

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 148 words


In response to Saturday's editorial "End 'inhumane' policy" and Dan Moffett's
column Friday, "Next time, bring your fastball": A few questions I thought were
crucial to the Haitian asylum issue never were brought up. One is that last
year, of the 4,348 Haitian asylum-seekers, how many were released on parole in
the United States pending a hearing on their case? And, very important, how many
even show up for their asylum hearings?

Also - why is the approval rate for cases decided so low, at 12.3 percent (357
in 2001)? Does this percentage reflect a problem with fraudulent asylum claims?
How many Haitians really are seeking economic asylum and not what some are
falsely claiming, political asylum? Wouldn't a restrictive asylum policy be more
humane if it resulted in fewer refugees dying by making long and dangerous trips
in old leaking boats?

JAMES LANE

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              342 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 25, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

ENCOURAGE USE OF ENGLISH; DON'T CATER TO IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 138 words


I think it is a shame when governor of Florida has to conduct an American
political rally in a foreign language ("Bush delights Cuban voters with his
Spanish," Oct. 12).

This is America; the primary language of this nation is English. Many immigrants
come here, either legally or illegally, and expect Americans to cater to their
language whims because they refuse to learn and speak our language. They want
bilingual or trilingual signs and voting instructions. A basic citizenship
requirement is to be able to read, write, speak and comprehend English.

Anyone who refuses to meet those requirements should seriously consider
returning to his or her country of origin. Please do not expect me to learn a
foreign language in my own country or provide you information in your language.

BILL HOWINGTON

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LSTTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              343 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 26, 2002 Saturday FINAL EDITION

COURTS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 263 words


WEST PALM BEACH - A Palm Beach County Court judge Thursday refused to send
Catherine Bradley to jail but ordered the "cat lady" on a supervised release
program to ensure that she stops feeding feral cats in Palm Beach. Bradley, 57,
was arrested Oct. 16 on felony trespassing charges after feeding cats at a
private construction site. Bradley promised not to violate any laws unless a
higher court gives her permission, said David Roth, her Palm Beach attorney, on
Friday. Her court appearance was to establish whether her latest arrest violates
the conditions stemming from more than a dozen misdemeanor arrests and about 40
citations on similar charges. Bradley will have to check in with court
authorities twice a month. Bradley used to lead the Palm Beach Cat Rescue &
Humane Society before city attorneys began enforcing a town law prohibiting
feral-cat colonies this year.

WEST PALM BEACH - Two men pleaded guilty in federal court on Friday to
attempting to smuggle illegal immigrants into Florida on separate boats. Yvan
Charles, 46, of Haiti admitted to piloting a sailboat with 36 illegal Dominican
immigrants aboard. Charles was arrested Aug. 20 off the Boca Raton coast when he
and two of the immigrants went to buy food for the passengers. In a separate
incident, Steveson Saunders, 48, of the Bahamas tried to smuggle in five illegal
immigrants from Jamaica, Guyana, Haiti and Cuba. He was arrested after a
fisherman spotted his small boat drifting off of the Lake Worth coast Aug. 22
and alerted the Coast Guard. Both men face 10-year prison sentences.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              344 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 28, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

SEND WELCOME, NOT COFFIN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 426 words


Authorities in Denison, Iowa, found 11 Mexican immigrants dead in a rail car
this month, and the American heartland got a close look at the grim consequences
of a failed border policy that Southwest states know too well for its
shortcomings.

Last year, about 300 Mexican and Central American migrants died in the deserts
of Arizona, Texas and California. Technically, they died from the heat, the
elements or at the hands of ruthless smugglers, but a dysfunctional immigration
system bears some responsibility. The United States continues to send a mixed
message to its southern neighbors: The government says don't come, but employers
promise jobs for those who do.

The overwhelming majority of Mexicans who cross the border illegally come here
to work, and they make mighty contributions to the economy, filling positions
that otherwise would go unfilled. Iowans rely on illegal Mexican labor in farm
fields, factories and meat-packing plants. Two years ago, Gov. Tom Vilsack began
a program to recruit immigrants to bolster sagging populations in rural parts of
the state.

Iowa says please come, but the U.S. government says don't dare, and the mixed
signals grow only deadlier. The Bush administration has responded to terrorist
fears in the wake of Sept. 11 by reinforcing border patrols, driving migrants to
more dangerous routes but doing little to advance national security. President
Bush and Mexico President Vicente Fox held promising meetings early in 2001 on
establishing a guest worker program that would enable Mexicans to enter the
country legally, work and then return home. Mr. Fox correctly argues that
agreements to legalize and offer temporary employment visas to Mexicans would
improve U.S. security and reduce illegal crossings. New technology and new
understanding of past mistakes could make a guest worker program feasible. But
anti-immigrant politics and the misguided anti-terrorist war plan continue to
make casualties of Mexican workers.

President Bush and President Fox met Saturday at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, and border policy again was on the
table. Mr. Fox is fending off opposition party attacks that he has failed to
deliver on an immigration deal, and he badly needs U.S. support to carry out his
reform agenda. His priorities includes a crackdown on the sort of corruption
that has let drug smuggling to this country thrive. President Bush should listen
carefully to a progressive ally who can help him tighten security, stimulate the
economy and save lives.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              345 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 1, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

GIULIANI BOLSTERS BUSH BUSH, MCBRIDE TRADE BARBS ON HAITIANS

BYLINE: By MARC CAPUTO and BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


When a group of Jewish immigrants needed help in 1985, businessman Jeb Bush
picked up the telephone, used a family connection in the White House and helped
solve the problem.

Bush recalled the story to a group of Orthodox Jews on Thursday, just a day
after Haitian leaders and Democrats demanded the governor again use his White
House clout.

This time, they want Bush to call on his brother, the president, to demand that
more than 200 Haitians detained near Miami be freed after washing ashore
Tuesday.

But the governor isn't dialing.

Bush said he's spoken "in the past" with President Bush about the
administration's year-old policy requiring uniquely long detention periods for
Haitian immigrants. But, he said, he has only so much influence.

"I can't wave a magic wand," said Bush, who campaigned Thursday with former New
York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani in Delray Beach and Aventura.

Bush's challenger in Tuesday's election, Bill McBride, said Bush isn't doing
enough. McBride called the White House policy toward Haitian refugees "racist"
on Thursday and chastised the governor, saying he has a "hard heart" because he
will not fight to win their freedom from the Krome detention center.

In a quick reply, Bush accused the Tampa lawyer of playing last-minute politics
with the issue in a bid to eke out a victory.

Hours later, McBride shot back, saying the governor and his brother have been
willing to stand by and deny freedom-seeking Haitians the rights of every other
refugee who comes to America.

Haitian refugees became a surprise issue in the final days of the governor's
race when more than 200 desperate Haitians came ashore Tuesday near Key Biscayne
after eight days at sea aboard a rickety boat. Most were taken into custody.

The next day, prominent Democrats arranged a protest at a Bush campaign stop in
Liberty City, where the governor planned to tout the benefits of his education
reforms for blacks. Instead, he was met with protesters screaming, "Shame on
Bush." U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Miami, also implored him to call the president.

Rather than shy away from the issue Thursday, Bush seemed to call attention to
it just as the protests in Miami began to die down.

"I'm governor of a state that has a foreign policy by definition," Bush told the
congregation Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center.

"I believe it's important . . .to use my office to try to help when it's
appropriate," he said.

Bush said it was right to act 17 years ago when he called his father, then the
U.S. vice president, to use his influence to help Ethiopian Jews flee
persecution in Sudan to settle in Israel.

With Sept. 11 political hero Giuliani by his side, Bush pointed out that mass
migrations of illegal refugees are dangerous for America's borders, just as they
are for the immigrants themselves. He said he worried that Democrats are
politicizing the federal issue into the governor's race, while sending the wrong
message to Haitians who want to come here.

"It's close to shameful. . . . It's on the border," Bush said.

"I would prefer to have this discussion held at a lower decibel level outside of
the realm of the campaign where, apparently, the McBride campaign is trying to
use this to motivate a base of support that they've had a hard time motivating,"
Bush said later in the day at a campaign stop with police unions in St.
Petersburg.

Immigration authorities say most of the Haitians will probably be sent back to
the island home they fled, where the poverty is the worst in the Western
hemisphere.

Bush also dismissed the McBride campaign's criticism that he uses his political
connections when it suits him.

"There are a lot of other issues where my position is different than the
president's," he said. "But I can guarantee you that I have a lot more influence
on the White House and the administration than Bill McBride."

Bush said he believes Haitian refugees should not be kept in the detention
center. Instead, he says, they should be allowed to go free and seek an
administrative ruling as to whether they can stay in the country, just like
Cuban refugees.

But McBride, Meek and Haitian-American leaders argue that Bush should use his
influence with his brother to urge such a policy.

"This is something he could do if he really had it in his heart to do it," Meek
said.

Sitting before a bank of 10 television cameras at a campaign stop in Little
Haiti, McBride urged Haitian voters to go to the polls "so that your voice is
heard."

He told them that the refugee issue is "a matter of fairness, which is something
this governor time and time again proves he is incapable of."

Outraged Haitian-Americans shouted "No more Bush" Thursday during the rally.

Riding a passenger bus with scores of Haitian workers represented by the Service
Employees International Union, McBride listened to chants and impromptu songs as
a woman tapped a tambourine.

Sung in French Creole, one song repeated lyrics saying that they will never go
back to Haiti, and if forced to go back, they would return "because America is
for everyone."

McBride seemed genuinely moved by the attention from the crowd. When the bus
pulled up to a North Miami precinct, hundreds of Haitians poured out of buses
and private cars to vote early. Many chanted McBride's name and his number on
the ballot, "15."

"Bush is not good," said an older woman in broken English. "We need someone who
cares about Haiti."

Meanwhile Bush's campaign is sending out a new brochure in North Florida showing
a picture of McBride with former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno suggesting
that the two support more gun control.

"But we shouldn't be surprised that Bill McBride thinks like Janet Reno," the ad
says. "After all, Bill McBride called Ronald Reagan 'a miserable president.' And
just last week McBride said Bill Clinton is 'my kind of president . . . he's my
kind of man.' Bill McBride likes to say 'judge me by my friends.' Is this the
kind of Governor we want?"

Reno has been campaigning hard for McBride, and Clinton is coming to South
Florida this weekend to campaign for the Democrat. Clinton will be in Miami-Dade
and Broward counties on Saturday.

Plans also are being made for Clinton to visit West Palm Beach's Curry Park in
front of the Martin Luther King memorial at 9 a.m. Sunday, but details are still
being worked out.

Bush's brother, the president, will be making his 12th visit to the Sunshine
State on Saturday, campaigning for the governor in Tampa.

marc_caputo@pbpost.com

brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W); 1. (C) TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer With former New
York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani cheering him on, Gov. Jeb Bush speaks to members
of a Delray Beach Police Department volunteer program Thursday.  2. (B&W) ALAN
DIAZ/The Associated Press Bill McBride gives 10-year-old Robert Cayard a hug
Thursday during a campaign stop in Miami's Little Haiti section.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              346 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 1, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

BISHOP ASSAILS FEDERAL POLICY ON HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By GARIOT LOUIMA and DANI DAVIES Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 626 words


Bishop Sean O'Malley, the newly appointed head of the Catholic Diocese of Palm
Beach, Thursday urged the United States to give Haitians the "same rights as
those who flee tyranny and oppression everywhere."

O'Malley added to a refrain from some political and civic leaders who have been
calling for the release of more than 200 Haitian refugees taken to Krome
Detention Center near Miami after arriving Tuesday on the shores of Key
Biscayne. The detention set off protests in Miami and a flurry of statements
from political and civic leaders who call current United States immigration
policies unfair.

While Cubans asylum seekers are released upon arrival, Haitian immigrants face
detention and, most often, forced repatriation without a hearing.

"We must be true to our ideals of providing an adequate aid program as a nation
of compassion and justice," said O'Malley, spiritual leader to more than 400,000
Catholics in Indian River, St. Lucie, Okeechobee, Martin and Palm Beach
counties. There are about 40,000 Haitians in the diocese, diocesan spokesman Sam
Barbaro said.

"For more than two hundred years, our country has been a beacon of hope and a
neighbor for countless generations of immigrants coming to its shores," said
O'Malley, who speaks Haitian Creole among other languages and once led the
Diocese of St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. "The Haitian refugees deserve the
same rights as those who flee tyranny and oppression everywhere."

Acknowledging that homeland security is important, O'Malley added, "immigration
policies must be thoroughly reviewed and changed in light of justice for the
suffering and poor from countries where there is so little hope. . . . We must
never forget that we are a nation of immigrants."

Local Haitian activists said Thursday they weren't surprised by the support they
received from O'Malley, who has spent his career as an advocate to the poor.

"What he says is true," said Robert Arrieux, executive director of the Haitian
Center for Family Services in West Palm Beach. "We seem to forget our immigrant
status. The first Americans were the native Indians. From there, all other
groups migrated or immigrated to the United States. People are still coming to
America for the same reason our ancestors did."

Rallies are scheduled today in Miami and Saturday in West Palm Beach. Haitian
voters plan to gather Saturday at Palm Beach County's election headquarters.
Also Saturday, protesters will rally at 4 p.m. in front of the federal
government building in West Palm Beach.

"The bishop has been working with Haitian refugees, so he knows exactly their
plight," said Daniella Henry, executive director of the Haitian American
Community Center in Delray Beach.

Henry spoke briefly to Gov. Jeb Bush, who stopped Thursday in Delray Beach with
former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani to campaign and show appreciation for the
police department's volunteer Homefront Security program. Several Haitian
community activists attended the event at the Crest Theatre but did not
demonstrate outside, instead opting to try to talk to Bush.

"We talked to him. He listened to us. He said he would do what he can. Maybe he
wouldn't have listened if we had been shouting," she said.

Henry said she is hoping to have another conversation with Bush aired on Haitian
radio before the election.

In a news conference after the event, Bush expressed sympathy for the plight of
the Haitian refugees but said their handling is a federal, not a state issue.

Haitian businessman Rony Blanc said he was disappointed Bush didn't address the
issue of the refugees during his speech.

"I feel that he wasn't so caring about our tragedy," Blanc said. "He didn't
mention anything about it."

gariot_louima@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              347 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 5, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

MARCHERS DEMAND RELEASE OF HAITIAN REFUGEES DURING INS PROTEST

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Several hundred Haitians and their supporters marched through Little Haiti
Monday to the headquarters of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
demanding the release of some 235 Haitian refugees who have been in INS custody
since last week.

The detained Haitians came ashore near Key Biscayne Oct. 29 after jumping from
an overcrowded wooden boat in the full view of television cameras.

Unlike Cubans, who in almost all cases are released and granted political asylum
when they reach the United States mainland, the captured Haitians face forced
repatriation to their impoverished country.

Their detention has become an issue in the closing days of the gubernatorial
campaign, with many South Florida Haitians, most of them Democrats, accusing
Republican Gov. Jeb Bush of not supporting their demands for equal treatment.

Many of the marchers Monday carried placards for Bill McBride, Bush's Democratic
opponent.

Bob Skaggs, 48, of Miami Beach, carried a placard stating, "I am ashamed of my
racist government."

"We need to get Jeb Bush out of there," said Ketley Joachim, 40, of Miami.

"These are people afraid for their lives in Haiti. They wouldn't put their
children on those dangerous boats if they weren't at the end of their rope. We
need somebody in government who will help us."

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              348 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 5, 2002 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

EPISCOPAL BISHOP SLAMS TREATMENT OF HAITIANS

BYLINE: By SONJA ISGER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 408 words


The Cuban-born bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Southeast Florida has added
his voice to a chorus of spiritual leaders decrying the treatment of more than
200 Haitian refugees jailed after coming ashore last Tuesday in Miami.

"When I arrived in this country from Cuba in 1960, I believed - and I still
believe - that the United States is a nation dedicated to liberty and justice,"
Rev. Leo Frade said in a statement issued Monday. "What is happening to the
Haitians who are asking for asylum here is unworthy of us as a people whose own
Declaration of Independence proclaims that 'all men are created equal.' "

Frade, who presides over Episcopal churches with 35,000 members from Key West
north to Jensen Beach and west to Clewiston, is the second high-ranking South
Florida church official to speak out since the refugees poured onto Miami's
shores last week.

Last week, Bishop Sean O'Malley, the newly appointed head of the Catholic
Diocese of Palm Beach, urged the United States to give Haitians the "same rights
as those who flee tyranny and oppression everywhere."

He echoed the sentiments voiced last month by Bishop Thomas Wenski, the
auxiliary bishop of Miami and chairman of the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops committee on migration. Wenski denounced U.S. detention policies last
month before a U.S. Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

Specifically, these church leaders and others want the INS to rescind the 2001
directive that changed the way Haitians arriving by boat are treated. The
directive instructed field offices that no Haitian should be paroled without
Washington's approval, according to congressional testimony in October.

The policy was intended to discourage Haitian immigration by sea. Instead,
critics say, Haitians have languished in jail, without proper representation and
under conditions refugees from other countries are spared.

The critics say the policy violates U.S. law and discriminates because the
policy applies only to Haitian asylum seekers.

Frade, who left Cuba to attend college and seminary in the United States and
never returned, said Monday that he was heartened that both of Florida's
gubernatorial candidates have said they favor a policy that treats all
asylum-seekers equally.

Said Frade: "I believe we are obligated as Americans, of whatever faith, or no
faith, to treat with respect and fairness everyone who comes to our shores."

sonja_isger@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              349 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 8, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

MEEK RIGHT TO ASK BUSH TO INTERCEDE ON POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 97 words


The Oct. 31 Post shows U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Miami, confronting Gov. Bush
over the Haitian refugee mess ("Political storm builds"). I agree that U.S.
immigration law is biased and that it should be the same for Haitian and Cubans.

No one should be allowed in illegally. We are at war with terrorism, and this
incident last week only proves that we cannot protect our borders. That boat
could have had 200 terrorists on it who would have been much smarter. The people
here who knew about this boat coming in also should be held responsible.

PATRICIA A. LEE

Greenacres

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              350 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 13, 2002 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS' EMIGRATION JUST A SYMPTOM OF BAD POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 190 words


The arrival of the 200 Haitians off Miami Oct. 30 and reports that other
Haitians are constructing boats highlights the shortsightedness of U.S.
policies. The Coast Guard is underfinanced. If a small wooden boat could reach
Miami, it would be simple for determined terrorists to reach our shores.

The Haitian community is correct in charging that U.S. immigration policies are
discriminatory - they need to be overhauled. The Cuban preference is an
anachronism of the failed U.S. Cuban policy. Immigration and asylum growth are a
threat to our democracy and environment. The United States cannot adequately
cope with its existing population. Cities, roads and schools are overcrowded. We
need a moratorium and a fresh examination of immigration policies.

The most detrimental policy of the Bush administration is its refusal to finance
the United Nations population programs. The increased legal and illegal
immigration to the U.S. is driven mostly by overpopulation of poor countries.
The U.S. can help the developing world to a better life by aiding those
countries in limiting their growth.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              351 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 14, 2002 Thursday FINAL EDITION

INS FINGERPRINTING SHOULD EXTEND TO SAUDIS, TOO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 182 words


My attention was drawn to a news item in the Nov. 7 Post that clearly does not
bode well for American foreign policy vis-a-vis Muslim countries ("U.S.
immigrant sign-up boosted for 5 countries"). In fact, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's decision to fingerprint citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya,
Sudan and Syria on arrival at U.S. ports is discriminatory and is based on poor
judgment.

Yes, it's true that there is credible evidence to suggest that elements opposed
to Islamic moderation are hiding in the above countries, but if memory serves me
correctly, all but four of those murderous hijackers of Sept. 11 were from Saudi
Arabia, a key U.S. ally. Then why exempt Saudi Arabia?

Such hypocrisy reinforces the belief among secularists like me that central to
U.S. foreign policy is protection of the ruling elite of Saudi Arabia, who are
totally oblivious to democratic norms and practices. This position breeds
resentment among moderates who are inclined to shift to extreme political goals
that are neither rational nor acceptable.

SHAHEEN HUSSAIN

Port St. Lucie

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              352 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               November 29, 2002 Friday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRANT SPINS LUCK OF HER IRISH INTO VOLUNTEERISM

BYLINE: By WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE


Marina Feeney never thought her day would come. When it did she couldn't hold
back the tears.

The 39-year-old Port St. Lucie police volunteer found herself sobbing on the
shoulder of a shocked federal examiner in a Miami office on Oct. 27, the day she
became a U.S. citizen.

"It was finally here after all these years," Feeney recalled. "I was just so
happy."

Feeney was 21 when she came to America from Belfast, Northern Ireland. Her
family owned a restaurant in Belfast that served fish and chips and homemade ice
cream, but it was fire-bombed because of "The Troubles," the name given to acts
of terrorism in a country rife with political and religious turmoil. The Feeneys
sought a different life in the United States and settled in South Florida.

Marina and her husband, Tony, yearned to be citizens, but the wait seemed
endless. An unscrupulous lawyer promised to help but disappeared with their
money. As their time in the U.S. grew short, the two filed for refugee status in
Canada, where they lived for six years.

Then a little Irish luck finally came their way. The couple won the U.S.
immigration lottery, which put their application for citizenship on the fast
track. It was the answer to their prayers.

Feeney said her new country is a safe place to live and raise a child. Tony
works for a carpet store in Port St. Lucie.

She doesn't like to talk about the problems in her native land, partly because
she fears something could happen to the family members back home.

"There's peace here," Feeney said. "People don't know how lucky they are to be
born into this country."

Feeney has been a volunteer with the Port St. Lucie Police Department for nearly
a year, a surprising move for someone who was deathly afraid of law enforcement
for years.

"We didn't have a police service in Belfast to call because of all the problems
going on. Unless it was terrorism related, things like robberies, burglaries
were thought of as very minimal," Feeney said. "You didn't get the opportunity
to know the police there."

As a volunteer working for missing children, Feeney wouldn't make eye contact
with Port St. Lucie police officers until one day when she hesitantly stopped by
the police department. She was mystified at the friendly faces she encountered.

"I was afraid of them, but I realized these people are really great human
beings," Feeney said. "They really do go beyond the call of duty."

Members of the police department were so impressed with Feeney that they asked
her whether she would volunteer part-time. She started filing reports and making
copies and ended up helping investigators on criminal cases.

Her work ethic hasn't gone unnoticed.

"You have a person giving 40 hours a week and then volunteering for good causes
on the weekend," said Cmdr. Scott Bartal. "She's one in a million."

Feeney's favorite volunteer endeavor remains Blue Angels, which provides toys
for underprivileged children at Christmas time.

Feeney enjoys the police department so much that she has applied for a paid job
in the purchasing department.

"We know what kind of employee she would be and we want her here," Bartal said.

For her part, Feeney said she can't see herself ever leaving the police
department.

Feeney makes a difference, said police spokesman Chuck Johnson.

"She's a very dedicated, hard-working volunteer who is definitely an asset to
our organization," Johnson said. "Marina realizes what bad times truly are. She
appreciates what she has in this country, most likely more than those who were
born with those privileges."

Feeney said her motto is simple.

"The streets are really paved with gold. You just have to work for it," she
said. "You have every opportunity you can possibly fathom."

She said she hopes to pass this on to her 11-year-old son, Sean. "He doesn't
have a choice. He's going to college."

Will she and Tony write a book about the wild ride that landed her in
"Paradise?"

She's thought about it.

"This has been one heck of a yellow brick road to go down."

will_vash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer 'People don't know how
lucky they are to be born into this country,' says Marina Feeney, who has been a
volunteer with the Port St. Lucie Police Department for nearly a year.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              353 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 20, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

MEXICANS HERE LIKE TURKS THERE

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 735 words


It must be good old American hubris that often leads us to conclude that we are
the only nation with immigration problems, or that ours are worse than anyone
else's.

In fact, migration across borders is testing governments throughout the world.
Wars and ethnic oppression still drive some of the movement, but a larger share
is based on economics. People continue to leave poor countries for prosperous
ones, with the hope that employment and a higher standard of living await in the
new land.

Nearly everything the United States has encountered during the past decade in
dealing with the influx of Mexican workers, Germany has faced with the arrival
of Turks. Close to 3 million Turks live in Germany, the nation's largest single
immigrant community, which, as part of a total population of 82 million,
approximates the percentage of Mexican-born people in the United States.

The Turkish migration began in earnest in the 1960s when the German government
started a guest worker program to supply the unskilled labor that an industrial
economy needs in order to grow. Today, Turkish immigrants and German officials
complain about the same things as Mexican immigrants and U.S. officials. Turks
often are relegated to living in completely Turkish neighborhoods, with poor
housing, bad schools and little voice in government. Many Turks struggle to
learn German or don't speak it at all, and their children have a hard time
finding decent jobs. Few continue their education beyond high school.

Mexicans who come to America, at least, rarely are victims of religious
discrimination. Most are Catholics and fit into a Christian culture. Turks have
brought their Muslim faith to Germany and suffered for it, particularly since
9/11. Right-wing extremist groups, which Germany still struggles to suppress,
routinely target Turkish mosques.

State of mind governs the rate of any immigrant group's assimilation. The Cubans
who fled Fidel Castro's revolution and landed in Miami believed they would be
returning to Havana within a few years. It took a generation for the exile
community to realize that no homecoming was possible and to put down American
roots. A majority of Mexicans who cross the U.S. border intend to return home
after earning money for their families, surveys show, but not all of them make
it back.

Most of the Turks who went to Germany 30 years ago believed they would return to
Turkey someday, and they did little to integrate themselves into society. Most
of them wound up staying, and the consequences of their mistaken expectation
have resulted in a second generation that is ill-prepared to compete today in a
high-tech job market that requires skilled workers.

German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder tried to help business leaders recruit
foreign specialists by backing a landmark immigration law this year. The bill
sets immigration quotas according to the job market's needs and allows migrants
to come into the country if they can prove they have a job. There even is a
point system to evaluate immigrants and determine the length of their stays.

This week, however, Germany's supreme court struck down the law, ruling that the
parliament violated constitutional procedures in approving it. Mr. Schroeder's
party intends to reintroduce the bill next month, and the opposition is planning
to insist on stronger provisions requiring newcomers to integrate into the
society, study the culture and learn the language.

Americans have plenty of immigration experience of their own to learn from, but
what has happened to the Turks in Germany may be especially useful as the United
States and Mexico consider how to manage the flow of workers across their
border.

Clearly, immigrant groups who don't assimilate lose out over the long term. Had
the first waves of Turkish arrivals and the German government done better at
social integration decades ago, the emerging generation of Turks would have the
education needed to satisfy the nation's skilled-labor needs. Yet guest workers
are supposed to be just that - guests. When the term of their employment ends,
they should return home.

Temporary workers who become permanent residents and do not assimilate often
trap themselves and their children in circumstances more hopeless than those
they left in their homelands.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              354 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 30, 2002 Monday FINAL EDITION

RULE PUTS FOREIGN VISITORS IN DOUBLE JEOPARDY, ADVOCATES SAY

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 966 words


When male visitors from five Muslim countries followed the new rules and
reported to immigration offices in California this month, hundreds were
handcufffed and thrown behind bars.

Their names and numbers remain secret, like most of the government's
immigrant-related actions taken after the Sept. 11 attacks. But reaction to the
Bush administration's latest tactics has been very public.

The register-and-get-arrested policy has provoked an outcry among immigrant
advocacy groups. A federal class-action lawsuit filed Tuesday aims to prevent
further arrests, which seem certain to come if more people register as they are
being asked to do.

"This is very harsh," Amy Gottlieb of the American Friends Service Committee in
Newark, N.Y., said of the government's policies. "We're looking at the
criminalization of immigrants."

The registration policy gives visiting male foreigners 16 and over who entered
the country before the end of September no place to turn, Gottlieb said. If the
visitors report to immigration offices as required, they could be arrested and
deported; if they don't report, they could be arrested and deported for failing
to register.

Immigration lawyers and support groups are agonizing over the best advice to
give visitors who are in the United States without permanent legal standing but
who may be trying to obtain permanent residency status. They don't want visiting
foreigners to defy the rules, but they don't want their clients arrested either.

"It takes an average of eight hours for one person to register in Miami," said
one South Florida lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "The fight
against terrorism is being used to clamp down on immigrants."

People with employment visas, others who wish to join family members already
here, students and visitors on long-term travel visas must register, immigration
lawyers said.

The registration requirements apply to people from 20 countries, not just from
the five - Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria - bound by the Dec. 16 reporting
date that led to the recent arrests.

Jan. 10 is the registration deadline for males 16 and over from 13 countries:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

Feb. 21 is the registration deadline for men from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

The registration policy is phase two of the Bush administration's program to
locate and expel categorically anyone with apparent terrorist potential and to
shut the door to immigrants from countries, mostly Muslim, considered to be
breeding grounds for terrorism. Immigration lawyers said decisions are often
based solely on religion and country of origin.

"Our wives, children, even American citizens are afraid," said Sofian Abdelaziz
Mohammad, director of the American Muslim Association of North America.

"Women are afraid to call police even in domestic-violence cases. They don't
want to open the door to immigration," said Altaf Ali of Davie, executive
director of the Florida branch of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

"The economic impact is great because men are the sole breadwinners in many
families, and when men are detained, wives can't sustain the family," Ali said.

Ali urges that registration deadlines be extended. "They didn't give the
community enough time to prepare for this," he said. "This country is founded on
the principle of law and human rights for all Americans, not only some
Americans."

No one knows the number of people who registered and then were jailed in
California this month. Their identities have not been revealed either, but
immigrant advocacy groups estimate that as many as 700 people were arrested just
in Southern California.

Justice Department officials said an estimated 3,000 people from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria are subject to registration nationwide, according to The
Associated Press.

Phase one of the administration's immigrant policy centered on sweeping arrests
made in the months following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Most of the foreigners picked up in the past year or so were detained for
extensive periods before they were deported. Some were asked to operate as spies
for federal agencies, others were released on bond in the United States and some
remain in the nine immigrant detention centers around the country.

No one except the government knows the accurate total of foreigners detained,
the number deported, released into this country or still in immigration jails,
such as the Krome Service Processing Center almost 25 miles west of downtown
Miami.

"Some high-profile cases are still at Krome, a few," said Jack Wallace of the
Miami-based Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. "The government alleges they have
possible terrorism connections. But most of the Middle East and South Asian men
have nothing to do with terrorism."

One of the most unusual cases inside Krome's high barbed-wire fences concerned
Jordanian-born Khaled A. Al Oweisi, a 37-year-old college senior from Pembroke
Pines. Al Oweisi has three U.S.-born children and his brother is a U.S. citizen.

He was picked up in a sweep on Sept. 18, 2001, kept in solitary confinement at
Krome for 17 days. By Oct. 23, 2001, the FBI cleared him of any criminal or
terrorism-related activity, but he remained in Krome for months.

One of his lawyers called Al Oweisi "a poster boy for getting bond," but an
immigration judge ordered him deported to Jordan. He appealed but lost before
the immigration appellate board.

Al Oweisi then appealed to federal court in Atlanta. Federal judges this year
said Al Oweisi could continue his appeal but not from this country. His family
remains in South Florida while he awaits a court decision in Europe.

- lou_salome@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              355 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 16, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

MEXICO'S LOSS, U.S.'S LOSS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 388 words


Jorge Castaneda's tenure as Mexico's foreign minister effectively ended 15
months ago, when the United States declared war on terrorism and lost interest
in immigration negotiations with its southern neighbor.

Mr. Castaneda had pushed for a more liberal U.S. immigration policy and a more
open border. After 9/11, the Bush administration pushed for just the opposite.
Mexican President Vicente Fox had made migration issues and closer relations
with the United States the cornerstones of his reform-minded administration.
President Fox promised the Mexican people much, but President Bush has given him
little to deliver.

The obvious casualty of the disappointment was Mr. Castaneda. He resigned last
week with regrets that Mexico hadn't "been able to achieve faster and more
concrete results in migration." A liberal academic with degrees from Princeton
and the University of Paris, Mr. Castaneda projected an intellectual
sophistication that suggested Mexico might be ready to resolve long-standing
internal conflicts over how to approach the United States. In the 71 consecutive
years that the corruption-ridden Revolutionary Institutional Party ruled the
country before President Fox, the policy was to distrust Americans and identify
with Latin America. Mr. Castaneda invoked a new pro-American wisdom in which
Mexicans would try to negotiate with the United States and form partnerships.

Regressive forces in the Mexican government will celebrate Mr. Castaneda's
departure as vindication of the old ways. Isolation always is a bad idea when it
comes to neighbors, however, and the economic ties that reach across the border
have grown too deep in recent decades to ignore. Mr. Castaneda had the right
ideas but the wrong timing. He championed an immigration agenda at a moment in
U.S. history when immigration paranoia was peaking. President Bush has been
unable to look beyond the politics of crisis management and see the benefits in
striking a deal with Mexico to manage migration.

President Fox replaced Mr. Castaneda with Luis Ernesto Derbez, the Cabinet's
economic minister, a politically safe choice who comes with a nondescript
reputation. What Mexico can't afford to change is its resolve to engage the
United States. Preferably sooner rather than later, Americans will be smart
enough to listen.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              356 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 19, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

NEWCOMERS THINK LIKE OLDCOMERS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 775 words


For all the obvious reasons, immigrants always will be one of the most poorly
understood segments of the U.S. population.

But it is continually surprising to find out just how misunderstood.

A fascinating survey released last week debunks many of the tired stereotypes
too many Americans have about newcomers. It also provides some first-person
insight into what the lives of foreign-born residents have been like since 9/11.

The findings deserve particular attention because they come from a reliable
source and are the result of credible methodology - qualities that are hard to
find in studies of immigrants. The Public Agenda Foundation, a nonpartisan,
nonprofit group sponsored by the Carnegie Corp. of New York, questioned 1,002
foreign-born adults who came to live in the United States when they were at
least 5 years old. Each interview averaged 28 minutes. Interviewers spoke
English and Spanish, did not question legal status and assured respondents their
comments were confidential. Researchers tried hard to get straight answers.

Before beginning the survey, Public Agenda consulted with a cross section of
advocacy groups and experts on both sides of the issue - proponents of tighter
immigration policy and supporters of a more open policy. The approach was
even-handed.

Consider some of the myths and false assumptions that fell by the wayside:

Immigrants do not want to learn English.

Wrong. Nearly two out of three (65 percent) said the United States should expect
all immigrants who don't speak English to learn it. Eighty-seven percent said
speaking English was extremely important, and 63 percent said all public school
classes should be taught in English rather than native languages. Immigrants
believe they need the language to work; 85 percent said it's hard to get a good
job without being fluent.

Today's immigrants rely on social services to get by and don't have the strong
work ethic of previous generations.

Only 18 percent of those surveyed said they or any member of their family had
received food stamps. Eight in 10 said "a person has to work very hard in this
country to make it - nobody gives you anything for free." Sixty-two percent said
the United States needs them to do the jobs that native-born Americans can't or
won't do. Only 10 percent said they had received donations from charities or
churches. Seventy-three percent said it was extremely important to work and stay
off welfare.

Since 9/11, immigrants have experienced widespread abuses and discrimination.

They don't say so. Only 9 percent say that since Sept. 11 someone was "offensive
or rude" to them because of their immigrant status. Said one Pakistani
respondent: "I haven't faced anything negative directly, but I feel like I have
to give an explanation - 'Well, you know Pakistan, we're not the ones doing it.
We're the ones that are helping . . . ' "

Immigrants hate the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

False. A majority of respondents (57 percent) expressed a favorable view of the
INS, though most also expressed frustration with the bureaucratic obstacles and
paperwork. Only 15 percent found INS workers disrespectful, and just 6 percent
thought immigration laws were unfair.

Immigrants distrust the justice system and do not appreciate American values.

By wide majorities, respondents said the United States is better than their
native country when it comes to women's rights, a fair legal system and an
honest government. This is especially true among Mexican immigrants, 81 percent
of whom said they trusted the U.S. judicial system.

The main reasons immigrants seek U.S. citizenship are so they can qualify for
more government benefits or bring family members here.

Less than 37 percent listed these reasons among the most important. Seventy-six
percent said getting the right to vote was the main reason for citizenship, and
65 percent said they sought it to show a commitment and pride in being American.

The survey uncovered a deep appreciation for the nation that took them in.
Eighty percent said they considered the United States to be "a unique country
that stands for something special in the world."

"I owe the U.S. everything," said an Ethiopian man.

"I bless America. It gave me a life," said a Mexican woman.

The survey's most telling revelation is that, in their beliefs and aspirations,
today's immigrants differ little from the waves that arrived a century ago. They
crossed different oceans and borders to get here, but their ideas about America
are remarkably the same.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              357 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 26, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN LEADERS UNITE TO URGE WIDER ACCEPTANCE OF ID CARDS

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA NAVARRO CLIFTON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Mexican leaders from around South Florida met Saturday to discuss how to get
counties, cities and police agencies to accept their country's identification
card as a valid form of ID.

According to the Mexican Consulate, accepting the cards, known as matriculas
consular, would make life safer for illegal immigrants and help government
agencies identify people who often avoid authorities.

Issuance of the card does not affect a person's immigration status but can be
used to open bank accounts, obtain utility services and identify victims or
witnesses to crimes.

About 40 leaders, including local Mexican-American activist Henry Saldana and
state Rep. Susan Bucher, D-Lantana, represented Palm Beach County and the
Treasure Coast.

"It's a fact of life that they're here, and they bolster our economy doing work
no else wants to do," said Bucher, who is of Mexican descent. "I'm not saying I
condone illegal immigration, and this doesn't give them legal status.

"It's not a big deal."

But it was a big deal in Lake Worth in September when city commissioners soundly
rejected an ordinance that would have enabled the city's growing number of
Mexican residents to use the cards as proof of city residency.

"I can't make it easier for folks to reside in this country illegally," said
Lake Worth Commissioner Scott Maxwell, who led the charge against accepting the
cards. "I'm just trying to uphold the law."

To counter such attitudes, Bucher said she will support Saldana's effort to get
the cards accepted throughout Palm Beach County, including bringing the issue
back to Lake Worth. She said she is meeting with Sheriff Ed Bieluch next month
to help persuade him to recognize the cards as valid identification and will
help Saldana promote the issue in West Palm Beach as well.

The cards have not been approved by any government in Florida.

Saldana said the drive to get the cards recognized will give the disorganized
Mexican community an issue to rally around. The 2000 Census showed Mexicans have
surpassed Cubans and Puerto Ricans as the top Hispanic group in Palm Beach,
Martin and St. Lucie counties.

"I'd like to create one consulate-backed group," Saldana said. "Once it gets
passed by one government, then that will get the ball rolling."

The Consulate in Miami, which provides services for Mexicans from The Keys to
Orlando, issued 14,272 matriculas consular last year, up from the 8,439 issued
in 2001. The cards cost $28 and are valid for five years. Applicants must show a
Mexican birth certificate and a second form of identification, such as a driver
license.

Like Maxwell in Lake Worth, opponents of the cards say accepting them promotes
illegal immigration and makes it easier for illegal immigrants to stay in the
United States.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, a nonprofit group
that advocates stricter enforcement of immigration laws, is fighting the
acceptance of the ID cards around the country.

"These cards allow illegal aliens to tap dance around immigration laws," said
spokesman David Ray. "They're only needed by people who are here illegally."

In the last few months, counties and cities across the nation have wrestled with
the issue with mixed results. The matriculas consular are accepted in Chicago,
Los Angeles, Houston and most Southern California counties, but the city of New
York and cities in New Jersey, Connecticut and other Northeastern states have
rejected the cards, citing fear of terrorism and a deluge of illegal immigrants
into their communities.

But banks nationwide, recognizing the growing Mexican buying power, have begun
accepting the cards. Nationally, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and Washington
Mutual accept the cards as a primary form of identification to open an account.
In April, SunTrust also began accepting the cards locally.

Mexican Consulate employee Mario Garcia said his government simply wants to
encourage people to participate in their communities and prevent Mexicans from
obtaining illegal identification.

Local business owner Tony Charlez said the tightening of immigration laws after
the Sept. 11 attacks scared many in the Mexican community as well as other
Hispanic groups.

"They're worried but don't get involved," Charlez said. "They're tied up in
work, trying to make a living, raise kids. They don't have time for anything
else."

Charlez, a Mexican-American who owns Boynton Drywall of the Palm Beaches in
suburban Boynton Beach, said many of the subcontractors he works with hire
illegal immigrants to keep up with the booming construction business.

"Immigration is what keeps the economy moving," Charlez said. "That's why the
community is growing so fast."

alex_clifton@pbpost.com

%% Growing Mexican population


Location             2000      1990

Palm Beach County    30,099     15,228

Martin County        3,790     1,959

St. Lucie County      6,850     2,399

Florida              363,925   161,499

Source: U.S. Census %%

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. (Did not run Martin-St. Lucie.)Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              358 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

GOP LAWYER GETS TOP INS LEGAL SPOT

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. CROWLEY Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 132 words


Mark Wallace, the GOP lawyer who peered over Theresa LePore's shoulder during
the 2000 election recount, has been named general counsel of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Wallace, 35, a Miami native, worked for Gov. Jeb Bush during his 1994 and 1998
campaigns and was there to help Bush's older brother, George W., during the
election recount in Palm Beach County.

One of the founders of Miami's Liberty City Charter School, Wallace was general
counsel of the Federal Emergency Management Agency before moving to INS. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service is becoming part of the new Department of
Homeland Security.

Wallace will be the top lawyer overseeing customs and immigration under Homeland
Security Undersecretary Asa Hutchinson.

brian_crowley@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              359 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 1, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AGENCY TAKES NEW NAME

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 548 words


The agency that has been the nation's gatekeeper for the past 63 years gets a
new name today as it takes its place under the new Homeland Security Department.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service reemerges as the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services. Officials promised changes would be hardly
noticeable.

That's not necessarily a good thing, say attorneys for immigrants.

"We don't see this as offering up too many positive changes in the way services
are provided," said Marshall Fitz, a spokesman for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association in Washington.

The INS, created in 1940, is merging with 21 other federal agencies into the
Cabinet-level Homeland Security Department to guard against terrorist attacks.
It is the largest government reorganization since 1947, and includes shifting
170,000 employees from other areas of the federal bureaucracy to provide what
President Bush called "a united defense of our homeland."

Documents still valid

There will be no immediate changes in uniforms, badges or paperwork for the
agencies. However, INS employees were instructed to change their voice mail,
retire INS flags and remove pictures of Attorney General John Ashcroft.

The Secret Service, Coast Guard and some White House activities, such as
protecting cyberspace, also will fall under Tom Ridge's command in the new
department.

As for the INS, immigrants can continue to use INS applications and make money
orders for fees payable to either the INS or the Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services. INS offices, including the one in downtown West Palm
Beach, will see no changes, said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for the Miami
INS district office.

Green cards, work permits and other documents issued by INS are valid even
though the agency has a new name, she said.

A major change under study is combining the immigration, U.S. Customs and
Department of Agriculture inspections at airports to help speed most
international travelers through the checkpoints.

"The good thing about that is it allows us to focus our attention on individuals
of greater interest," INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said.

INS' functions split

The reorganization splits the old INS into two functions, service and
enforcement, each under separate bureaus of Homeland Security. INS investigators
who track smuggling and counterfeit document rings will be transferred to the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The Border Patrol, the uniformed law enforcement arm of the INS, will be
transferred to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection.

Some attorneys who represent immigrants said the government needs to explain how
the reorganization is going to improve the INS.

They were surprised Thursday when the INS increased a broad range of service
fees just 30 days after lowering the fees as part of the reorganization.

An application for citizenship, which cost $188 under the lowered price, is now
back up to $260. Those who paid the lower fees before Friday do not need to send
more money but any new applicants need to pay the higher fee, the INS said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

To reach the new immigration agency, call (800) 375-5283 or go to
www.immigration.gov.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              360 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       March 2, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

LETTERS, LYRICS ENLIVEN JEWISH IMMIGRATION BOOK

BYLINE: Scott Eyman Books Editor

SECTION: ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. 8J

LENGTH: 315 words


The recent vogue for books containing removable documents and artifacts strikes
me as a very entertaining wrinkle - I wish I'd had books like this when I was
first focusing on history as a subject. The latest is The Golden Land: The Story
of Jewish Immigration to America.

The various documents include a letter from George Washington assuring the Jews
of Newport that they would always be safe in America, a prayer book that crossed
the Atlantic in 1875, a poster of the Yiddish actor Boris Tomashefky, Irving
Berlin's handwritten lyrics for God Bless America, and so forth. All in all, a
vivid assemblage. Rabbi Joseph Telushkin's text is brief but apt.

Lucky Lindy . . .

Among the usual reissues comes We, Charles Lindbergh's first book.

We was the 1927 equivalent of an instant book, published just a few months after
Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic.

It's an odd book, showcasing Lindbergh's cold, Roman temperament: "On the
three-hundred-mile stretch of water between Cape Cod and Nova Scotia I passed
within view of numerous fishing vessels. The northern part of Nova Scotia
contained a number of storm areas and several times I flew through cloudbursts."

Lindbergh obviously had a horror of melodrama, but life ladled more than a full
portion onto his plate anyway. The Lyons edition is a facsimile reprint, clear
but in an antiquated type-face.

In the Pipeline . . .

Chaka Khan is writing her memoirs for Rodale. Tama Janowitz, who had a brief
vogue 15 years ago, has completed a new novel described as "Madame Bovary for
our times," which St. Martin's will publish. David Douglas Duncan will publish
an anthology of his work from the past 60 years through National Geographic. One
Life: A Photo Odyssey will be published this fall.

Quote Unquote . . .

"A simile must be as precise as a slide rule and as natural as the smell of
dill."

- Isaak Babel

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
BOOKS

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              361 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 13, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

SHERIFF FIRST IN FLORIDA TO ACCEPT MEXICAN ID

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA NAVARRO CLIFTON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Sheriff Ed Bieluch Wednesday became the first law enforcement chief in the state
to officially accept identification cards issued by the Mexican government.

The cards, known as matriculas consular, have sparked controversy across the
country. Although the cards do not affect a person's immigration status, those
who benefit most from the cards are illegal immigrants.

But law enforcement officials say the cards will make their jobs easier. Victims
and witnesses to crimes will come forward more readily if they know officers
won't ask for immigration papers.

"It's a plus for officer safety and for the community" sheriff's spokesman Paul
Miller said. "It will make the people who hold these cards feel safer."

Representatives from the Mexican Consulate in Miami met with Bieluch Wednesday,
leaving with a letter confirming that his office would accept the cards.

Local Mexican-American activist Henry Saldana, who attended the meeting, said he
was surprised that Bieluch made the decision so fast. The group had met with him
once before.

"I thought he might have more questions for this meeting," Saldana said.

There is no target date for deputies to begin accepting the cards. The sheriff's
office will start training deputies soon on how to verify the cards and the
consulate will send equipment to help deputies with verification. The machines
reveal information on the cards that is not visible to the naked eye.

"It's going to take a little bit of time to get deputies trained and get out the
necessary information," Miller said.

Opponents of the cards, which look like driver licenses, say they're a way to
give de facto amnesty to people who have no legal right to be in the country.

"The police are grasping for a false sense of security. Law enforcement has an
obligation to join the war on terrorism and report illegals to the immigration
service," said David Ray, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a group advocating tighter immigration controls.

Mexicans have surpassed Cubans and Puerto Ricans as the top Hispanic group in
Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties, the 2000 Census showed. Mexican
consular officials have been meeting with local government officials to accept
the matriculas as identification.

The Miami consulate, which provides services for Mexicans from The Keys to
Orlando, issued 14,272 matriculas last year, up from the 8,439 issued in 2001.
The cards cost $28 and are valid for five years. Applicants must show a Mexican
birth certificate and a second form of identification, such as a driver license.

alex_clifton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Photo courtesy of Mexican Foreign Affairs.  Law officials
say victims and witnesses will cooperate with cards such as this sample Mexican
ID.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              362 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 19, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

GOOD MOVE ON SECURITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 424 words


Palm Beach County deputies received a tool last week that could advance homeland
security. Sheriff Ed Bieluch decided to recognize identification cards issued by
the Mexican government.

Known as matriculars consular, the cards certify identities of Mexican
immigrants but don't affect immigration status. No privilege or government
benefits go to the holder. A foreigner without proper immigration paperwork
still is subject to deportation. But the cards can help to create a registry of
the state's fastest-growing population. Mexicans have passed Cubans and Puerto
Ricans as the top Hispanic group in Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties.
Mexican workers, legal and illegal, sustain the agriculture, service and
construction industries. The cards will help bring into the light people who
have worked and lived in the shadows.

During a period of war and terrorist threats, the country needs accurate
accounting of the foreign nationals within its borders. Local law-enforcement
officials must have a reliable way to identify immigrants without having to wait
days or weeks for federal immigration checks. More than 100 cities and 800
law-enforcement agencies nationwide already accept the Mexican IDs. Though many
South Florida chiefs remain skeptical, police who accept the cards say Mexican
immigrants are more cooperative when they have a way to prove their identities
without having to show federal documents. The IDs also enable corrections
authorities to identify criminals who should be in jail and keep them there.
Mistaken-identity releases become less likely.

Several major banks have begun accepting the cards. Immigrants who deposit their
money instead of carrying it or keeping it in their homes are less likely to
become crime victims. Unlike passports and many immigration documents, the cards
show local addresses, which police also find useful. The IDs cost $28 and are
valid for five years. The Mexican government requires a birth certificate and
second form of identification to get them. The photo cards are difficult to
counterfeit and digitally coded with information that the naked eye cannot read.
The consulate provides decoding equipment for agencies.

The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office is the first agency in Florida to
recognize the cards officially, but it won't be the last. Mexico has issued
about 1 million nationwide, and their track record is commendable. Immigration
opponents miss the point that the IDs could be as valuable to police officers as
they are to Mexican workers.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              363 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 8, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

THE NONCITIZEN HEROES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 390 words


Among the first American casualties of the Iraq war were soldiers who were not
American citizens.

Four marines from California died in separate incidents in the opening days of
combat. Lance Cpl. Jose Gutierrez, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, was
killed in a tank battle near Umm Qasr. Three Mexican nationals - Pfc. Francisco
Martinez Flores, Cpl. Jose Angel Garibay and Lance Cpl. Jesus Suarez del Solar -
also died on the front lines. About 36,000 noncitizens serve in the military,
which is roughly 9 percent Hispanic.

Many Latinos have been lured by the promise of expedited citizenship. Last
summer, President Bush signed an executive order offering fast-track processing
for green-card holders who enlist. The government prohibits noncitizen soldiers
from serving in intelligence, special operations or command positions. According
to The Washington Post, the Pentagon has disclosed the names of 89 U.S.
servicemen killed, seven missing and seven captured. Of those, eight of the
dead, two of the missing and two POWs were immigrants.

As in past wars, the significant role that immigrant soldiers play in Iraq goes
largely unrecognized. The nation overlooks immigrants' contributions in all
workplaces, including the battlefield. Foreign labor fills low-wage jobs that
make economic expansion possible. During the 1990s, about 13 million immigrants
entered the country, and 8 million of them found jobs, filling half the 16
million openings.

The importance of immigrants to the nation's economic security was apparent in
the prosecution of Tyson Foods on federal immigration conspiracy charges. The
government alleged that the company illegally recruited undocumented Latin
American workers to fill low-wage jobs in Tyson's poultry plants. Tyson employs
120,000 workers but loses 75 percent of them annually. A federal jury acquitted
Tyson and three of its managers; two other defendants accepted plea deals. More
conclusive than the verdict was the clear case for creating a federal guest
worker program that will open a legal path here for Mexican and Latin workers.

Cpl. Gutierrez and Cpl. Garibay will receive their U.S. citizenship
posthumously, and the government is expected to do the same for Cpl. Suarez and
Pfc. Martinez. Their sacrifice reminds all Americans how wrong the myths about
immigrants can be.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              364 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 22, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

FOLEY ONLY TRYING TO CLARIFY 14TH AMENDMENT'S INTENT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 160 words


In response to the April 10 letter "Foley's citizenship bill plainly
anti-immigrant": Rep. Mark Foley's proposed constitutional amendment would end
the current twisted interpretation of the 14th Amendment's citizenship clause,
which grants citizenship to anyone born on U.S. soil.

If the 14th Amendment's sponsors had intended this interpretation, it would not
have taken an act of Congress 50 years after ratification of the 14th Amendment
(1922) to grant birthright citizenship to American Indians. Such interpretation
also would be at odds with the policy of not granting birthright citizenship to
children of foreign diplomats even if they are born on U.S. soil. These two
examples clearly cannot be reconciled with the current interpretation of the
clause.

Far from being anti-immigrant, the amendment offered by Rep. Foley, R-West Palm
Beach, would promote the admirable goal of legal immigration into this country.

JEREMY KISSEL

Tequesta

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              365 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 25, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

COMMON COLOR, COMMON GROUND

BYLINE: Elisa Cramer

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 868 words


On the playground, in the cafeteria or while lined up in the elementary school
corridors, one child randomly would be dubbed "Shawn." Another would call out,
"Hey, Shawn!" and, before the child could respond, classmates would back away,
chanting, "Oooh! You're a Haitian!"

It was more than a stupid and childish game of cooties. Unchecked, it has
spawned frequent fights between South Florida's Palm Beach County's
African-American and Haitian-American students, and disdain and disregard for
Haitian immigrants by adults of all races. It's reflected in the way news
reporters describe Haitian refugees as being "rounded up" by immigration
officials after rickety freedom boats finally reach the area's South Florida's
shores. It is a contempt fueled by powerful political prejudice that grants
Cuban refugees asylum while detaining Haitian refugees as prisoners.

I did not know then, in elementary school, where Haiti was. I did not know that
its 5 million residents speak French Creole and are of skin tones and features
that look a lot like my family's. Undoubtedly, neither did the children who
started the taunts.

I later learned that Haiti was the first free black nation in the Western
Hemisphere, that a man named Toussaint L'Ouverture led the 1804 revolution that
freed the West Indian country from French rule. I discovered an appreciation for
vibrant, colorful Haitian artwork that belies the country's overwhelming poverty
and illiteracy. I read about and talked to professionals becoming their
company's first Haitian-American hires, service workers accepting minimum-wage
jobs while trying to buy homes here and support relatives in Haiti and grown
Creole-speakers determined to learn English. I admired their strong sense of
community, all-service centers such as the Haitian Community Alliance and
loyalty to Haitian-run businesses, radio and TV.

And I remain hopeful for Mr. Marc Sedione and others like him, willing to risk
their lives for freedoms we take for granted and, too often, act like no one
else deserves.

The 22-year-old is among one of thousands of Haitians living in Bahamian squalor
while desperately saving money to be able to pay exorbitant fees to illegal
South Florida-bound people smugglers. "Our dream is the U.S.A.," he told a Palm
Beach Post reporter. "It's like living in the desert and knowing that in the
distance is a pool of cool water where you can quench your thirst. You're
willing to die to get there."

Americans' strident efforts to deny others the promise we all have sought is
hypocritical and embarrassing. Like all prejudices, it's cloaked in anger - fear
- of losing economic wealth and political power - and born of ignorance.

A shared quest for opportunity, fairness and humanity should have driven
protesters to storm Gov. Jeb Bush's Oct. 31 campaign stop in Delray Beach, where
most of Palm Beach County's 28,000 census-counted Haitians live. Gov. Bush
appeared two days after 235 Haitian immigrants were forcibly detained when their
smugglers' wooden boat ran aground near Miami's Rickenbacker Causeway. Lacking
such solidarity from fellow Palm Beach County residents, Alliance leader
Daniella Henry and a few other Haitian activists quietly got a few quick minutes
with the governor. The Haitian refugees - unlike other such refugee groups -
remain detained under federal order until their asylum requests are considered.

It's especially disheartening when people of color, having been oppressed
themselves, become the oppressors. Ironically, African-American and
Haitian-American students were fighting so often that the nonprofit Toward A
More Perfect Union teamed with two other community groups to form the Teen
Summit. The six-week project included 24 students of both cultures, ages 11 to
17.

"My whole interest was to find common ground, so they could realize a lot of
their history was entwined and very parallel," said Mr. A.J. Parham, director of
the Haitian Center for Family Services' "Youth Between Worlds" program.

The kids watched such tolerance-teaching videos as A Place at the Table. They
toured the Amistad slave-ship exhibit together. They pledged to stop schoolmates
from picking on others. A second eight-week session will include Latin students
from the ASPIRA Youth and Community Against Violence group.

On Wednesday, the Palm Beach County School Board designated May "Haitian
Heritage Month," allowing Haitian students to celebrate their bicentennial Flag
Day with schoolwide activities. "The other students don't understand that. Why
do Haitians have to celebrate their Flag Day in the U.S.?" said Mr. Bito David,
a school district public affairs specialist and former chairman of the
district's Haitian Studies Task Force. "I wanted it so we can build the
students, so we can boost their self-esteem."

Hopefully, the events, like the Teen Summit, will lead to better understanding
and even friendships. "It started pretty tense," Mr. Parham said. "Now, they
just want to throw a party together. Now, they just want to play ball together."

At any age, acceptance can be just that simple.

Elisa Cramer is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. Her e-mail address
is elisa_cramer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2003

CORRECTION:

Because of a reporting error, an opinion column in The Palm Beach Post Friday
incorrectly said Haiti has 5 million residents. The country has an estimated 7.5
million residents. The column also incorrectly described Haitian military leader
Toussaint L'Ouverture's role in securing the country's independence from French
rule. In 1801, L'Ouverture declared independence, which was suppressed until a
successful 1804 revolution. The column appeared on Page 22A, the editorial page,
in the front section.

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              366 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 16, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

INTELLIGENCE LACKING

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 401 words


The Justice Department rounded up and questioned thousands of Arab and Muslim
immigrants in the weeks after the 9/11 attacks. Attorney General John Ashcroft
insisted that the nationwide sweep was necessary to obtain intelligence about
terrorist activity.

But a congressional study released last week concludes that the effort provided
little useful information and instead alienated ethnic groups whose cooperation
the government will need for years. The General Accounting Office found no
evidence of substantive intelligence value, just skepticism about the
administration's methods. "None of the law-enforcement officials with whom we
spoke could provide examples of investigative leads that resulted from the
project," the investigators wrote, and "more than half the law-enforcement
officers we spoke with expressed concerns about the quality of the questions
asked and the value of the responses obtained."

The Justice Department identified 7,602 names of foreigners for interviews but
apparently questioned only 3,216 of them. The government could not locate the
others or never bothered to try. The GAO said many immigrants did not believe
the interviews were truly voluntary and feared reprisals if they didn't
cooperate. Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Mich., one of the lawmakers who requested
the study, said, "The Justice Department cannot provide a shred of evidence that
these 7,000 interviews led to a single piece of useful information about
terrorist attacks on the United States."

At the time, many Americans accepted the infringement on civil liberties as an
unfortunate but necessary trade-off, given the terrorist threat. Now it looks
like a futile exercise in profiling and intimidation that wasted resources. It
is another example of how the nation too often scapegoats all immigrants. Last
month, a 5-4 ruling by the Supreme Court upheld the government's power to lock
up immigrants who face deportation because they have committed crimes, even when
they have served their sentences. A minor theft or drug-possession charge can
put a foreigner behind bars for months with no chance of bail.

Mr. Ashcroft's hard line is alienating law-abiding ethnic communities that could
be allies with anti-terrorist forces. Fighting terrorism with blanket roundups
and blanket detentions diminishes principles of individual liberties that
Al-Qaeda despises and that Americans hold sacred.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              367 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 18, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

COMING TO AMERICA: A PRIMER FOR COPING

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA NAVARRO CLIFTON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Visiting Disney World and South Beach wasn't enough to prepare Efraim Gamarra
and his family for the big move here. After 20 days as immigrants, they found
getting settled overwhelming.

"There were so many new things," said Gamarra, a native of Lima, Peru.
"Everything was so new and different."

Although the family learned some English in Peru, not understanding everything
around them was difficult, especially for Gamarra's 16-year-old daughter, Maria
Antonieta, and 13-year-old son, Efraim.

Gamarra and his wife needed help understanding such basics as enrolling their
children in school, getting driver licenses, renting a house and getting
utilities hooked up.

It was so much easier in Peru, and the stress of finding a good job and worrying
that he'd made the right decision for his family had taken a psychological toll
on him.

"We talked to our children a lot and we reassured each other," Gamarra said. "It
actually brought us much closer together as a family."

On his 21st day in America, Gamarra signed up for a monthlong program that
provides new immigrants with essential information for coping with life in the
United States.

It's called Renacer or Reborn: How to Live and Survive in the U.S.A. and is
sponsored by El Centro Cultural Latinoamericano in suburban Lake Worth.

Gamarra is one of about 50 participants who have completed the program since it
started in January. Every Friday night at Palm Beach Community College, new
immigrants hear from representatives of 30 agencies about the services they
provide.

During each three-hour class, they learn how health and court systems work, how
to pay taxes, apply for jobs and driver licenses, rent or buy a house and enroll
children in school. The program costs $45 for the month.

"We want to help people integrate into society," said Marta Pardo, the center's
executive director. "We want to make that transition and that integration go
more smoothly."

Most attendees college-educated

Lisa Green teaches English for Project Transition, a school district program
that assists immigrants who were professionals in their homelands. She attended
the program to see whether it would be useful to her clients.

"It was so rich with speakers and information," Green said. "I learned about
resources that as a native I didn't know existed."

Since the program started, Patricia Vega, the center's educational programs
director, has compiled data on participants and their attitudes about America.

Participants have been nearly equally divided between men and women. Most are
married and have children. Ninety-eight percent have a university education,
with 2 percent having earned a high school diploma in their native countries.

A majority of participants are Colombian, with Venezuelans, Argentines and
Peruvians following close behind. Participants mostly live in West Palm Beach or
Lake Worth and have relatives or friends living nearby.

Vega said the information she's collected will help the center adjust the
program to fit participants' needs. By the end of the year, Vega hopes to
produce a booklet.

Although El Centro Cultural Latinoamericano's focus in the past has been
promoting and supporting artistic endeavors such as cultural festivals and
traditional-dance classes, Vega wants to add services that will encourage
immigrants to go back to school, open businesses and pursue politics.

"Ultimately, families come here to improve their quality of life," Vega said.
"We offer them a ray of hope and knowledge to help take away the mentality that
Hispanics only come here to clean houses."

alex_clifton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W); GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer 1. (C) Erick Navas,
senior legal assistant for attorney Wayne Levine, gives advice on immigration
issues during a course for immigrants on how to live and survive in the United
States. The course, three hours on Friday nights at Palm Beach Community
College, is sponsored by El Centro Cultural Latinoamericano in suburban Lake
Worth.  2. (B&W) Martha Arenas of Colombia (left to right), Lina Uribe of
Colombia and Fernando Leiva of Honduras listen to a speaker on immigration
issues. Some 30 agencies send representatives to the course to explain their
services. An equal number of men and women participate.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              368 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 28, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

PRESS CHALLENGE TO SECRET DEPORTATION HEARINGS REJECTED

BYLINE: By EUNICE MOSCOSO Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a challenge to the Department of Justice's
policy of holding secret deportation hearings for foreigners who are of "special
interest" in terrorism investigations.

The court declined to review a lower court's ruling on the secret proceedings,
which began after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington.

The case was brought by two New Jersey newspapers that sued the government after
their reporters were denied docket information from deportation hearings in
Newark's Immigration Court. They argued that the government shouldn't be allowed
to keep the hearings secret without explaining why on a case-by-case basis.

The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in the case last year that the press
and the public do not have a First Amendment right of access to the deportation
hearings if the government has deemed them critical to terrorism investigations.
In those cases, national security concerns take precedence, the appeals court
said.

By declining to hear the case "without comment," the Supreme Court let the
ruling stand and handed the Bush administration a victory. The issue remains
unresolved at a national level, however, because a different Court of Appeals
has ruled against the secret hearings in a similar case.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the 3rd Circuit decision recognized that
open hearings would reveal sensitive information about ongoing terrorism
investigations and "aid terrorists targeting our nation."

"This authority to close hearings is an important, constitutional tool in this
time of war, when we face an unparalleled threat from covert and unknown foes
spread across the globe," he said in a written statement.

The Supreme Court has also favored the Bush administration's anti-terrorism
measures in other recent decisions.

This month, the court upheld the U.S. policy of holding hundreds of foreign
prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, without charges or access to lawyers. And in
March, the court decided not to hear a case brought on by civil liberties
lawyers who were challenging how the government monitors phone calls and e-mails
of terrorist suspects.

eunicem@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
SUPREME COURTRan all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              369 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 1, 2003 Sunday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SCRAMBLE TO STAY LEGAL

BYLINE: By JOHN PACENTI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: PALM SPRINGS


Arcides L. Ramos couldn't understand the document from the federal immigration
service informing him he needed to send $50 more before they could process his
paperwork.

Maria Reyes was afraid to go to immigration authorities, unsure she would
qualify to stay in the United States.

And Claudia and Neceali Garcia were just happy they didn't have to pay a lawyer
hundreds of dollars to remain in their adopted homeland.

These were among about the 200 Hondurans, as well as a few Nicaraguans, who
traveled to Christ Community Church Saturday to make sure they can remain in the
United States legally.

Immigrants from Honduras and Nicaragua have received temporary protective status
since Hurricane Mitch devastated their countries in 1998. Many of the immigrants
already were in the United States.

But, if they want to remain, they must reapply by July 3 or they will become
illegal and face deportation, according to Immigration and Naturalization
Service rules. The INS also has beefed up the requirements for immigrants to get
an 18-month extension.

That's where the Honduran consular general office comes in. The consular is
working with local immigration advocacy groups to help Hondurans and Nicaraguans
get their paperwork filled out for free.

Some lawyers and notaries have fleeced immigrants, charging them hundreds of
dollars, just to prepare the three-page application, said Carlos A. Siercke, the
consul general of Honduras based in Miami.

"We've had three calls today from people who have paid from $800 to $1,000 to
get this paperwork filled out," Siercke said. "They are taking advantage of
people who have a low education and probably people who don't know how to read,
especially English."

Siercke said his homeland counts on Hondurans working in the United States, who
send an estimated $1 billion back to their families each year.

Ramos, who lives in West Palm Beach, arrived at the church in a panic. He didn't
understand why the INS had not gotten back to him on his application.

He said he paid an attorney in Pompano Beach $370, but the INS needed $50 more
for a filing fee. As result, his application wasn't processed.

"This is very important," Sylvia Baez of the Nicaraguan Association said of
Saturday's event, which the consular hopes to duplicate in Tampa and
Jacksonville in the next few weeks.

"These people are paying taxes and they are doing jobs American people don't
want to do, such as picking vegetables," she said.

john_pacenti@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer OFFERING HELP: Maria
Antonia Guevara of the Honduran Community Center helps people with their
passports. Immigrants came to the Christ Community Church to get information
about legal matters.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              370 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 5, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

END ASHCROFT'S EXCESSES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 405 words


In the frenzied days after 9/11, Americans were willing to give the government
wide latitude to investigate and detain immigrants with possible links to the
terrorist attacks. The nation had to take aggressive measures to defend itself.

Yet the hope was that the crackdown would be temporary, judicious and targeted
against individuals the government had legitimate reason to suspect - not whole
groups of people it identified by ethnicity. This week, the Justice Department's
inspector general released a scathing report suggesting that Americans' trust in
their government was misplaced.

The internal review found a pattern of abuses and heavy-handed behavior in the
department's treatment of immigrants. The government detained 762 foreigners in
the months after 9/11 but failed to separate those with possible links to
terrorism from those who had overstayed visas or had other bureaucratic
violations. Only Zacarias Moussaoui, who was in custody before the attacks, has
been charged with terrorist crimes. The government has deported most of the
other foreigners, keeping some in custody as long as eight months. Many spent a
month or more in jail before knowing why they were being held. The report
criticized the FBI for unreasonable delays that could have cleared detainees.

The counterattack against Al-Qaeda became a war against immigrants. Conditions
of confinement were unduly harsh. Inmates were denied access to attorneys and
relatives. The 198-page report cited a "pattern of physical and verbal abuse"
that included 23-hour-a-day lockdowns in constantly lighted cells, with leg-iron
restraints and chains. At least 50 were confined at the Krome Service Processing
Center near Miami.

A Justice Department spokeswoman responded to the report with echoes of Attorney
General John Ashcroft's trademark self-righteousness. "We make no apologies for
finding every legal way possible," she said, "to protect the American public
from further terrorist attacks." In fact, Mr. Ashcroft's oppressive roundup did
not make Americans safer; it alienated immigrant communities whose cooperation
the government needs. Muslim and Arab men became targets of retaliatory tactics
because they were Muslim and Arab men.

It is the worst example of indiscriminate ethnic abuse since the Japanese
internment during World War II. If Mr. Ashcroft doesn't want to make apologies,
he at least should try to do a little better.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              371 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 7, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

ASHCROFT HIS OWN ENEMY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 285 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft on Thursday told Congress that the Justice
Department needs more power. If his agency really does, Mr. Ashcroft's prior
misuse of the power he already has is standing in the way of the authority he
covets.

Mr. Ashcroft has not yet understood that his heavy-handed detention policies are
not unfair just to the detainees. The damage extends to America's ability to
defend against terror attacks. The government's harsh, indefinite detention of
immigrants guilty only of visa violations drives underground people who
otherwise would cooperate with immigration and counter-terror officials.

And though Mr. Ashcroft insists that the detention of 762 foreigners has yielded
an intelligence bonanza, just one has been charged with a terrorist crime.
Agents spending their energy on non-threatening visa violators might get better
results with a more targeted, intelligent approach. Not only does the current
ham-handed policy look inefficient, its abuses - exposed by the department's own
inspector general - stoke the anti-American feelings that drive terrorism.

Mr. Ashcroft told Congress that some laws and punishments aimed at deterring
terrorism need to be revised and strengthened. "The law has several weaknesses
which terrorists could exploit," he warned.

He might be right. Legal needs are bound to become clearer as criminal and
financial investigators pick away at terrorism's structure. But Mr. Ashcroft's
indifference to civil and human rights, coupled with his inability to admit
mistakes, argues against giving the Justice Department more authority. He says
he'll use the power to fight terror, but Congress has to worry about what else
he'll use it for.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              372 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 June 10, 2003 Tuesday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

JIMENEZ SHOULD GO HOME, BUT DEBATE SHOULD START

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 398 words


An illegal Guatemalan immigrant who has run up more than $1 million in hospital
bills after an auto accident left him brain-damaged should be returned to his
native land for further treatment. But Martin Memorial Medical Center in Stuart,
which has been treating the man since a head-on crash in February 2000 left him
with the IQ of a 10-year-old, should work with the Guatemalan government and
doctors to complete a care plan before sending him home.

The case of Luis Alberto Jimenez has attracted national attention because it
highlights the problem of who is responsible for treating poor illegal
immigrants who need extensive health care. Federal programs don't cover
illegals, even though immigration is a federal issue. Martin Memorial has taken
Mr. Jimenez's case to court, asking Martin County Circuit Judge John Fennelly to
order him back to Guatemala.

Martin Memorial has met its moral and legal obligation to Mr. Jimenez. Federal
law requires hospitals to provide care for anyone with a life-threatening
condition, regardless of ability to pay or immigration status. Federal rules
also govern discharge conditions for such patients. Rules require that
health-care facilities such as Martin Memorial, which receives Medicare and
Medicaid money, discharge patients to a facility that can provide the next level
of appropriate care. An attorney for Mr. Jimenez's cousin by marriage, who also
is his court-appointed legal guardian, complained in court that both Martin
Memorial officials and Guatemalan health officials have failed to describe in
detail where Mr. Jimenez would be treated, specifying the facility, type of care
and doctors who would provide care if he is returned to his homeland. That's a
valid complaint, and the hospital should address it with a detailed care plan
for Mr. Jimenez, who is lucid enough to tell caregivers he wants to go home.

Answers for the larger problem of providing health care for illegals must come
from the federal government and from the companies that benefit from cheap
labor. Forcing local hospitals to absorb all the expenses is unfair and drives
up medical costs for everyone else. Businesses that use cheap labor should
provide health-care insurance for workers. Finally, government should seek ways
to help illegals already in the United States to reach legal status so they can
be included in health-care systems.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              373 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 11, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

HIRING CENTER FOR MIGRANTS FAILS TO LURE EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SMITH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


The idea seemed smart, even enlightened public policy: Instead of police or
immigration sweeps through a road where immigrants gather to find work, town
officials tried to find a central spot away from the residential neighborhood.

Without using tax dollars, town officials urged a nonprofit organization,
Corn-Maya Inc., to set up the hiring center at 500 Old Dixie Highway in late May
as part of its services to north county's growing Maya community from Guatemala
and Mexico.

Corn-Maya, using a $22,500 grant from the Community Foundation of Palm Beach and
Martin counties to pay a year's rent, opened the center in late May using an
all-volunteer staff.

So far, the hiring center has been a failure. Employers appear to not want
anything to do with it.

"We've had no problems attracting workers," said Corn-Maya board member Tim
Steigenga, who teaches political science at Florida Atlantic University's Wilkes
Honors College. "It's the businesses that don't want to admit they're picking up
the workers on the side of the road."

Hiring centers to serve the immigrant population and their employers have been
used successfully in larger cities nationwide, particularly in New York and
California, but this is the first local experiment that he knows of, Steigenga
said.

Steigenga is worried that it just might not work here.

One of his student interns took down telephone numbers from trucks and vans that
picked up workers at Center Street and the staff called employers to let them
know they could use the hiring center.

Companies responded warily. Some were even irate, Steigenga said.

"We're not doing anything other than providing a roof, a bathroom and running
water," he said. "We just want to take something that was already happening and
take it off the street."

The center has decided to scale back operations and will open only on Saturdays,
to see if might gain acceptance slowly, he said.

Since word of the center has spread, it has come under criticism.

Tim Rowe, general manager for a Jupiter landscaping company with 22 employees,
says the center is unfair to his business.

Rowe said his company uses legal workers, either U.S. citizens or immigrants
with valid work papers, and pays real wages and workers compensation premiums.
His company can't compete with others that hire illegal workers and pay them $30
or $35 a day, cash, under the table, he said.

"The thing that tipped it over in my mind, the town of Jupiter is not only
acquiescing to this activity but encouraging it. Now, you've crossed the line,
now you're creating an organizational structure for an activity that's illegal,"
Rowe said.

"If they didn't have this and people were just congregating on the street,
there's nothing I can do about it, but this is crossing the line," Rowe said.

The hiring center is akin to the town setting up an adult-supervised place for
under-aged teens to drink alcohol since kids will drink anyway, Rowe said.

The hiring center stems from town officials efforts to find a solution to
neighborhood complaints of sometimes up to 200 men gathering on a residential
street every morning to either find work or as a pick-up site for their regular
jobs.

The town council and administration officials have been working on the problem
for three years, with neighborhood residents complaining at council meetings
that something must be done. Assistant City Manager Andrew Lucasik, who has been
working with the group, could not be reached for comment.

Jupiter's Neighborhood Coordinator Julie Mitchell said the hiring center has so
far had little impact in reducing the size of the gatherings on Center Street
because of its intermittent hours.

Steigenga said there are some 2,000 Mayas in the Jupiter, Tequesta and Juno
Beach area. Some of the Maya have been in Jupiter for some 20 years, many of
them come from the same town in Guatemala, and are legal residents. They are
just as much of a part of the local community as anyone else but need help to
integrate.

"This is something we're doing on the behest of town officials to improve
relations between the community and the town. Our goal is not to stir up trouble
but to solve problems," Steigenga said.

stephanie_smith@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Jupiter/Tequesta

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              374 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 4, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

LOST IN A JAIL CELL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 594 words


The case of Sebastian Abrocio Hernandez - or more accurately, the lack of one -
serves as a disturbing reminder of how safety nets in the criminal justice
system don't always rescue vulnerable individuals from abuses of due process and
civil liberties.

Mr. Hernandez spent seven months in jail for no reason. For all but the final
days, he did not have an attorney or an understanding of why he was behind bars.
He has not been charged with a crime or ruled a threat to himself or society. He
is, however, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who speaks no English and has
little knowledge about the judicial system. In a nation that wants to use
millions of illegal migrants for their labor but ignore them in all other
matters, Mr. Hernandez, 37, is vulnerable by definition.

His problems began in November when he was a passenger in a car driven by
another Mexican, Euxodio Pedro Jose, 32, on a rural road west of Royal Palm
Beach. Jose ran a red light, causing an accident that killed another motorist.
Prosecutors considered Mr. Hernandez a witness, though he told police he was
sleeping when the crash occurred and could give them no useful information.
Assistant State Attorney Elizabeth Parker took the extraordinary step of asking
Circuit Judge Richard Oftedal in January to keep Mr. Hernandez in custody. Until
then, immigration officials had held him in Manatee County and were planning to
deport him.

Judge Oftedal, and then Circuit Judge Stephen Rapp who followed him, approved
orders to hold Mr. Hernandez in the Palm Beach County Jail as a witness in the
case against Jose. Nobody noticed or raised the point that he had no lawyer. Mr.
Hernandez's predicament came to light by accident. Recently, a Spanish-speaking
investigator from the public defender's office heard his story while visiting
the jail. Assistant Public Defender Steve Malone then filed a motion in Jose's
case to have Mr. Hernandez brought into court and receive a lawyer.

Last week, the court hastily summoned attorney Nellie King to represent Mr.
Hernandez, just as Jose was pleading guilty to several charges and being
sentenced to four years in prison. By the time Ms. King made it to court, the
interpreter had left and Mr. Hernandez still had no idea what was happening to
him. "He was in complete confusion," said Ms. King, who does not speak Spanish.
Judge Rapp ordered Mr. Hernandez turned over to immigration officials, who five
days later took him from jail and presumably are preparing to deport him home to
rejoin his wife and children at last.

Were it not for the intercession of Mr. Malone and the public defender's
interpreter, Mr. Hernandez might still be lost in a cell. A bureaucratic glitch
that needs fixing played a major role in denying him counsel and release sooner.
Because prosecutors took the highly unusual approach of designating him a
material witness instead of charging him with contempt or allowing his release,
he received no case number and got lost between the files and computer
databases. Attorneys on both sides who might have alerted the court about his
confused status did not. Potential self-interest clouds what may have been a
simple oversight.

Mexican immigrants are used to living here as an invisible population in the
shadows of democracy. A Finnish, Irish or Canadian immigrant would have had less
to overcome. As Ms. King points out: "This would not happen to a French au pair
working illegally in Palm Beach." The deplorable treatment of Mr. Hernandez is a
breakdown of justice that reflects badly on all involved.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              375 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                July 10, 2003 Thursday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BYLINE: By PAT MOORE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: STUART


Attorneys for a brain-damaged Guatemalan man filed an emergency request
Wednesday to keep the illegal immigrant at Martin Memorial Medical Center while
they appeal a judge's order to return him to his native land.

Luis Jimenez, 31, who has the mental capacity of a 10-year-old, has accumulated
more than $1 million in bills since he suffered brain injuries in a February
2000 crash in Martin County.

Circuit Judge John Fennelly last month ordered his return to Guatemala,
rejecting arguments from his attorneys, who fear he will not receive adequate
treatment in his native land.

Attorneys Michael Banks of Stuart and JoNel Newman of the Florida Legal Services
Migrant Farmworker Justice Project filed notice Wednesday appealing Fennelly's
ruling to the 4th District Court of Appeal.

"Once Mr. Jimenez is out of the country, we lose our rights to appeal," Banks
said.

He accused the hospital of failing to specify the type of facility or treatment
he would receive in Guatemala, but Guatemalan officials assured the judge that
Jimenez would receive proper care.

Banks said he does not believe Fennelly had the authority to order Jimenez
returned to Guatemala, noting that decision should be made by a federal court.

A Stuart doctor testified last month that Jimenez had improved and would benefit
from contact with his family.

- pat_moore@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Luis Jimenez: Lawyers are fighting his repatriation. (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              376 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 11, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

BANK MAKES PUSH TO DRAW IMMIGRANTS INTO BRANCHES

BYLINE: By JEFF OSTROWSKI Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 757 words


Guatemalan immigrant Henry Rivas has several accounts at local banks - which
sounds unremarkable until you consider that many of his countrymen are so
distrustful of the financial system they avoid banks altogether.

Instead, they pay fees to check-cashing stores and carry wads of cash.
Guatemalans, in particular, stay away from banks because they're afraid bank
tellers will report them to immigration authorities, said Rivas, a soft-spoken
man who manages a courier company on Broadway Avenue in West Palm Beach.

"Because everyone is illegal, when they go into the bank, they're thinking about
deportation," Rivas said.

Such fears often keep Hispanic immigrants out of banks. While 95 percent of
white Americans had bank accounts in 2001, only 70 percent of Latinos had bank
accounts, according to the Federal Reserve.

As the Hispanic population explodes in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast
- and nationally - bankers are trying to ease immigrants' concerns. A number of
banks, including Wachovia, Bank of America, Washington Mutual and SunTrust, have
begun to accept the Mexican matricula consular identification cards, although
bankers say they don't track how many customers open accounts with the IDs.

Meanwhile, Fidelity Federal Bank & Trust of West Palm Beach wants to turn itself
into the county's Hispanic bank, one immigrant at a time. Fidelity Vice
President Elena Contreras, a native of Venezuela, has been speaking at churches
and adult education centers in an attempt to convince immigrants who don't have
bank accounts that the mainstream financial system is cheaper and more secure
than the check-cashing services used by many immigrants.

Contreras and Tommy Gonzalez, a Cuban-American branch manager for Fidelity, this
week visited the Palm Beach County School District's Adult Education Center in
West Palm Beach, where Henry Rivas is among the students studying English.

Speaking to a group of recent immigrants from Latin America and Haiti, Contreras
and Gonzalez stressed their money is safer in the bank than in their pockets.
Carrying cash makes immigrants a common target for robbers.

"They call us walking ATMs," Contreras told the group.

Contreras assured students bank tellers have no interest in reporting customers
to immigration authorities. In some Latin countries, nationalized banking
systems mean the bank and the government are one in the same.

"We're not going to check your status in the United States," Contreras said.
"That's not our job."

Contreras also gave a basic economics lesson to students. Many Latin American
banking systems are so unstable that bank failures are common. But in the United
States, no one has lost a penny of federally insured deposits in the 70 years
that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has existed.

"It's very safe to have money in the bank - in this country," Contreras said.
"It's not safe where I come from."

Such lessons are valuable for immigrants who come to Palm Beach County to work
in agricultural jobs, Rivas said.

"They come from the country, and they don't know about banks and ATMs," he said.

But Fidelity Federal isn't targeting only immigrants unfamiliar with banks. The
influx of Latinos into Palm Beach County also includes affluent Colombians,
Venezuelans and Argentines who are fleeing instability in their countries,
Contreras said.

Fidelity Federal long has employed bilingual employees and has printed marketing
materials in Spanish. Now it's stepping up the pace.

This year Fidelity Federal formed a Hispanic advisory council made up of
business and community leaders, and Contreras networks through local groups such
as the Hispanic Alliance and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. And while bank
officials say they're unsure exactly how many accounts they've opened as a
result of their marketing push, they say the county's burgeoning Hispanic
population offers a market too big to ignore.

"It's the fastest-growing community in Palm Beach County," Contreras said. "So
it only makes sense that we make them feel comfortable when they come into the
branches."

- jeff_ostrowski@pbpost.com

New customers?

Fidelity Federal Bank & Trust is targeting Hispanic customers because of that
group's growing numbers in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast:

%%
Year          Population    Increase

PALM BEACH     106%

1990            68,363

2000           140,675

MARTIN       101%

1990             4,728

2000             9,506

ST. LUCIE      164%

1990             5,952

2000            15,733

%% Source: U.S. Census

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C); Photos by SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer 1. LEARNING THE
SYSTEM: Gustav Joseph and other immigrants hear about the American banking
system Tuesday.  2. 'WALKING ATMs': Elena Contreras of Fidelity Federal tells
immigrants that banks are safer than using check-cashing services.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              377 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 22, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

CUSTOMS SEEKS WAYS TO EASE BOATERS' RETURN

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 323 words


The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has notified U.S. Rep. Mark Foley that
it is exploring options to make it easier for boaters returning to the United
States from the Bahamas and other foreign ports to be examined by federal
officers.

Boaters have been upset over the current reporting system, in which it can take
hours to clear the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

In a letter to Foley, Pamela Turner, an agency spokeswoman, said the agency is
examining the feasibility of using a system similar to that used on the Canadian
border, with boat-landing permits issued to so-called trusted travelers.

Also under consideration is expanding a reporting station program on a
nationwide basis, which would require boaters to get a background check so they
could be cleared by calling Immigration and Customs officials when they enter a
U.S. port.

Another option would involve setting up a national private vessel videophone
reporting system that would have boaters being interviewed when they entered
port.

A timetable for implementation of the options wasn't mentioned.

"We're thrilled that the Bush administration is looking for a way to help
Florida's boaters while maintaining the highest level of homeland security,"
Foley, R-West Palm Beach, said Monday.

"While protecting our homeland comes second to nothing, we must find a way to
ease the unreasonable burden on our recreational and commercial boaters."

Boaters returning from a foreign port must travel to either a customs office at
the Port of Palm Beach or at Palm Beach International Airport with all their
passengers so officers can determine whether they are U.S. citizens or have the
right to be in the country.

The only exceptions are holiday weekends, when federal officers are stationed at
the Sailfish Marina in Palm Beach Shores, for example, to examine boaters and
passengers and expedite the process.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              378 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 7, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

SOCIAL SECURITY WORKER ACCUSED OF CARD SALES

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A former Social Security Administration employee appeared in federal court
Wednesday for a bond hearing, the second agency employee this week to appear in
court on charges of selling Social Security cards to immigrants.

Bail was set at $25,000 for Sylena Britt, 30, of Greenacres, who was arrested in
June on charges she processed more than 400 false Social Security cards at the
agency's Belle Glade office.

Britt, accused of selling Social Security cards to undocumented immigrants for
$1,300, is scheduled to enter a plea Sept. 25.

Britt worked for the Social Security Administration from 1998 until she was
fired in June.

On Wednesday, a former employee of the agency's Delray Beach office was
sentenced to 27 months in prison for selling Social Security cards to
immigrants.

Walther Velasquez, 37, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to illegally produce U.S.
identification documents and illegally producing U.S. identification cards.

U.S. Magistrate Linnea Johnson said Britt's motive appeared to be profit rather
than trying to disrupt the federal government.

Prosecutors argued against bail, saying her actions constituted a breach of
national security by giving identification cards to people who were in the
country illegally.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              379 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 11, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS DETAIN 7 IMMIGRANTS BELIEVED TO BE CUBAN NATIONALS

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 237 words


Seven immigrants believed to be Cubans were apprehended by authorities near Lake
Worth Inlet Sunday evening.

The operator of their boat, believed to be an American, also was taken into
custody.

Coast Guard officers and officers from the Florida Fish and Wildlife
Conservation Commission intercepted four of the immigrants aboard a 31-foot boat
just west of the inlet, near Peanut Island. Three others jumped overboard and
swam to Singer Island, where they were captured. Their landfall could ensure
admission to the United States under the "wet foot, dry foot" policy of Cuban
immigration.

In general, Cubans intercepted at sea are returned to the island, and those who
make it to U.S. soil are permitted to stay.

Coast Guard petty officer Danielle DeMarino could not identify the detainees
late Sunday. The name of the boat's operator also was not released.

DeMarino said the immigrants were believed to be Cubans, all adults, and that
their nationalities would have to be confirmed by immigration officials.
DeMarino said none of the immigrants was injured.

The U.S. Border Patrol also assisted in intercepting the center-console,
twin-outboard boat.

As of late Sunday, four of the immigrants, as well as the driver, remained on a
Coast Guard cutter, awaiting immigration officials to pick them up. The others
who made landfall were being held by the border patrol.

- susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              380 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                August 12, 2003 Tuesday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HAITIAN TIED TO '90S ABUSES IS ARRESTED

BYLINE: By WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A former Haitian army soldier accused of torture faces deportation after
immigration agents arrested him in a Fort Pierce home.

Olichard Sauveur, 36, was arrested at 5 a.m. Friday at 4606 Evergreen Ave. by
special agents from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, according
to a Fort Pierce police report.

Ana Santiago, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said Sauveur committed human rights
abuses during the early 1990s, which included "physically abusing people who
were resisting arrest."

Sauveur was being held Monday at the Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade
County, Santiago said.

Richard Krieger, president of International Educational Missions, Inc., the
Boynton Beach foundation that helps track war criminals, said Sauveur's abuses
likely occurred during the reign of Gen. Raul Cedras, who came to power in 1991
following a coup of then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Aristide returned to power with the help of U.S. troops in 1994.

Krieger said at least 3,000 Haitians "just disappeared" under Cedras' regime and
many of the high-ranking perpetrators are hiding in Florida.

"There are so many important people here in Florida that have been named as war
criminals and persecutors," Krieger said. "This guy is not a major player."

Sauveur came to the United States from Haiti shortly after the abuses and had
been living in Fort Pierce, Santiago said.

U.S. officials are processing Sauveur for deportation to Haiti, she said.

The arrest was the latest in a continuing effort by immigration authorities to
crack down on foreign nationals living in the United States who are suspected of
human-rights abuses overseas.

About 50 such people have been arrested nationally since 2000, including several
people suspected of being members of a death squad that operated in Honduras in
the 1980s.

Fort Pierce police assisted federal agents in Sauveur's arrest, but were not
given details of his suspected crimes, said Fort Pierce police spokeswoman
Audria Moore.

Special agents also were looking for another Haitian "persecutor" in the area
Friday, but he was not found, according to the report.

Information from the Associated Press was used

to supplement this story.

will_vash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              381 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 12, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

CUBANS HELD AT SEA MAY WIN U.S. ENTRY IF THEY WILL TESTIFY

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Five Cuban immigrants waited at sea without a country and three more sat in jail
Monday awaiting word on their destinies - possibly suspended there while in a
political dust-up over the United States' repatriation policy.

The people, taken into custody as they made a dash for U.S. soil through the
Lake Worth Inlet Sunday evening, await word on whether prosecutors will charge
the man who operated the boat and whether immigration officials will forcibly
return those who never made landfall to Cuba.

The three men who made it to Singer Island soil remain at the Palm Beach County
Jail, while the three men, one woman and operator of the boat - all of whom
never touched soil - are being held on a U.S. Coast Guard cutter at sea. Under
the so-called "wet-foot, dry-foot" immigration policy, Cubans caught at sea are
kept at sea and generally sent home.

Those who make it to land are generally allowed to remain in the U.S.

The best shot at citizenship for the four Cubans trapped aboard the Coast Guard
vessel with the boat operator may be flipping on him, agreeing to testify in a
criminal case. If the four are allowed to come on to U.S. soil to testify, then
they could qualify under the "dry-foot" immigration policy.

Leaders to warn Bush

The group's run for freedom comes as political brinkmanship brims over returning
immigrants to Cuba. On Monday, a group of influential Republican state
representatives was expected to mail President Bush a letter warning him that he
risks losing their support in the 2004 election if he doesn't change his Cuba
policy. A decision last month to repatriate 12 Cubans suspected of hijacking a
boat to Florida ignited the criticism of Bush's overall Cuba policy, according
to a story in Monday's Miami Herald.

Six of those returned in that controversial decision went on trial Monday in
Cuba facing a maximum 10 years in prison. In April, Cuban authorities executed
three men who hijacked a ferry and tried to sail it to the U.S. Exiled Cubans
have become increasingly more alarmed and vocal over this recent crackdown on
dissidents.

U.S. Coast Guard and Border Patrol officials would not release the identities of
the seven immigrants and boat operator detained locally, citing an ongoing
criminal investigation against the operator. Agents and prosecutors are likely
determining whether they will charge the boat operator with alien smuggling or
some other federal crime.

The boat's operator and four migrants are being held on a 110-foot Coast Guard
cutter on regular patrol off the coast. They are fed regularly and all are in
good health, a Coast Guard duty officer said.

U.S. Border Patrol Agent in Charge Art Bullock said the operator of the boat is
a Cuban national who came to the U.S. in 1999 and has been arrested here before,
but nothing related to alien smuggling. "We want to charge him," Bullock said
Monday.

Bullock said federal prosecutors had not yet reviewed the case and could do so
as early as today. Bullock also said the border patrol believes the vessel
traveled from the Bahamas to the Florida coast.

Cuban landings pick up

Bullock said Jamaicans and Haitians more often land on Palm Beach County shores
than Cubans, who generally head to the Florida Keys or Miami, which are closer
to Cuba. But Cuban nationals have tried to reach land in the county twice
recently. On May 29, four Cubans landed near Gulf Stream after spending a week
at sea in a homemade wooden boat. On March 21, 12 Cuban men landed in Palm
Beach.

Bullock said federal law allows for law enforcement agencies to hold material
witnesses in criminal cases in custody. "Look at all the Arabs being held since
Sept. 11," he said.

The "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy has been in effect since 1995. It was
then-President Bill Clinton's way of fashioning an immigration policy to prevent
mass migration from the island.

Information from Agence-France Presse was used in this story.

susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              382 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 12, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN TIED TO '90S ABUSES IS ARRESTED

BYLINE: By WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A former Haitian army soldier accused of torture faces deportation after
immigration agents arrested him in a Fort Pierce home.

Olichard Sauveur, 36, was arrested at 5 a.m. Friday at 4606 Evergreen Ave. by
special agents from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, according
to a Fort Pierce police report.

Ana Santiago, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said Sauveur committed human rights
abuses during the early 1990s, which included "physically abusing people who
were resisting arrest."

Sauveur was being held Monday at the Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade
County, Santiago said.

Richard Krieger, president of International Educational Missions, Inc., the
Boynton Beach foundation that helps track war criminals, said Sauveur's abuses
likely occurred during the reign of Gen. Raul Cedras, who came to power in 1991
following a coup of then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Aristide returned to power with the help of U.S. troops in 1994.

Krieger said at least 3,000 Haitians "just disappeared" under Cedras' regime and
many of the high-ranking perpetrators are hiding in Florida.

"There are so many important people here in Florida that have been named as war
criminals and persecutors," Krieger said. "This guy is not a major player."

Sauveur came to the United States from Haiti shortly after the abuses and had
been living in Fort Pierce, Santiago said.

U.S. officials are processing Sauveur for deportation to Haiti, she said.

The arrest was the latest in a continuing effort by immigration authorities to
crack down on foreign nationals living in the United States who are suspected of
human-rights abuses overseas.

About 50 such people have been arrested nationally since 2000, including several
people suspected of being members of a death squad that operated in Honduras in
the 1980s.

Fort Pierce police assisted federal agents in Sauveur's arrest, but were not
given details of his suspected crimes, said Fort Pierce police spokeswoman
Audria Moore.

Special agents also were looking for another Haitian "persecutor" in the area
Friday, but he was not found, according to the report.

Information from the Associated Press was used to supplement this story.

will_vash@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              383 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 28, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

GOVERNMENT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers will staff the Sailfish Marina on
Singer Island on Labor Day to process immigration clearances and private vessels
returning from the Bahamas and other foreign ports. Inspectors will be at the
marina from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday. The agency agreed to staff marinas on
holiday weekends this summer after it began forcing boaters returning from
foreign ports to be inspected in person by customs agents instead of just
calling for clearance. For information or to learn about other locations during
the weekend, call (800) 432-1216 or (800) 451-0393.

Gov. Jeb Bush reappointed John P. Linstroth of West Palm Beach to the Commission
on Ethics. The nine-member commission investigates ethics complaints against
elected and appointed local and state officials. The governor appoints five of
its members; the House speaker and the Senate president appoint two members
each. Linstroth, 63, is a retired developer. This is his second term. He will
serve until June 30, 2005.

A deal that paves the way for a Wal-Mart Supercenter on Belvedere Road near Palm
Beach International Airport moved forward this month when the Bentonville, Ark.,
retail giant paid $9 million for the 25-acre site. The county gets $1.85 million
for 8 acres, which will help pay to expand airport security checkpoints. The
rest goes to the Belvedere Military Corp., a trio that includes lawyer Steven
Craig, strip-center builder Lynwood "Woody" Bishop and Chicago investor Larry
Oberman. They have been pursuing the deal since 1992.

PALM BEACH GARDENS - The board of the Northern Palm Beach County Improvement
District agreed Wednesday to appoint civil engineer Ronald Ash to replace
longtime board member Sally Hamadeh, who resigned July 30. Ash's appointment
will become official at the district's Sept. 24 meeting. Ash, of Palm Beach
Gardens, works for engineering firm Brown & Caldwell and has served as city
engineer in Boca Raton and Jupiter. The district issues bonds worth hundreds of
millions of dollars to help developers pay for streets, sidewalks and sewers
within a 128-square-mile patchwork from near Southern Boulevard to the Martin
County line.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              384 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 29, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

JUDGE OKS BOND, BUT BORDER PATROL DETAINS WOMAN

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


For every step toward freedom, there's also one back, it must seem to Yadmilia
Pelegrin and her family.

The Cuban emigre - held for days aboard a Coast Guard boat since a dash for the
coast, then jailed for weeks although she's charged with no crime - got a
federal magistrate judge to grant her release under bond Thursday.

Relatives gathered at U.S. District Court in West Palm Beach to vouch for the
bond and take her home to Hialeah. But at the last minute, border patrol
officials decided she must go to an immigration holding center in Miami instead.

So in a confounding crisscross of agency and court policies, Pelegrin still sits
- despite an assured bond - in the Palm Beach County Jail, charged with no
crime, awaiting transport to Krome Detention Center in Miami.

Her chances of release from Krome are unknown. Her immigration attorney did not
return a call for comment.

Federal officials can hold Pelegrin in the jail as a material witness in an
alien smuggling case they are building against the operator of the boat.
Pelegrin and four other Cubans were held aboard a Coast Guard boat after they
were caught trying to reach land near the Lake Worth Inlet this month.

Pelegrin, a 27-year-old high school graduate, was desperate to leave Cuba
because for two years, she had had no job or hope for the future, her brother
said.

Thursday's ruling for Pelegrin's release was a brief hope for her brother trying
to understand the complicated process.

Juan Carlos Pelegrin, a Hialeah truck driver, hovered about the courthouse
nearly all day awaiting her release, only to learn now's she's entered a
different, difficult journey with immigration.

"At least she's here and not in Cuba," he said.

susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); Yadmilia Pelegrin (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              385 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 11, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

WHY DO MANY IMMIGRANTS ESCHEW THE 'MELTING POT'?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 169 words


About the Sept. 3 article "One in five county residents born outside U.S.": I
can believe that, but what I found hard to swallow was that one in four who are
5 or older speak a language other than English at home. More than half of the
foreign-born residents came to this country before 1990, but fewer than 42
percent have become citizens.

I find it difficult to believe that that many coming in to this country to look
for a brighter future fail to make the move in a permanent fashion. English as a
second language is available if they want to move ahead. And how can they be
allowed to live here for an extended period and not work to become citizens?

With such diverse backgrounds among citizens, the multicultural complexion of
Palm Beach County is enriched, but having so many residents who seem to be
unwilling to make efforts at permanency is incredible. It appears that American
immigration laws and borders need to be tightened. The melting pot needs more
heat.

PEGGY WILLITS

North Palm Beac

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              386 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 20, 2003 Saturday SOUTH EDITION

CHURCH PROGRAM'S SERVICES WORK SMALL MIRACLES FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


He had two homes, an American executive's salary and an expensive car. By social
standards in Uruguay, Martin Zeballos was a rich man.

Now everything he owns once belonged to someone else and his proudest possession
is the used 10-speed Cierra bicycle he rides to a job cleaning office buildings.

But it gets him to work. It helps pay the rent. It feeds his family. And it
keeps him sane.

"I even went down four pant sizes," said Zeballos, 51, attempting to joke
through worn eyes.

When the Casa Hispana outreach program gave him the bike in July, Zeballos said
he felt his whole body convulse with an emotion he thought he would never feel
again: relief.

"Before this, I was walking to work," said Zeballos, who emigrated for a
promised promotion that fell through.

For the past two years, the program, sponsored by St. Joan of Arc Catholic
Church, has helped make countless little miracles for the area's Hispanic
immigrants who speak limited English.

Church officials saw the need when they realized the Spanish-language Mass they
began offering on Sunday nights quickly drew 450 new members to the
congregation.

The church decided it would expand its role in the community by providing social
services most immigrants need when they settle in a new area - medical, legal
and emergency assistance for basic needs such as food. The parish put Sister
Carmen Alvarez, a Cuban-born nun, in charge of the program. Families in need
have come to know her as simply "Hermana Carmen."

"She's like the patron saint of our community," said Peruvian-born Rafael
Moreyra, who asked the nun to write up a certificate he needed to participate in
a friend's baptism. "She keeps us going."

On a a typical day, Alvarez will open the office doors of Casa Hispana, which
means Hispanic House, to help up to 40 clients a week by routing them to a
specific social service such as medical care at The Caridad Health Clinic in
Boynton Beach. The program is located in a house the church owns across the
street. Alvarez keeps a stocked pantry in the house for clients with emergency
needs.

"We have a little bit of everything here," she said.

Alvarez has distributed dozens of bicycles through the program. It's an extra
service the program offers that can make a big difference in families struggling
economically.

"They depend on the church to open its doors and help them," she said.

Zeballos, for example, said he had been praying for something good to happen. He
found himself unemployed soon after he moved his family.

He thought his family would be forced out on the street, he said. The program
answered his prayers.

"Ninety-nine percent of what we have now - we found on the street," Zeballos
said. "We were saved."

pam _perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              387 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 2, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

CUSTOMS FINDS 3,541 POUNDS OF POT IN CONTAINER AT PORT

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


U.S. Customs and Immigration officers used a high-tech X-ray machine Wednesday
to discover 3,541 pounds of marijuana behind a false wall in a 40-foot ship
container at the Port of Palm Beach.

A Riviera Beach police dog alerted on the container and then the $2 million
X-ray machine was called in to find the neatly wrapped bales behind the false
wall, said Assistant Police Chief David Harris.

Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office K-9 officers also participated, federal
officials said.

Steve Wunderlich, supervisor with the U.S. Immigration and Contraband
Enforcement Group, said the pot, which arrived in a supposedly empty container
from the Cayman Islands, had a street value of about $10 million.

Investigators will now seek cooperation from the Cayman Islands government and
work with Tropical Shipping at the port to determine who may have been waiting
for the illicit shipment, Wunderlich said.

"We focus on terrorist-associated items (with the X-ray), but in this case we
came up with narcotics," said Louie Rodriguez, supervisory officer with the U.S.
Customs and Border Protection Group.

It was the second time this year that more than 3,000 pounds of pot was
discovered in a Tropical Shipping container at the port.

In March, 3,596 pounds of marijuana and 200 pounds of hashish oil was was found
under similar circumstances, Wunderlich said.

The pot was taken to a sheriff's office evidence location for storage while the
investigation continues, he said.

- joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              388 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                October 26, 2003 Sunday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

VETERANS AND IMMIGRATION

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 60

LENGTH: 162 words


Veterans Affairs

The 244-bed Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach serves more than a
quarter-million veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River, Glades,
Okeechobee and Hendry counties. The VA also operates outpatient clinics in Boca
Raton, Delray Beach, Stuart, Fort Pierce, Vero Beach and Okeechobee. Veterans
who need information on services can call (561) 882-8262. The Vet Center at 2311
10th Ave. N., No. 13, in Lake Worth, provides free counseling for job placement,
benefits and post-traumatic stress disorder. The center's phone number is (561)
585-0441.

Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services

Part of the Department of Homeland Security. Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Satellite office in West Palm Beach serving South Florida is
at 326 Fern St., Suite 200. Phone (800) 375-5283 for recorded messages on
immigration regulations and pending cases. Information is also on the Web at
www.bcis.gov.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
DISCOVER The Treasure CoastHEALTH CARE

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              389 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 5, 2003 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

DIVERSITY IMMIGRANT VISA PROGRAM AVAILABLE TO FINNS

BYLINE: Antti Mansikkamaki

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 6, Finnish Focus<

LENGTH: 588 words


For some immigrants, including Finns who wish to live permanently in the U.S.
but don't have a green card, there is a chance to obtain one through the
government's Diversity Immigrant Visa Program.

The program is administered on an annual basis by the U.S. Department of State
to provide for a new class of immigrants known as "diversity immigrants" (DV
immigrants). The program makes available 50,000 permanent resident visas
annually to people from countries with low rates of immigration to the U.S.

The annual DV program makes permanent residence visas available to people
meeting the simple, but strict, eligibility requirements. A computer-generated
random lottery chooses the applicants for the diversity visas.

The visas are distributed among six geographic regions, with a greater number of
visas going to regions with lower rates of immigration, and with no visas going
to citizens of countries that have sent more than 50,000 immigrants to the U.S.
in the past five years. Within each region, no one country can receive more than
7 percent of the available visas in one year.

Applications are accepted from Nov. 1 to Dec. 30. Registration will be accepted
online. Finland is a country with a low rate of immigration to the U.S. and its
citizens qualify to participate in the program.

- Entry requirements: The applicant must be a citizen of a country that
qualifies. In most cases this means the country in which the applicant was born.
However, if a person was born in a country whose citizens are ineligible but
his/her spouse was born in a country whose citizens are eligible, that person
can claim the spouse's birth country providing both the applicant and spouse are
issued visas and enter the U.S. simultaneously. If a person was born in a
country whose citizens are ineligible, and neither parent was born there or
resided there at the time of the birth, that person might be able to claim
citizenship in one of the parents' birth countries..

The applicant must meet either the education or training requirement of the DV
program. An applicant must have either a high school education or its equivalent
- defined as successful completion of a 12-year course of elementary and
secondary education - or two years of work experience within the past five years
in an occupation requiring at least two years of training or experience to
perform. The U.S. Department of Labor's O*Net OnLine database will be used to
determine qualifying work experience. Applicants can visit www.onetcenter.org.

- Local events: On Tuesday, a versatile trio of worldwide recognition and
prize-winning folk musicians from Moscow, called Moscow Nights will visit the
Finland House.

In the past couple of years, after first storming western Europe, The Moscow
Nights have established themselves as one of the fastest rising folk groups in
the U.S.

The music of Moscow Nights is predominantly authentic, traditional Russian folk
music. The group leader, Vitaly Bezrodnov, spent some considerable time touring
the Russian countryside, interviewing the eldest members of each village, in an
effort to preserve Russian culture.

According to Bezrodnov, the program is broad and varied with something to appeal
to everyone. The show starts at 7 p.m. in the Finland House at Dixie Highway and
Finlandia Boulevard in Lantana.

Antti Mansikkamaki writes about the Finnish community for Neighborhood Post.
Send mail to 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL 33405. Call 820-4763,
fax 837-8320.

- neighborhood@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lake Worth / Lantana

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              390 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 25, 2003 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SENT HOME $30 BILLION

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA NAVARRO CLIFTON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 257 words


An estimated $30 billion flows from immigrants in the United States to family
members in Latin America, making up the largest remittance network in the world,
according to a study released Monday by the Pew Hispanic Center and the
Inter-American Bank.

The 6 million immigrants who send money back home support a substantial percent
of adults in several Latin American countries, the study found. This year,
remittances are due to surpass direct foreign investment as a source of capital
to Latin America and the Caribbean.

Roberto Suro, director of the Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center, said the
most surprising finding of the study was how widespread and important
remittances are to much of Latin America.

"The impact is really being felt in the working class and lower middle class by
people who have something to lose," Suro said.

The study was based on information compiled by the Pew Hispanic Center and the
Multilateral Fund of the Inter-American Development Bank from a series of
studies on the sending and receiving of remittances for 12,000 people in the
United States and Latin America.

The Migrant Farmer Worker Justice Project, a Lake Worth-based nonprofit that
assists immigrants with legal matters, serves mostly Mexican and Guatemalan
workers in Palm Beach County. Attorney Greg Schell said remittances are the
center of life for nearly every one of his clients.

"They're here for one reason - to send money home," Schell said. "That's why
they scrimp and live 12 in a trailer."

alex_clifton@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              391 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     November 28, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

RENACER PROGRAM HELPS IMMIGRANTS ADJUST TO NEW LIFE

BYLINE: By TANYA WRAGG Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 643 words


When Jesus Salazar migrated to this country from Venezuela less than three years
ago, he thought it would take him at least 10 years to own his own home.

For two years, he worked 17-hour days to support his wife and their five
children. But that all stopped about a year ago, when he enrolled in Renacer, or
Reborn, a program geared at teaching immigrants how to start new lives in the
United States at the Centro Cultural Latinoamericano in West Palm Beach.

"I was paying $800 a month for rent," he said. "That was fifty percent of what I
was earning a month. It was hard."

Now, less than a year after taking a course on how to buy a home, Salazar and
his family are living in their own home - and his monthly mortgage payment is
$425.

"When I found out all you needed to buy a house was two W2s, a bank account,
some decent credit and a few telephone and water bills, I thought, 'Hey, I've
worked here two years. I have two W2s. I can buy a house,' " said Salazar, a bus
driver for the Palm Beach Medical Center. "My biggest dream was to buy a house
and now I'm happy, happy, happy."

Since its inception a year ago, Renacer has helped scores of immigrants make
friends, obtain job interviews, establish credit and prepare their children for
school in a foreign environment.

"When immigrants get here, they go through major culture shock," said Patricia
Vega, program coordinator. "They have no one to tell them the basics of living
in America, like how to obtain a driver's license or how to open up a bank
account."

The center recently released the findings of a study it conducted on the 93
immigrants enrolled in Renacer this year. The majority, they found, were married
Colombian women, and most left their native countries for economic reasons.

Although roughly 60 percent of the people in the program graduated from a
university in their native country - and 69 percent had family in the United
States to assist them when they arrived - the assimilation process, Vega said,
has still been difficult for some.

Salazar agreed, saying he "felt like a fish out of water" when he first began
his job as a bus driver. In Venezuela, he was a licensed electric engineer.

"I was so disoriented," he said.

The biggest hurdle for immigrants, according to Salazar - and the recent study -
was learning English. Sixty percent of the people in the classes identified that
as their major concern, followed by finding a job in their field of study and
getting around without identification documents, like birth certificates.

Salazar said his current job has helped with at least one of those hurdles.

"When I got here, the only words I knew how to say in English were house and dog
and teacher," he said, laughing. "I understood 70 percent of English and the
other 40 percent I made up in my head. But I practice now in the bus with the
elderly people I take to and from the hospital. They're patient and I feel more
comfortable talking to them."

In another poll taken by the center a month ago, the immigrants were asked to
list the most important things they hoped to accomplish in five years. Obtaining
U.S. citizenship or residency and buying a house topped the list.

Now that Salazar has accomplished those, he's working on his next dream: opening
up a funeral home that caters to traditional Hispanic burials.

"I go to the library on my free time and research funeral homes and learn about
the potential competition," he said. "We're all going to die, so the business is
good."

In the meantime, he continues to learn new skills at the center. He is enrolled
in a course on repairing refrigerators and air conditioners.

"In a country like this where nothing is free, the center is the greatest
place," he said. "I've learned so much and it was all free. It's incredible.
They're my guiding light."

tanya_wragg@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              392 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 3, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

DON'T EXCUSE UNFORGIVABLE TREATMENT OF MIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 226 words


In response to the Dec. 14 letter "Abused, yes, but illegal migrants are not
slaves": The writer must be unfamiliar with the definition of slavery, because
that is exactly what the immigrants described in The Post's series "Modern-Day
Slavery" are being subjected to. If someone is locked up against his or her
will, beaten and paid less than what the law requires, this is slavery.

I have witnessed migrant workers in various settings, and they are treated like
slaves, especially in Florida. The writer is hiding from the truth to call this
treatment abuse, not slavery. They have a very strong work ethic and deserve to
be compensated rather than taken advantage of. Nobody has the right to treat
anyone in this cruel, demeaning way. If we are going to employ them, we have the
responsibility to treat them the same as anyone else.

I also believe the letter-writer is letting his negative feelings about
immigration justify his approval of their treatment. These are human beings who
just want a shot at a better life. They don't know that they will live as slaves
when they come here. I agree that their countries need to take care of them, but
we know that isn't likely to happen. What does it say about our country when
desperate people come here wanting to help their families and we treat them as
slaves?

JENNY TERHUNE

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              393 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 10, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 459 words


A suburban West Palm Beach woman was arrested Thursday after authorities say she
left a series of threatening messages on the voice mail of a sheriff's detective
who had arrested her son. Tinjo Young, 41, of 4724 Cherry Road left messages for
Detective Thomas Fresneda in November that included excerpts such as "I am not
threatening you, but judgment day is coming," and "You are going to pay for it .
. . get my son out or else," according to an arrest report. She was arrested on
a charge of corruption by threat against a public servant.

An elementary school music teacher accused of having sex with an 11-year-old
former student was released on bond from the Palm Beach County Jail Friday
morning and placed under house arrest, the sheriff's office said. Carol Lynn
Flannigan, 49, of Boca Raton was transported to her parents' home, where she
will remain while she awaits trial. The Rolling Green Elementary teacher is on
paid leave.

WEST PALM BEACH - Sylena Britt of Greenacres issued 378 bogus identity cards to
undocumented immigrants from the Social Security Administration's office in
Belle Glade. On Friday, one of her customers pleaded guilty to providing false
information to get one of those Social Security cards. Andrew William Jeudy
received the card at his residence in the name of Jean Guerdes Maitre. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service found no record of Maitre entering the
country. Jeudy is scheduled to be sentenced March 25. Fired in June, Britt was
sentenced in December to 30 months in prison. She charged $1,300 apiece to
provide undocumented immigrants with Social Security cards.

A massage student at the Academy of the Healing Arts in suburban Lake Worth was
arrested Thursday on accusations that he sexually battered a female customer
while giving her a massage. Jimmie Banks, 33, of 345 N. Haverhill Road in West
Palm Beach is accused of improperly fondling a woman while giving her a
full-body massage Thursday at the academy at 3141 S. Military Trail, according
to an arrest report. During a recorded phone call afterward with the victim,
Banks apologized but said he had done the same for other female customers with
no complaints, the report stated. He was arrested by the Palm Beach County
Sheriff's Office on a charge of sexual battery.

PORT ST. LUCIE - A man died Friday when he was struck by a Martin County
sheriff's patrol car driven by a deputy on his way to work. Delroy Troupe, 50,
of Stony Avenue was riding a bicycle south at 6:13 a.m. on Savona Boulevard when
a southbound Martin County sheriff's patrol car driven by deputy Robert Quaglia,
35, struck him, said Port St. Lucie police spokesman Kacey Donnell. Troupe died
at the scene. "It appears to be an accident," Donnell said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              394 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 14, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

INTERNET SITES CAN HELP LOCATE FINNISH ANCESTORS

BYLINE: Antti Mansikkamaki

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 7, Finnish Focus<

LENGTH: 781 words


While surfing the Internet trying to find some interesting information about
Finns and Finland, I found resources that can be helpful in finding immigrant
ancestors. I hope these Web sites will help those interested in searching their
family tree.

Archive Holdings in the United States.

- Immigration History Research Center:

About 160 manuscript collections are included in the Finnish American collection
at the Web site www1.umn.edu/ihrc/finnish.htm at the Immigration History
Research Center at the University of Minnesota in St. Paul. There are archives
of labor societies, cooperative associations and more.

- Finnish-American Historical Archives:

The Finnish-American Historical Archives and the Finnish-American Heritage
Center at Finlandia University at www.finlandia.edu/ in Hancock, Mich., offers a
lot of archival sources when researching Finns in the United States. The
archives are the oldest repository of Finnish archival material in the United
States. There are originals and microfilms of Finnish-American church and
society records, newspapers, periodicals, personal papers and more. The Heritage
Center has thousands of Finnish microfilms with church records. They can be used
in the Heritage Center. Listings of some of the material can be found at
www.genealogia.fi/emi/emi3cle.htm.

- The Iron Range Research Center in Chisholm, Minn.:

The Web site www.ironrangeresearchcenter.org has tape recordings, biographies,
manuscripts and more concerning Finnish activities in the mining districts in
Minnesota.

- Marquette County Historical Society:

A list of the Finnish collection can be found at
www.genealogia.fi/emi/emi3cme.htm including taped interviews and biographies.

Archive Holdings in Finland

- Manuscript Department of Abo Akademi University Library:

At the library Web site www.abo.fi/library/hands/welcomee.sht one can find the
extensive holdings of the Swedish-Finnish emigration historian, professor Anders
Myhrman.

The holdings include the base material to his history about Swedish-Finns in
America, subscription lists for Swedish-Finnish newspapers in the United States,
and biographies and letters written in Swedish by immigrants. The biographies
are partially published in the publication series of the library, but without an
alphabetical index of people. The index can be found at
www.genealogia.fi/emi/emi3cb1e.htm.

There are also microfilms for some Swedish-Finnish parishes and societies in the
United States. The department has the originals of the passenger lists of the
Finnish Steamship Co. The lists contain information about third-class passengers
who traveled from Hanko (Hango) in Finland to Hull, England, and embarked on
some of the big oceanliners for North or South America, Australia, New Zealand
or South Africa. At the Migration Institute in Turku, passengers can be
researched at www.migrationinstitute.fi/migration/ml/index_e.html.

- The American Expedition 1971:

The Department of Nordic Languages and Literature at the University of Helsinki,
in cooperation with two other institutions, made an expedition in 1971 to
collect language and traditions of the Swedish-Finnish immigrants in the United
States. About 600 people were interviewed.

The material is at Folkkultursarkivet in Helsinki (address: Ritarikatu 5,
FIN-00170 Helsinki, phone +358-9-618777, fax +358-9-61877277). The collection is
made up of 382 reels of tape recordings, about 4,300 pages of transcriptions,
179 photographs and many letters and other written material. The participants
are indexed in order of name and home area in Finland.

Institute of Migration in Turku:this web site is the university of turku

The Institute of Migration has letters, pictures, indexes, etc., with
information about the emigration from Finland to the United States.nited States.
Visit the institute's Web site atThey have a Web sitehome page (www.utu.fi)
forwith a summary of information about their holdings.

- Passenger Lists for Swedish Harbors:

Indexes to passenger lists for Swedish harbors can be found in the provincial
archives of Gothenburg, Sweden. Thousands of Finns can be found in these lists.
Part of the material has been published on the compact disc Emigranten.
Researchers can use the CD in the library of the Genealogical Society of
Finland.

- The Finnish Seamen's Mission:

The church archives of the Finnish Seamen's Mission in Brooklyn, N.Y.
(1887-1931) are on microfilm. The Web site is www.genealogia.fi/emi/emi3cke.htm.

Antti Mansikkamaki writes about the Finnish community or Neighborhood Post. Send
mail to 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL 33405. Call 820-4763, fax
837-8320.

- neighborhood@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lake Worth / Lantana

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              395 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 1, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS HAVE JUPITER WEIGHING HOUSING RULES

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


On most mornings, throngs of immigrant day laborers line a two-block area of
Center Street near Pennock Lane, waiting for landscapers and contractors to pick
them up for jobs.

Complaints have begun to pile up in some of the town's older neighborhoods that
too many of those workers are living in crowded conditions in single-family
homes meant for fewer people, Assistant Town Manager Andy Lucasik said last
week.

"Jupiter has a long history of accommodating migrant workers," he said. "The
staff has concerns over homes designed for single families having an outrageous
number of individuals living there."

There doesn't seem to be a consensus on how to solve the problem, but the town
council will give preliminary consideration Tuesday night to an ordinance that
would regulate the number of people allowed in a given residential space.

Many of the workers are natives of Guatemala, and Lucasik said a
Spanish-speaking police officer is already letting them know what is acceptable
under town housing codes that govern health and safety.

Town staff forums with residents of the neighborhoods of Eastview Manor and Pine
Gardens South showed people want landlords to limit the number of people in
rental homes and keep them better maintained.

Crowded living conditions for immigrant laborers is an ongoing concern in Palm
Beach County.

Lake Worth has set up a special team, called the CAT Team, which conducts block
inspections in the city center, in an effort to protect the city's immigrant
laborers from unscrupulous landlords.

Armand Harnois, Lake Worth's chief housing inspector, recently said inspectors
often find from eight to 15 people living in one- or two-bedroom homes - which
violates state migrant housing standards. Those laws require a bed for each
person and at least 50 square feet of sleeping space.

Key provisions of Jupiter's proposed ordinance, which will get final
consideration Feb. 17 if it is approved on first reading Tuesday, would require
a bedroom occupied by one person to have at least 70 square feet, and every
bedroom occupied by more than one person to have at least 50 square feet per
person.

Other living spaces would have minimum sizes, depending on the number of
occupants. For example, for one or two people, there are no minimum sizes for
living and dining rooms. But for three to five people, the living room must be
120 square feet and the dining room 80 square feet.

For six or more occupants, the living room minimum must be 150 square feet and
the dining room 100 square feet, according to the proposed ordinance.

If homes are found to be occupied by more than the maximum number of occupants,
they can be deemed unfit for habitation and closed, unless the number of
occupants is reduced to meet ordinance requirements.

Not everyone thinks an ordinance regulating the number of occupants is the
answer to the problem.

Florida Atlantic University Associate Professor Tim Steigenga, an advocate for
the Guatemalan support group Corn Maya Inc., last week urged the town to launch
a lengthy educational process before doing enforcement.

"I understand why the town is doing it," Steigenga said. "There could be health
and other concerns, but as long as it's applied town-wide I don't have a
problem."

Steigenga said he is doing a study of the situation and estimates there are up
to 3,000 migrant workers in the town.

"We need to find affordable housing, or they'll wind up with a bigger problem
than they have," he said.

Another key move by the town would be building a labor center on industrial land
with toilets and running water so migrant workers can have easy access to trucks
without congesting residential streets.

Councilwoman Babs Henderson characterized the ordinance as a "Band-Aid"
approach: "If six people are living in a place where only three are allowed,
what are you going to do with the other three, put them out in the street?"

Councilman Don Daniels said he is hesitant to support a housing occupancy
ordinance to solve a crowded worker pickup problem on Center Street.

"I respect the Guatemalans because they're very hard workers," Daniels said.
"The problem is the system where contractors pay them in cash and they don't pay
taxes, and there are probably immigration and IRS problems."

He said he would not spend taxpayer money to build an industrial area pickup
point because the cost should be borne by contractors who hire the laborers.

joe_brogan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              396 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 12, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

DEPUTY CHARGED WITH STEALING CASH FROM MOTORISTS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 840 words


When sheriff's deputy James Tacktikos took the billfolds from immigrants stopped
for traffic violations, he wasn't looking for driver licenses.

He wanted their money, authorities say.

The 41-year-old deputy robbed at least six immigrants in recent months,
threatening some with arrest and deportation when they complained, according to
investigators.

The alleged shakedowns ended when one of the deputy's victims, Miguel Ordonez,
flagged down a Lake Worth police officer Dec. 13 and said Tacktikos had taken
his wallet containing $500.

Sheriff's commanders immediately took Tacktikos off the streets and began an
investigation that ended Tuesday with his arrest on charges of grant theft and
his resignation as a deputy. Tacktikos was released from the Palm Beach County
jail Tuesday on $3,000 bond.

Most of the Guatemalans and Mexicans stopped by Tacktikos did not report their
losses until they were tracked down by sheriff's detectives.

Many feared they could be turned over to immigration authorities if they
complained, said Detective Johnny Slaughter.

"It was a lot cheaper for them to forget about it and chalk it up as a loss,"
Slaughter said.

Slaughter said any motorists who missed money after being stopped by Tacktikos
should call the sheriff's office.

Tacktikos' own mistakes helped investigators. They found a stack of driver
licenses and ID cards in his patrol car that led investigators to some victims,
according to the arrest affidavit.

The deputy, who was a corrections officer before transferring to road patrol in
1998, worked in the busy Lake Worth corridor on the midnight shift, putting him
in the heart of the immigrant community.

Slaughter said he was shocked by Tacktikos' behavior and could not say why a
deputy earning $49,000 a year would risk his career for a few thousand dollars.

Some of the thefts were for as little as $50.

"I'm extremely surprised," said Slaughter, who said the deputy kept his silence
during the investigation.

Tacktikos declined comment Wednesday and referred questions to his attorney,
Scott Richardson, who could not be reached.

Good evaluations on file

Court records show Tacktikos lost his home to a foreclosure in 2002. He was
divorced last summer and ordered by the court to pay $400 a month in child
support.

Sheriff's personnel records show Tacktikos had good evaluations since becoming a
patrol officer and was called a "valuable member" of the department. But he was
fired as a corrections sergeant in 1988 for falsifying a report about an inmate
who claimed excessive force was used against him by other deputies. Tacktikos
was not accused of hitting the inmate but wrote the incident report. Tacktikos
was reinstated by his superiors within a month of his dismissal.

Tuesday's arrest marked at least the third time in five years that allegations
of police shakedowns of motorists have surfaced in Palm Beach County.

Lake Worth police officer David Rodriguez pleaded guilty in November to
accepting bribes in exchange for making arrests. The victims were not
specifically identified as Hispanic. Rodriguez was sentenced to two years
probation.

A West Palm Beach police officer, Daniel Cook, pleaded guilty in 2000 to petty
theft for taking from $250 to $600 from a Guatemalan immigrant stopped for a
traffic infraction. Three other Guatemalans also complained the officer took
money from them during traffic stops. Cook was sentenced to six months
probation.

The convictions caused both officers to lose their state law enforcement
certification.

An advocate for Guatemalans said Wednesday that police shakedowns are a small
piece of the widespread mistreatment they confront at their jobs and in their
neighborhoods.

"It happens in all kinds of situations where these workers are abused and
exploited because they are vulnerable," said Lucio Perez, executive director of
the Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth. He said many remain quiet about police
abuses because of the brutality they have experienced at the hands of police in
Guatemala.

The arrest affidavit alleges Tacktikos took $7,684 from immigrants during six
stops from July through December. Suspicions about missing money caused one
deputy to report Tacktikos to a supervisor, the affidavit says.

The biggest theft was $5,434 taken in November from Hedgard Aguirre of Port St.
Lucie, who was stopped by another deputy with Tacktikos responding as backup.

In the Ordonez case, Tacktikos allegedly was more interested in money than
enforcing the law. Ordonez, 21, of Lake Worth was driving on Melaleuca Lane at 2
a.m. Dec. 13 when Tacktikos pulled him over. After allegedly taking his billfold
with $500 inside, Tacktikos ordered Ordonez to drive away. The deputy tapped his
wrists together to indicate Ordonez would be handcuffed and arrested if he
refused to leave, the affidavit says.

Ordonez, who did not have a valid driver license, drove to Lake Worth and
stopped the first police officer he saw.

- bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); James Tacktikos: Alleged victims feared deportation. (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              397 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 15, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

TUNE UP IMMIGRATION MACHINERY

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 770 words


My favorite photograph of 2003 showed a green 1951 Chevrolet pickup chugging
through the Atlantic Ocean about 40 miles off the coast of Florida.

Two ingenious Cuban mechanics had converted the old truck into an escape vessel
by using 55-gallon drums for flotation and welding a propeller onto the drive
shaft. The Coast Guard intercepted the truck boat in July and returned the two
men and the 10 other Cuban migrants with them back to the island.

The Coast Guard then sank the pickup with a hail of machine-gun fire.

Two weeks ago, halfway between Havana and Key West, U.S. patrols spotted another
remarkable sight: a green 1959 Buick sedan, pushing through the waves of the
Florida Straits at about 5 knots, with 11 people aboard.

It was deja vu - or more accurately, otra vez - all over again for the Coast
Guard. The same two guys were back.

They are Marciel Basanta Lopez and Luis Grass Rodriguez, friends whose desperate
desire to put Fidel Castro in their rearview mirror is obvious and
extraordinary.

Authorities reacted the same way toward them. They sank the Buick, detained the
migrants and prepared to return them. This time, however, Mr. Rodriguez got a
lawyer and appealed for asylum.

The Department of Homeland Security decided that Mr. Grass, his wife and
4-year-old son had reasonable fear of persecution if returned and ordered a
"detailed examination" of their case. Federal officials sent the family to the
U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay until review of a visa request Mr. Grass filed
after his first voyage last year. The other eight migrants - including the other
mastermind, Mr. Basanta - were dropped off at the Cuban port of Bahia de Cabanas
and repatriated.

We can make immigration decisions as difficult as we want. With something like
wet foot-dry foot policy, we also can make them as ridiculous as we want.

But it's difficult to comprehend why the U.S. Attorney General's Office didn't
offer Messrs Grass and Basanta humanitarian paroles and admit them and their
families into the United States, especially when there were two chances to do
so.

The government has used discretionary power to give the paroles to minor-league
Cuban baseball players and allowed them expedited entry. What is the argument
for sending back two men who embody the attributes Americans value most? If
you're not impressed by their determination and courage in the pursuit of
freedom, what about their mechanical genius?

People who can transform Truman-era Chevys into seaworthy motorboats could
revolutionize the auto industry. Messrs Grass and Basanta are too talented to
reject. They might be capable of designing SUVs that don't tip over, or of
making hydrogen cars practical. Maybe they can invent windshield wipers that
don't need to be turned off at toll booths or taxis that don't need pine-scented
air fresheners. As soon as I saw the truck boat photo, I knew these guys could
fix my Mazda's AC - something no South Florida mechanic seems capable of doing.

What Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez did for the New York Yankees after emigrating
from Cuba, the two mechanics could do for NASCAR. Anyone who can make a Buick
ride an ocean can keep a stock car from getting squirrelly in the turns.

The United States was willing to overlook Wernher von Braun's Nazi past and
embrace him after World War II to advance the nation's rocket science. Surely,
two men, hungry for democracy, fleeing Castro's tyranny, deserve the same
treatment to advance auto research.

Last month, General Motors had to recall 800,000 cars because of a
power-steering defect that may have led to at least eight injuries. Messrs Grass
and Basanta's clear preference for GM products makes them obvious candidates to
restore consumers' faith in the company's quality control. What better spokesmen
could GM have?

Mr. Grass pleaded his case last week in federal court. U.S. District Judge
Federico Moreno sounded crestfallen in ruling that he had no power to intervene.
"It is difficult to imagine a more creative way to escape the dictatorial regime
that is Cuba," Judge Moreno wrote, but he added that he had no "authority to
admit aliens, even imaginative, hardworking, brave individuals."

This is a great loss for the country. But who believes that Americans have seen
the last of either Mr. Grass, or Mr. Basanta in Havana?

Certainly not Castro. The Associated Press reports that Cuban police are busy
scouring the city for a red 1951 Ford pickup that is missing and belongs to the
Basanta family.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              398 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 23, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

LET IN INNOVATIVE CUBANS, BUT FIX POLICY ON HAITIANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 117 words


I agree with Dan Moffett regarding the granting of amnesty for the Cubans found
in the Florida Straits riding in a floating '59 Buick ("Tune up immigration
machinery," Feb. 15). Nevertheless, in general, granting Cuban refugees
unconditional amnesty (when and if apprehended on land) is clearly an act of
preferential treatment.

Scores upon scores of Haitian boat people and refugees are most likely to be
deported, and this is based upon obvious racial discrimination as well as the
profound desire by political demagogues (especially Republicans) to cater to the
wants and needs of the Cuban community at the expense of less influential and
vocal groups.

PETE A. DE MATTEO

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              399 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 14, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB RIGHT TO BE FOCUSING ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 185 words


I found Molly Ivins' column "Environmental rap sheet" (April 1) to be a mostly
typical column from the anti-Bush crowd. What was interesting, however, was her
concern over the Sierra Club members' increasing awareness that meteoric
population growth, spurred by illegal immigration, presents an ever-rising
threat to environmental protection.

As an Independent voter and member of the Sierra Club, I have many disagreements
with the Bush administration, including on environmental policies and amnesty
proposals for illegal aliens. Moreover, both sides of the aisle want to ignore
the Clinton administration's Council on Sustainable Development's conclusion
that immigration must be reduced. Are Democrats as culpable as Republicans if
they forsake the environment to grab an entitlement vote?

Sierra Club members are probably more concerned about the environment than
politically based individuals such as Ms. Ivins. If she didn't have her agendas,
perhaps she would pay attention to demographic information showing astronomic
population growth spurred by immigration.

KENNETH C. BRUNO

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              400 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 25, 2004 Sunday SOUTH EDITION

IMMIGRANT LEFT MOST OF HER ESTATE TO U.S.

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 540 words


Maria Woods was stubborn and contrary to the end. She didn't want to move into
an assisted living facility because she'd have to give up her oven. She insisted
on taking the bus 15 miles to see her lawyer.

And the German immigrant did precisely the opposite of what nearly every
self-respecting estate planner and taxpayer in the United States would do.

She left nearly all her worldly goods - diminished though they were - to the
U.S. government as a way of showing her gratitude to the country that embraced
her.

"My job is to help my clients avoid giving anything to the government," said
attorney Joseph Karp, who handles estate, trust and elder law. "She told me this
country has given her everything she has and she wanted to give some back."

When Woods died in September at age 80, she left 70 percent of her estate to the
U.S. Treasury and 30 percent to the Arthritis Foundation to devote to curing her
disabling ailment, minus some small bequests to friends.

"When she told me she was going to leave her money to the IRS, I thought, 'Oh,
God,' " said longtime friend Pat Dooley, who lives in Pensacola. "She had no
idea she was giving the fox all the chickens and the chicken house."

A few years ago, Woods' estate amounted to $500,000, but the costs of medical
care and aging shrank it to about $98,000. But it's the principle of the thing,
not the principal.

Woods was born Maria Hoffman to a tavern owner in pre-World War II Germany.
During the war, her family fled the advancing Russian army. Later, when the
Poles took over the area, her family was deported to West Germany.

She found a job caring for two years for the young children of Gerald and Pat
Dooley, a military family. Woods kept up a lifelong correspondence with Pat
Dooley. The Dooleys sponsored her immigration to the United States in 1959,
bringing her bicycle when they returned from overseas.

She cared for the children of wealthy families who sometimes visited Florida,
where she vowed to live. She married a Chicago chauffeur named George Woods, who
died in the 1970s.

Maria Woods became a U.S. citizen in 1970. She wrote to Dooley in 1978, "I
became a Citizen of this big strong beautiful country eight years ago. . . . The
day I buy a Cadillac I will be a full-blood American. Are you a little proud of
me?"

Suspicious of people individually, she was loving and trusting of her new
country. "In one letter, she said she would never have been a success if we
hadn't brought her to America," Dooley said.

"She was the stereotypical hausfrau until her husband died," Karp said. "Then
she had to become in charge of her own affairs. She became a tough little
cookie. She didn't like injustice."

Woods owned five apartments in West Palm Beach between Southern and Forest Hill
boulevards and managed them herself. She repaired the plumbing, fixed the
windows and put up shutters.

Woods first hired Karp to evict one of her tenants, then trusted him to handle
her affairs. Stubbornly, she refused to buy health insurance or hire a handyman
to do the tough jobs.

"She was a feisty, tough lady," Karp said. "She wasn't looking for recognition.
She just wanted people to know that she appreciated the U.S."

tim_omeilia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran Final.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W); 1. Courtesy photo SELF-RELIANT: Maria Woods, shown in an
undated photo, took care of apartments she owned.  2. Maria Woods (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              401 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 6, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

IT'S ONLY FAIR THAT AMERICA ADAPT FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 214 words


In answer to a letter rejecting the idea that emergency personnel should speak
Spanish, because the "obligation" to speak English lies with immigrants
("Language no barrier if immigrants learn English," April 21), I'd like to say:
In an ideal world, immigrants should learn English before they come here; in an
ideal world, nobody should be forced by poverty to emigrate and become slaves in
a foreign country.

But this is not an ideal world. Hispanic immigration is growing because of the
deterioration of those countries' way of life. As for those who are almost
illiterate, or others whose circumstances don't allow them to go to school, the
responsibility if our system "needs" them to do the dirty work lies on us.
That's what the big corporations interested in the Hispanic market have been
doing for years - having bilingual people on their staffs.

Yes, we have to keep teaching English to the new generations. But there always
will be people who don't have the time or the ability to learn the language. So
as long as the Hispanic immigrants and tourists keep coming, and we profit from
their work and their business, we must learn how to serve, educate, inform,
minister, heal or discipline them in their own language.

AMPARO JARAMILLO-RESTREPO

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              402 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 26, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

VOLUNTEERS HELP GUATEMALANS SEEK JUSTICE IN THEIR COMMUNITIES

BYLINE: By MARCUS BRAZIEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Guatemalans aren't just immigrants, they're refugees, displaced by force from
their homes, Miguel Angel Chiquin-Yat, director of Lake Worth's Organization of
Maya People in Exile, said recently.

Human rights observer Lynne Purvis and Chiquin-Yat hosted a fund-raising and
informational dinner May 19 at St. Andrews Lutheran Church in Lake Worth. They
talked about the dreary plight and condition of the Guatemalan people.

Purvis, a Guatemalan Accompaniment Project volunteer, recently returned from a
10-month mission to Guatemala.

Guatemala is still recovering after a 36-year-long civil war that destroyed 85
to 90 percent of the indigenous population, Purvis said.

The war, lasting through 1996, was at a climatic point in the early 1980s,
according to the Network in Solidarity with the People of Guatemala.

Purvis said one of the many issues that the country is trying to overcome is
that several massacre victims and their families are suing military leaders who
were responsible for the genocide of the indigenous people.

Because the Guatemalans fear their military, many have requested international
accompaniers, such as GAP, to oversee the return to justice.

The accompanying role in Guatemala was passive, Purvis said. Her job was to be
an escort for their protection, she said. If a human rights violation were to
occur, a GAP member would report it to the United States or the Guatemalan
government.

Although the country is enduring hardship, Purvis remembers the sense of
community that's not often found in the U.S.

Community to the Guatemalan people "is not based on something in particular,"
Purvis said. Community to them is "sharing your entire life with people around
you. People in these villages go to school with each other, work with each other
and develop this unbreakable relationship," she said.

Chiquin-Yat said he can still hear the words of his ancestors in his ear. "No
matter what happens, continue to bring the information about Guatemala to the
light," he said.

And that is his main goal.

marcus_braziel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lake Worth / LantanaManalapan and South Palm Beach

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              403 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 June 11, 2004 Friday MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

CONSULS RILED THAT WORKERS SERVED PAPERS AT CRASH

BYLINE: By CONNIE PILOTO and WILL VASH Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 750 words


The Guatemalan consul and an attorney for the Mexican Consulate were outraged
Thursday that immigration agents served seven workers with deportation notices
at the site of a fatal accident in St. Lucie County this week.

"It's completely inappropriate to do that at the scene of an accident where two
of their friends were killed," said Guatemalan Consul Cristy Andrino. "They
should concentrate on finding terrorists, not immigrants who are here to work
and harvest their land."

The Guatemalan workers were given notices to appear before an immigration judge
in Miami after being interviewed when the minivan they were riding in overturned
Tuesday night on Interstate 95. The men were heading from West Palm Beach to New
Jersey, where they had planned to find work picking blueberries.

Nina Pruneda, spokeswoman for the Miami office of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said immigration agents were just doing their job.

"After interviewing the individuals, they were found to be in violation,"
Pruneda said. "We're tasked with enforcing the law. We are supposed to take
action, and that's what we did."

John DeLeon, a Miami-based attorney who consults with the Mexican Consulate,
said immigration agents' working with the Florida Highway Patrol is dangerous.

"It could lead to people running away from the scene of accidents and not
getting the medical attention they need," DeLeon said. "It could also lead to
witnesses of accidents not coming forward because the next thing they know,
they'll be scheduled for immigration hearings."

DeLeon is representing one of the families of a Mexican farmworker killed April
1 when a Ford Econoline van packed with 19 workers crashed on I-95 near Fort
Pierce.

While police continue to investigate Tuesday's single-vehicle crash, the
families of the two Guatemalan migrant workers are making arrangements to bury
their dead. But they don't have enough money.

Officials with the Consulate of Guatemala in Miami said Thursday they are
working with local agencies to collect enough money to send the bodies home.

"We're going to do everything we can to try and help the families," Andrino
said. "We're going to try and get them back to Guatemala."

Driver Aron Santizo Velazquez, 23, and passenger Ermogeles Cruz, 42, were killed
at the scene. Both died from blunt trauma to the head, according to autopsies by
the Treasure Coast Medical Examiner's Office.

Nelson Cruz, 23, remained in serious condition Thursday at St. Lucie Medical
Center. Oscar Ramirez, 22, was flown by helicopter to Holmes Regional Medical
Center in Melbourne in critical condition, but his name did not show up Thursday
in hospital records, a hospital official said.

The other passengers were: Saul Gutierez, Serepio Perez, Ricsrso Ramirez, Sergio
Ramirez, Miguel Perez, Santiago Cruz and Juan Gonzales. All the men in the van
were living in West Palm Beach, except Velazquez, who recently moved from West
Palm Beach to New Jersey.

Velazquez was driving a 1994 Ford Aerostar north on I-95 at 9 p.m. Tuesday when
he lost control of the minivan and it rolled over.

Traffic homicide investigators are trying to determine whether Velazquez, who
was not carrying identification, had a valid driver license or vehicle
insurance, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Tim Frith said. The van was designed to
hold seven people, he said. Police also are investigating whether alcohol
contributed to the crash.

The Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation also is looking
into the accident, although Frith and several passengers said Velazquez was not
working as contractor.

"If the driver is not a Florida labor contractor, DBPR would have no
jurisdiction," said spokeswoman Meg Shannon. "However, if there was indication
that a driver was working on behalf of an FLC (farm labor contractor), meaning
the FLC hired him to transport workers, then that would actually be unlicensed
activity and we would have jurisdiction."

The passengers said Velazquez had recently bought the minivan in North Carolina
and was trying to earn extra money by charging the men $50 apiece to take them
to New Jersey, where he also was planning to work.

Staff writer John Lantigua contributed to this story.

connie_piloto@pbpost.com

will_vash@pbpost.com

To make contributions

Anyone who wants to contribute money to help with the funeral arrangements can
send checks to:

Consulate of Guatemala

1101 Brickel Ave.

Suite 1003-S

Miami, Fla. 33131

PHONE: (305) 679-9945

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              404 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 13, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

LANGUAGE SCHOOLS LANGUISH AFTER SEPT. 11 SLASHES ROLLS

BYLINE: By PAMELA PEREZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Turkish immigrant Kazim Bezlikli sought American-style justice when he called
police to get his deposit back from the language school where he registered his
younger brother for English lessons.

"I'm gonna shut down the school," said Bezlikli, who filed a criminal complaint
against the Language Exchange International School in April. "It's really
ridiculous. They're really ripping people off."

Bezlikli wanted to buy his brother a package of English lessons before his
brother came to stay with family in the United States. But the Pompano Beach
resident decided to cancel his $1,600 debit card deposit after his brother's
visa was denied. He has not received his money back.

The state attorney's office declined to prosecute the case, saying it is a civil
matter. Bezlikli said he now plans to sue the school.

"The story of the visa is not new to us," said Connie Paladino, the school's
founder and president.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, language schools across the country saw enrollments
drop dramatically, according to school owners and teacher associations. The
decline shadowed a decrease in U.S. visas issued to foreign students, who
typically fill the classrooms of privately operated language schools.

Since the attacks, the Language Exchange International School has been paying
back pre-registered students who have been denied student visas to the United
States.

The school, at 500 N.E. Spanish River Blvd., is gradually paying $100,000 worth
of refunds through a disaster loan granted by the federal Small Business
Administration to schools that have suffered decreased enrollments since the
attacks.

"Right after 9/11 we got hit really bad," Paladino said. "It absolutely crippled
us."

The school's student body dropped from 800 students before Sept. 11 to 36
students. School administrators were forced to shut down campuses in Tampa, Fort
Lauderdale and Virginia. Administrators attempted to battle the dwindling
enrollment by consolidating instruction at the Boca Raton campus.

The school teaches about 35 languages.

As university enrollment of foreign students has decreased, according to
anecdotal evidence from administrators, language schools have fared worse
because their students are mostly of foreign students with visas.

Enrollment has begun to rebound, but too slowly, experts say.

Nationally, enrollment has grown by only one-half percent, according to an
Institute of International Education report for 2002 and 2003.

"Usually, it's a 5 percent growth rate," said Ursula Oaks, spokeswoman for the
Association of International Educators. "Students aren't even trying to come
here. There is a great deal of concern that the United States has granted less
visas."

The number of student visas issued had been climbing steadily; it rose from from
251,565 in 1998 to 293,357 in 2001. But the number of student visas decreased to
214,378 in 2003, according to the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs.
The number of student visa applications rejected also increased from 23 percent
in 2001 to 25 percent in 2003.

But State Department officials blame the decline on a drop in the number of
student visa applications submitted.

"This is a function of the declining number of applications, not increased
refusals," said Stuart Patt, a State Department spokesman.

When applications are denied, it's typically because "they don't convince us
they are going to go home as soon as they are done with their studies," he said.

The reason for the decline in applications may simply be a decline in interest,
Patt said.

"Since 9/11, people don't want to come to the U.S.," Patt said. "Other countries
are marketing more aggressively for these students."

Many students instead have chosen to study in other English-speaking nations,
such as England, New Zealand and Australia, because they feel safer in those
countries, State Department officials said.

Language schools throughout the county have been affected by the enrollment
slump.

"It's not the same as it was before," said Daniel Figueredo, owner of ABC
Language School in West Palm Beach.

"Now we don't get any money before we know they are coming," Figueredo said
about fees from foreign students. "We lost about $400,000 in that alone."

The school scrambles for students, teaching groups of only eight or 10 students.

"We were used to 250 students," Figueredo said.

To avoid closing, the school has condensed its office space and increased its
visibility by moving to a first-floor storefront on Olive Avenue.

Recently, the bulk of new students at the Language Exchange International School
has come from group-rate contracts with multinational corporations and foreign
governments. This month, an Italian Army unit is taking a monthlong intensive
course. A contract with the Philippines is expected to bring a group of nurses
to the Boca Raton school.

"Maybe the only reason we're surviving is because we're not that big," Paladino
said. "If we have to pull 90 hours a week we'll do it."

Federal officials predict the numbers will begin increasing soon.

"We think it might be up a little bit next year," the State Department's Patt
said. "We're going to have to wait and see."

Language schools are starting to advertise for students among South Florida's
diverse community. With every student, Paladino said, the school is a step
closer to getting out of debt and refunding deposits for canceled registrations
to former clients like Bezlikli, whose brother remains in Turkey.

"The bottom line is we're not refusing to pay him," Paladino said. "He will get
his money back."

Staff researcher Krista Pegnetter contributed to this story.

pam_perez@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Connie Paladino (mug)

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              405 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       June 14, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS' TRAGEDY NATION'S

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 275 words


An Interstate 95 van crash near Fort Pierce in April killed nine Mexican migrant
farmworkers, prompting calls for legal reforms.

So state lawmakers passed new requirements for licensing contractors who
transport workers to fields, and state regulators stepped up inspections of
vehicles. The changes were welcome but also limited. Farmworker advocates warned
that more tragedies were inevitable, and Tuesday that, sadly, proved true.

A Ford Aerostar minivan overloaded with 11 migrants rolled over on I-95 in St.
Lucie County, killing two. The men, all illegal immigrants and most from
Guatemala, had worked the season in Florida and were on their way to New Jersey
to pick blueberries. Federal agents actually showed up at the accident scene to
serve deportation papers to the men - crass enforcement of a failed immigration
policy.

A few more hours up the road, and it would have been Georgia's tragedy, or the
Carolinas', or New Jersey's. In reality, however, it is America's, and it
underscores the futility of addressing a national problem with the limited
reforms of state legislators.

The nation needs a federal guest-worker plan, such as the AgJOBS Act proposed by
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., that would allow legal status and legitimacy for
immigrants who are essential to the U.S. economy. Americans need to recognize
that any system that values cheap labor too much is sure to exploit it, and also
that fairness has a price that is worth paying. No legislative act can protect
migrant workers from all traffic accidents, but real reforms can lift the
conditions of subservience that leave them vulnerable to abuse and tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              406 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 23, 2004 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

TEEN FORCED TO LEAVE U.S., WITHOUT PARENTS

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


Sixteen-year-old Helene Jensen flies to her native Denmark Thursday, leaving
behind her parents, her dog, her boyfriend, her junior year at Dwyer High School
and the experimental drug that keeps her well.

She's not leaving by choice. If she stays she'll be illegal, then maybe she
would be deported.

No one knows when she'll be allowed to come back. Maybe two years, maybe five.

Through a quirk in immigration law, her family's attorney says, her parents can
stay, her older, U.S.-born sister can stay. Helene must go.

"I think it's unfair. It's not fair to take a child from its parents," Helene
said Tuesday, sitting on the living room couch, stroking the neck of her
terrier, Little Bit. She is keeping a smile on her face.

She fears the Danish winter will accelerate her juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, a
disease of the joints that affects 75,000 teens in America, even if they were
born in Denmark.

She awoke one morning more than two years ago with a sore and swollen left knee.
Soon other joints began to ache. After a succession of bone scans, MRIs and
X-rays, a specialist diagnosed her ailment. Traditional drug treatment didn't
help or made her sick.

For six months she hobbled on crutches, in pain. Her condition has improved
dramatically since she joined the clinical trials of a new drug made by Abbott
Laboratories. She can dance and run. But if she's in Denmark, she can't continue
the trial because she won't be here for the testing and measurements.

"I still hope for a miracle," said her mother, Winnie. "If people want things to
be done quickly, it can be done."

"The law is flawed," said her father, John. "When I tell people the story, they
say it can't be true."

Jensen, 49, and his family came to the United States, for the second time, in
1997 on a work visa. He is vice president for operations for Teeters Agency and
Stevedoring at the Port of Palm Beach. Helene, then 9, attended Eisenhower
Elementary, not knowing a single word of English. Now she speaks without a trace
of an accent. "Thank you, Eisenhower," her mother said.

"We love this country. It's been very good to us," said Jensen, who studied for
a year in high school in Geneva, Ill., and worked in Connecticut for five years
in the 1980s, when daughter Charlotte was born. "When I came here, it felt like
home," he said.

His visa, which allows his wife and children to stay here as well, expired in
April. Their American-born daughter, Charlotte, 21, sponsored her parents in
their application to become permanent residents. They didn't realize Helene
would not be included because she is neither a spouse, child or parent of
Charlotte.

"She's none of the above. It's such an anomaly in the law," said Maralyn Leaf, a
Miami immigration lawyer who represents the family. "Nowhere else in the entire
body of immigration law does it expect a person to send their child away."

A spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said no comment could
be made on an individual case.

The Jensens also have written local legislators. "It's a really unfortunate
situation," said Jill Greenberg, spokeswoman for Florida Sen. Bob Graham. She
said Graham's office is studying a legislative fix but it will take time.

"There's been a lot of anger, a lot of frustration," Jensen said.

"A lot of crying," Helene said.

Her bags are packed. Thursday the New York Yankees will lose a fervent fan ("My
favorite teams are the Yankees and whoever is playing the Red Sox," she said).
It'll take about 24 hours to reach Copenhagen via Newark. Then there's a
four-hour train ride to her grandmother's village of Langaa. Helene will take
two months' worth of medicine with her. The family is uncertain when she can
visit.

"I wish someone could push the magic button," Jensen said. "I know it's doable."

- tim_omeilia@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C); SHANNON O'BRIEN/Staff Photographer 1. Helene Jensen kisses
her dog, Little Bit, as she sits with her mom, Winnie, who is holding
Tinkerbell. Helene, who is being forced to leave her parents behind and return
to Denmark, has juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and relies on an experimental drug
she can only get here. (Did not run MSL) 2. Helene Jensen, sitting between her
parents, Winnie and John, will leave for Denmark Thursday. Winnie and John are
being sponsored by their American-born daughter Charlotte to become permanent
residents. (Only ran MSL).

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              407 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 26, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

REUNITE THE JENSENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 378 words


If only Helene Jensen were Cuban and related to a major-league baseball player.
Instead, she's Danish, and the daughter of an administrator for a company based
at the Port of Palm Beach. The family of New York Yankees pitcher Jose Contreras
left Cuba this week and can stay. But because of a silly immigration
technicality, Helene had to go back to Denmark, leaving her family and the life
she has built.

John Jensen has come to the United States twice on work visas. When he was here
during the 1980s, his wife had a daughter, Charlotte. Helene, who is 16, was
born in Denmark. She came with her family when Mr. Jensen arrived in 1997 on his
second visa, and the family settled in Palm Beach Gardens. As an American
citizen, Charlotte is acting as sponsor so her parents can become permanent
residents. Immigration law, however, says only her parents, spouse or children
can stay past the April expiration of Mr. Jensen's visa. As the family's lawyer
says, Helene is "none of the above." (Another Danish-born sister has a work
visa.) On Thursday, when Helene should have been anticipating her junior year at
Dwyer High School, she left for Denmark.

A needless family separation would have been reason enough to call this case
outrageous. But Helene also suffers from juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, which
causes painful swelling in her joints. At one point, she had to be on crutches.
Her condition has responded, however, to a drug she has taken as part of a
clinical trial. In Denmark, she can't be monitored, so she no longer can
participate. She left with a two-month supply of medicine.

A spokesman for U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, said his office has been
in touch with the State Department, which is supposed to notify the American
Embassy in Copenhagen. "We want to stress that because of her condition, she is
better served here," the spokesman said. "Our goal is to expedite her legal
return." The family has some legal options, but as Winnie Jensen said, "If
people want things done quickly, it can be done." Granted, there's a lot going
on in the world, but correcting this injustice doesn't require anything more
than someone breaking through the bureaucracy. Dwyer students go back to school
on Aug. 11. Helene should be with them.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              408 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 5, 2004 Monday FINAL EDITION

POLITICIANS NEED TO HELP GET DEPORTED TEEN BACK

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 121 words


What a heartbreaking story to read about Helene Jensen, the teen who was
deported because of a "quirk in immigration law" ("Teen forced to leave U.S.,
without parents," June 23). This young teen has been deported and split up from
her family because of a "quirk"?

Where is the common sense? Where are Gov. Bush, Sen. Bill Nelson and Sen. Bob
Graham in all this? What a shame that we are allowing illegal immigrants who get
to our shores in the middle of the night on high-speed boats to stay, but a
young girl who needs medicine available only in the United States is deported.
Why don't the governor and the senators step up and bring this family back
together? It is the right thing to do.

Z. SZUBER

Tequesta

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              409 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 11, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

DEUTSCH BORDERS ON THE ABSURD

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 721 words


Americans won't solve the nation's immigration problem until we are able to see
it with an honest eye.

The busboy who clears the table, the maid who cleans the hotel room, the
farmworkers on their way to the fields - we look at them, but we do not see
them. We do not want to. It is a grand paradox of history that a nation that
owes its existence to immigrants so routinely denies their existence.

Maintaining the national blind spot allows us to plead ignorance to disturbing
things. Last week, before a Senate Judicial subcommittee, witnesses testified
that as many as 50,000 immigrants are living here as slaves. Traffickers smuggle
them into the country to work in brothels, factories and farms. We certainly
don't want to know too much about that.

The election season adds demagoguery to denial. Candidates take positions to
appease focus groups and voting blocs without regard for reality or common
sense. When it comes to immigration, many politicians lock themselves in an
ideological safe house and stay away from the windows until the election is
over.

Immigration issue is alien concept

Which brings me to Peter Deutsch, the Democratic congressman from Fort
Lauderdale who is seeking his party's nomination for Bob Graham's Senate seat.
He stopped by The Post last week for an interview with the editorial board. A
Yale-educated attorney with 12 years in Congress, Rep. Deutsch brought a manila
folder that contained 10 typed, single-spaced pages listing his accomplishments.
The word immigration does not appear.

I asked him what he thought of the AgJOBS bill for immigrant workers that Sen.
Graham is sponsoring and that may come to a vote this month. Rep. Deutsch said
he was unfamiliar with it.

I explained that it was a bipartisan plan to bring millions of illegal immigrant
farmworkers into the system by establishing an incremental path to legal status.
Rep. Deutsch said he opposes guest-worker programs, creating levels of
"sub-citizenship" and, of course, amnesty. He comes from a family of immigrant
heritage and believes in "playing by the rules."

What would he do about the 300,000 illegal immigrants working in Florida
agriculture who are essential to the state's economy because they take low-pay,
no-benefit jobs Americans don't want? He said that with 5 percent unemployment,
employers could find American workers to replace illegals.

"Do you know any American who wants to earn a living picking tomatoes?" I asked.

"Well," he said, "some Americans would, if wages were higher."

"How much are you willing to pay for a pound of tomatoes then?" I asked.

"That would have to be determined by the marketplace," he said.

Rep. Deutsch said the immigration problem is one of enforcement and border
control. Government has to mean what it says and prevent immigrants from coming
illegally.

"What do we do about the 300,000 already in the state?"

Inspections, immigration checks and deportations. "Send people back."

"How do you remove 300,000 people from Florida?"

"By plane or by boat," he said.

Forget college; send kids to fields

So, while Sen. Graham and more than 60 Senate colleagues work on a law to deal
honestly and realistically with an illegal U.S. workforce of about 7 million,
Rep. Deutsch proposes a human roundup the likes of which the world has never
seen. The United States can at long last solve its immigration problems by
filling 7 million seats on boats and airplanes.

Once that's done, Rep. Deutsch can begin raising wages for 7 million menial jobs
so Americans will take them. By the time the last airplane lands in Mexico City
with the last load of illegals, American families will have adapted to a
revolutionary new job market. Rather than send their kids to college, they will
send them to pick tomatoes, bus tables and clean toilets.

That is the vision of America Rep. Deutsch would bring to the United States
Senate. It is a remarkably myopic view, even by our standards.

In a recent column, I mistakenly wrote that the Bush administration sent out a
tax rebate last year. Taxpayers received the rebate in 2001. My thanks to James
Haberkorn of Palm Beach Gardens for pointing out the error.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com. Randy Schultz's column will return next week.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              410 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 15, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

WELCOME BACK, HELENE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 190 words


Showing that even the bureaucracy can respond, the Department of Homeland
Security has granted a "humanitarian parole" that will allow a 16-year-old
Danish girl to rejoin her family in the United States.

Helene Jensen of Palm Beach Gardens found herself caught in an immigration law
technicality. An older sister, born here, is sponsoring their parents for
permanent residency. So John and Winnie Jensen have been able to stay past
April, when his work visa expired. But Helene could not. Three weeks ago, she
had to return to Denmark.

Because Helene's juvenile rheumatoid arthritis has responded so well to a drug
that is available only in the United States, her family - with lots of help from
U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale - sought the humanitarian parole that
the government properly granted. After some paperwork, she soon will be reunited
with her family.

This story shows what can happen when the system takes time to focus on one
immigration case. Unfortunately, not everyone is lucky enough to have publicity
and a congressman on her side. Helene Jensen deserved her happy ending. No
doubt, so do others.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              411 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 30, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

RESPONSE IN PORT INCIDENT 'APPROPRIATE,' FOLEY SAYS

BYLINE: By DWAYNE ROBINSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


A day after the Port of Palm Beach was put on high alert because of a perceived
terrorist threat, U.S. Rep. Mark Foley visited the Coast Guard station in
Riviera Beach, where a new building will open in September that will house
immigration, customs and Coast Guard officials.

Foley, R-West Palm Beach, whose visit was previously scheduled, was well aware
of the situation Wednesday in which the port and nearby streets were closed
because Riviera Beach police and port officials believed they had a suspected
terrorist. The incident appeared to be a case of mistaken identity. Foley said
the authorities acted appropriately.

"I think it demonstrates we're on high alert," he said. "We're not going to let
what happened on Sept. 11 be repeated because of our feeling of 'let's not
frighten the neighbors.' "

The new building, called the U.S. Border Patrol Station, will help officials
deal more quickly with potential terrorists, said Art Bullock, the head local
border patrol agent, who will run the office. The border patrol is now part of
the Department of Homeland Security.

At the Port of Palm Beach office, which now houses immigration and customs, it
can take days or weeks to get information back from the FBI on a suspect,
immigrant or any other person, Bullock said. With the new facility, and its
upgraded technology, they'll be able to do it in two hours or less.

"We'll be able to determine if a person is a criminal, if he's on a terrorist
watch list . . . there's just a ton of things we'll be able to do," Bullock
said.

The new office, more than six times the size of the current one, will include
more than 30 officers, including field agents, investigators and supervisors.

Aside from the U.S. Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, other
agencies to occupy the new building include a small Coast Guard detachment.

The Wednesday incident started when a driver was stopped for speeding by police.
Two of the three men in the car were of Middle Eastern descent, and one of their
names came up as a "person of interest to law enforcement" when checked with
national and state crime databases.

Police refused to provide a copy of the speeding ticket Thursday. The city
attorney wasn't sure whether the department could release the names yet.

Riviera Beach police spokeswoman Rose Anne Brown said that once the name is
entered into the databases, if it comes back with a hit, you need to notify the
agencies that come up along with it.

"If the car had not been speeding, we never would have stopped it," she said.

Brown said that during the traffic stop, the men's answers to questions changed,
as if answers were made up. She would not elaborate.

Foley said he didn't think officials overreacted.

"It was exactly appropriate for the times we live in," Foley said.

Foley was asked whether he thought the anti-terrorism plan worked. Yes, he said,
had it been in place before, "we may have caught (Sept. 11 hijacker) Mohamed
Atta back when he was in Delray Beach."

Staff writer Scott McCabe contributed to this story.

dwayne_robinson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              412 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 8, 2004 Sunday FINAL EDITION

MATH, SCIENCE: FOREIGN CONCEPTS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 733 words


The prevailing stereotype about immigrants and the schools hasn't changed much
in the past century:

Immigrants are a drain on education. They require instruction in English. They
must undergo cultural adjustment. Many are behind on basic health care when they
enroll. They need immunizations or eyeglasses or subsidized lunches. Immigrant
children cost schools money that could be better spent elsewhere.

That's the stereotype you've heard. Now, how about one that you hardly ever
hear:

Immigrant children are the best math and science students in the United States.

The National Foundation for American Policy, a nonpartisan research group based
in Arlington, Va., came to that conclusion after studying the backgrounds of the
top U.S. high school students. Researchers were stunned by what they found.

It turns out that 60 percent of the nation's top science students and 65 percent
of the top math students are the children of immigrants. The study found that
foreign-born students make up 50 percent of the 2004 U.S. Math Olympiad's top
scorers, 38 percent of the U.S. Physics Team and 25 percent of the Intel Science
Talent Search finalists.

Many of these young scholars - about 25 percent - wound up here because their
parents came to America as international students. Many have parents who entered
the country on H-1B visas, which the government uses to recruit talented
professionals. In fact, 10 of the Math Olympiad top scorers have parents who
received H-1B visas; seven have parents who were born in the United States.

But Stuart Anderson, the NFAP executive director, says it would be a mistake to
think that the high number of brilliant immigrant kids is solely the result of
selectively recruiting their high-skilled professional parents. Mr. Anderson
points out that the "general openness of the United States' immigration system"
also is responsible for bringing top scorers here. Some came as family-sponsored
immigrants; some even came as refugees.

"These findings provide evidence that maintaining an open policy toward skilled
professionals, international students and legal immigration is vital to
America's technological and scientific standing in the world," Mr. Anderson
says. "If opponents of immigration had succeeded over the past 20 years,
two-thirds of the most outstanding future American scientists and mathematicians
would not be here today."

Actually, the National Science Foundation came to this conclusion some time ago.
The NSF surveyed its ranks and found that foreign-born professionals make up
more than 50 percent of the nation's engineers with advanced degrees and about
45 percent of the top math and computer scientists.

What makes these numbers more remarkable is the size of the H-1B program: It is
very, very small. The visa holders make up less than 0.04 percent of the U.S.
population. Even the nation's professional soccer leagues aren't this reliant on
elite imported talent.

The record of academic achievement for these young students is not all that
mysterious. They typically embody the traits that have made immigrants
successful in other generations and other centuries. They come with a strong
work ethic. They come determined. They believe that America offers them
opportunities that their homelands didn't. They are driven by the dream. And
most often, they have strong family support.

While American kids are punching Game Boys or TV remotes, immigrant kids really
are doing homework at the kitchen table or research on the Internet. There's
something to these stereotypes, too.

In the wake of 9/11, the government has made student and work visas harder to
get. Larry Summers, the president of Harvard University, sent a letter to
Secretary of State Colin Powell and Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge warning
that new restrictions jeopardize the nation's competitive position in
technology. Universities are feeling the economic hit. International students
have been pumping about $13 billion into the United States each year, but their
enrollment at universities was down by about half last year.

As the government tightens controls on the borders, it can't forget how to
welcome the people we want and need. Immigration is still the regenerating
lifeblood that makes America what it always has been.

Dan Moffett is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address
is dan_moffett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              413 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 10, 2004 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CAUGHT AFTER LANDING ON HUTCHINSON

BYLINE: By JILL TAYLOR Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 175 words


Authorities rounded up 20 immigrants from three countries Monday after a 25-foot
boat came ashore on Hutchinson Island north of Stuart Beach.

"Everybody's been out beating the bushes," said Art Bullock, the Border Patrol
agent in charge, from a command post set up Monday morning at the Hutchinson
Island Fire Station. Local and federal officials apprehended the immigrants.

All of the passengers appeared to be in good condition. Bullock said it's
believed they made the crossing from the Bahamas, which is frequently used as a
staging area for those trying to smuggle passengers into the United States.

All the passengers were being taken to the Krome Avenue Detention Center in
Miami, where they will have hearings and face possible deportation.

Any who previously have been deported could face criminal charges, officials
said.

Bullock said eight passengers were from Haiti, seven were from Jamaica and three
were from Guyana. The nationality of two men stopped later in day was not
immediately available.

jill_taylor@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              414 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 27, 2004 Friday FINAL EDITION

CLEAR LANGUAGE BARRIER TO PROTECT STATE WORKERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 433 words


No mystery surrounds Florida's high death rate for workers. Where there is rapid
growth, extensive construction, agriculture, unbridled demand for cheap labor
and inadequate government oversight, unsafe job sites will spread.

But The Post's analysis Sunday of state data from 1992 through 2002 leaves
little doubt that Florida is one of the most dangerous workplaces. The study
found that 3,904 workers died here during that period, and that in 2002,
Florida's 354 deaths made it the third-deadliest state for workers - behind
California and Texas - with a fatality rate of 4.4 per 100,000 workers, far
worse than the other populous states. Worker death rates in Palm Beach, Martin
and St. Lucie counties were much higher than the state average during the
10-year period.

Employment of illegal immigrants, who most often are Hispanics, contributes
greatly to the high death rate in Florida, as it does in California and Texas.
Undocumented workers are willing to take the worst jobs and can be easily
exploited by disreputable employers. Immigrants often do not receive adequate
training and, fearing problems because of their status, rarely complain. Simple
safety devices, such as seat belts, could have prevented dozens of deaths in
agriculture van accidents, but farm workers have been powerless to demand
protection. Language barriers alone are hazards on the job. Construction workers
who don't understand instructions or warnings are vulnerable to accidents that
English speakers readily avoid.

The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration claims progress in
improving safety in South Florida - worker deaths are running about 20 percent
lower than in recent years - by increasing enforcement inspections and promoting
employer education. OSHA has begun some promising outreach efforts toward
Hispanics, particularly Mexicans, who are about four times more likely to die on
the job than U.S.-born workers.

While the early results are encouraging, they are inconclusive. Florida never
has enforced its insurance laws - which could generate revenue - let alone its
worker safety laws. Six years ago, Gov. Bush compromised the state's role when
he tore apart the Department of Labor and Employment Security, cut 3,800 of
5,700 full-time jobs and eliminated many programs. The ideological zeal to
dismantle bureaucracy made casualties of regulators, instructors and inspectors.

Protecting workers still comes down to enforcement, education and stiff
penalties for offenders. To improve Florida's safety record, government has to
work as hard as the laborers most at risk.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              415 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 28, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

BORDERLINE SECURITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 396 words


Nearly three years after 9/11, Americans are likely to assume that border
security is significantly improved. Unless they are Americans who are border
guards, and then they tend to believe otherwise.

A survey of 500 border agents and inspectors found that only 34 percent were
satisfied with the tools and training the Homeland Security Department provides.
Two-thirds said they were poorly prepared to keep terrorists from getting into
the country, their most important mission. About 44 percent said the nation was
less safe or no safer than before the attacks.

The negative feedback from the front lines was particularly unsettling given the
recent report from the 9/11 commission confirming that all 19 hijackers entered
the country illegally. If border agents and immigration officials had received
the better training and tools they still seek, those violations could have been
detected. As many as seven of the 19 entered with fraudulent passports, which
the right technology could have uncovered. U.S. intelligence had connected at
least three to terrorist groups. Border inspectors could have caught that, too,
had the government updated the names on the terrorist watch lists. Perhaps the
most damaging lapse was allowing ringleader Mohamed Atta back into the country
after he had overstayed a tourist visa.

Technology has been slow to come online. Homeland Security officials cite the
growing archive of digital fingerprints and photographs of foreign visitors as
an important screening resource. The United States and its allies are working
together to make passports harder to forge. But making information accessible is
still a problem. Border officers complain that databases aren't as integrated or
reliable as they need to be. The goal is to run one computer profile of a
traveler from one comprehensive system and quickly obtain all available
information. That system doesn't exist, and security will suffer until it does.

Homeland Security administrators dismiss the survey and the agents' complaints
as unfair criticism of a rapidly improving network. The department points to
hundreds of criminals and illegal travelers it has stopped. But one of the cruel
lessons from 9/11 is that some of the most dangerous visitors are those that
come undetected through the front door. The border agents are saying that door
still is left ajar too often.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              416 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              May 4, 2002 Saturday saturday FINAL EDITION edition

IMMIGRANT GETS DYING WISH TO BECOME AMERICAN CITIZEN
 %

BYLINE: By Mark Bixler Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 15A 15A

LENGTH: 375 words words

DATELINE: ATLANTA atlanta


Nurses wheeled Valentina Bukshteyn, an 83-year-old Russian immigrant, past
relatives and hospice workers and important people in business suits. Then the
nurses stepped aside.

At 11:40 Friday morning, Valentina Bukshteyn realized her dying wish.  wish.

"All my children and grandchildren are here," she said. "I want to be like them,
an American citizen."

Bukshteyn took the oath in the hospice lobby as two dozen people looked on. Her
son Vladimir nodded when she pledged to support and defend the Constitution. Her
granddaughters beamed. Everyone chuckled when she got to the part when citizens
swear to "bear arms" and "perform noncombatant service in the armed forces."

They grinned after she said "so help me God" in Russian.

Bukshteyn was born in the former Soviet Union in 1918. She married an architect
and worked for years as a dispatcher for the major power company in Leningrad,
now known again as St. Petersburg. One daughter died of hunger during the siege
of the city by German troops in World War II. But she and her husband raised two
sons after the war.

One of the sons came to Atlanta in 1991. Vladimir wanted his mother to come,
too, but she worried about leaving the only home she had ever known, although
her husband had died in 1974.

Finally, in 1996, she boarded a plane and arrived in Atlanta with her other son,
Albert. They were admitted as refugees.

In March, doctors diagnosed Bukshteyn with terminal cancer.

Suddenly she was in Room 105 of the Embracing HospiceCare Inpatient Unit in
Snellville, Ga. Doctors and nurses ease her pain as the relentless disease
progresses.

The INS had scheduled a final interview in May on her citizenship application.
But hospice workers worried she wouldn't live that long. They called Rep. Bob
Barr and explained the circumstances. He called the INS in Atlanta. Within days,
the interview was done.

W. Fred Alexander, deputy director of the Atlanta INS office, walked into Room
105 on Friday morning.

He chatted with Vladimir Bukshteyn and gave his mother a package of documents.
"This is your certificate of citizenship," Alexander said. "You need to sign
your name right on the line."

"I can't see the line," she said in Russian. Her son showed her.

mbixler@ajc.com com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); KENT D. JOHNSON/Atlanta Journal-Constitution Valentina
Bukshteyn, 83, embraces her son Vladimir, who persuaded her to leave Russia in
1996.  1996.

                Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              417 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              August 17, 2003 Sunday sunday FINAL EDITION edition

MONEY SENT FROM U.S. BOLSTERS MEXICAN FAMILIES, ECONOMY economy

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: BUSINESS, business, Pg. 1F 1F

LENGTH: 721 words words

DATELINE: TULCINGO DEL VALLE, MEXICO mexico


Pungent red chili peppers, corn and sugar cane were once big cash crops here.

Now cash sent from the United States is the crop residents harvest most.

In a scene repeated in hundreds of communities all over Mexico, residents of
this remote township flock to money-transfer businesses every day to pick up
cash their immigrant relatives wire home from the United States.

The money rolls in from wherever the migrants, legal and illegal, have gone:
Houston, Chicago, Los Angeles, North Carolina, Georgia. And especially, New York
City.  city.

The infusion of U.S. dollars, called remittances, has become a godsend in
Tulcingo del Valle and other communities where homegrown jobs are scarce and
farmland lies fallow for miles around.

Remittances feed children and elderly parents, and make dreams happen by giving
birth to small businesses. They build houses and pay doctors' bills.

And they are proof of how tightly intertwined the U.S. economy and immigrants
have become.

The volume of remittances to Mexico has increased so much over the past decade
that during the first four months of 2003, they hit a record high of $2.74
billion. For the first time, remittances surpassed the $2.57 billion in foreign
investment that Mexico took in during those same four months.

Remittances are also a greater source of U.S. dollars in Mexico than all the
dollars earned through tourism. And Mexico is one of the world's top 10 tourist
destinations.

"The question is not why people come back here. The question is why they had to
go in the first place," said Osvaldo Rodriguez, 26, pouring steamed milk over
espresso at his new Internet cafe in Tulcingo del Valle, a town in Puebla state.

Rodriguez's young customers peck at keyboards, playing games, doing homework or
chatting with family and friends in the United States.

Rodriguez migrated illegally to New York City when he was 14. He eventually quit
working at restaurants in New York's Greenwich Village and returned to his
village to invest his savings.

Fluent in English, Rodriguez has decorated his Ciber Cafe with Kandinsky and
Miro prints. It's a touch of big-city sophistication in a town where chickens
roam unpaved roads and one of the main drags doubles as a riverbed when it
rains.

To meet basic needs, an estimated 1.5 million Mexican families depend
exclusively on remittances their family members send them from the U.S.

When he took office in 2000, Mexico's President Vicente Fox hoped remittances
could be used as leverage to spur job development and build infrastructure in
backward areas of Mexico. He suggested that the U.S. and Mexico together
establish a sweeping guest-worker program, so Mexicans wouldn't have to risk
their lives crossing the border for jobs Americans don't want.

Before Fox was president, he and a few other state governors started programs
that match money migrants send home as investments in small businesses or
infrastructure projects.

But nothing the U.S. and Mexican governments have done the past few decades has
stanched the overall flow of humanity northward in search of higher-paying work
in the U.S., where many know there are jobs to be had.

"When I left here I had nothing. When I came back, I built a house and my own
business. Now my children have more than I ever had," said Victor Velasquez, 41,
who was an undocumented employee at the Astrodome in Houston in 1980 before
moving on to wash dishes and prepare salads in Manhattan.

Now Velasquez has a fleet of trucks for his bottled water delivery business and
four employees.

The quest for dollars doesn't always end in triumph.

Elisendo Cabanas, who lived on a withering farm just outside Tulcingo del Valle,
died in Texas in May.

Nineteen illegal immigrants suffocated when smugglers stuffed them into a truck
trailer so they could be secretly taken to Houston.

"He had a sick child who was in the hospital twice. That's why he went," said
Refugio Gonzalez, 62, Cabanas' mother.

She's taken in her son's widow and his 3-year-old son and 10-month-old daughter.

Gonzalez has a U.S. visa that's a ticket to live with sons in Houston who are
legal residents. But she doesn't want to leave Elisendo's children.

"On the one hand, they comfort me," she said, weeping. "On the other, looking at
them makes me sad."

sferriss@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Osvaldo Rodriguez (left) used money he made working in
restaurants in the United States to set up his Ciber Cafe in his hometown of
Tulcingo del Valle.  valle.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              418 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

          September 3, 2003 Wednesday wednesday FINAL EDITION edition

5,000 AGENTS WILL BOLSTER AIR MARSHALS IF RISKS GROW grow

BYLINE: By BOB DART Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 1A 1A

LENGTH: 792 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


The Department of Homeland Security will reorganize to make 5,000 additional
armed federal agents available for commercial flights at times of heightened
danger, Secretary Tom Ridge announced Tuesday.

These cross-trained Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents will normally be
assigned to other duties but would reinforce the sky marshal corps in case of
specific threats against airlines, Ridge said.

Ridge also announced that most travelers at U.S. borders will soon encounter
only one federal agent, rather than the three that many now face. A single agent
will assume the duties of an immigration inspector, customs agent and
agriculture inspector. If this primary inspector has suspicions about a
traveler, a secondary inspection will be performed by an agent trained to
respond to terrorism.  terrorism.

"The three separate faces of government and the many inefficiencies that go with
it will soon be gone," said Ridge. "We will have one face in one uniform - a
single officer trained for primary inspection as well as how to determine who
needs to go through secondary inspections."

Nearly two years after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Ridge said
readiness has risen to "the highest level of protection this nation has ever
known."

In announcing changes in his agency, however, Ridge acknowledged that the job is
never done and that diligence must be constantly maintained.

"We can never guarantee that we are free from the possibility of terrorist
attacks, but we can say this: We are more secure and better prepared than we
were two years ago," said Ridge in a speech to the American Enterprise
Institute, a conservative think tank.

"In homeland security, we have to be right thousands of times a day," he said.
"A terrorist only has to be right once."

The changes were cautiously embraced by David Stempler, president of the Air
Travelers Association.

"I'm glad that we will have the opportunity to put more agents in the air. We do
need more air marshals," said Stempler. "But I don't know if we're borrowing
from Peter to pay Paul. Are we pulling people from immigration and customs who
are needed there? If we need more people, we need more people."

The number of sky marshals is classified. There are about 35,000 commercial
flights per day in the country, according to the Federal Aviation
Administration.

As part of the changes in an evolving department, the air marshals program is
being moved from the Transportation Security Administration to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

In his speech, Ridge looked back over the past two years and how the nation has
come to depend on a Department of Homeland Security that was not even imagined
on Sept. 10, 2001.

Since the creation of the Cabinet-level agency that he heads, Ridge said, "we've
made significant progress toward shoring the necessary layers of homeland
security that have helped make America safer."

But Democrats in Congress have questioned whether the new agency is doing
enough.

In August, for instance, there was criticism when the department asked to move
$104 million from the air marshals budget to help cover other program costs of
the Transportation Security Administration. In response to Ridge's announcement
on Tuesday, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., said the reorganization was an attempt
to mask serious deficiencies in the air marshals program - such as a shortage of
funding.

"First, they were going to cut air marshals because of hotel costs, then they
were going to cut training because of a budget strain, now they are blurring the
lines between air marshals, customs and immigration," said Maloney, who
questioned whether phasing air marshals out of TSA is part of an effort to save
money.

"We need professionals specifically guarding airliners, just as we need
professionals specifically guarding the borders," she said.

However, Ridge said "there are little or no budgetary implications" in the
reorganization.

Although their exact number is classified, thousands of undercover, armed air
marshals fly every day on commercial airlines. They are trained and empowered to
use their weapons to protect an aircraft against hijackers and other threats.
Before the Sept. 11 hijackings, there were reportedly only 32 sky marshals, but
their numbers have seen an estimated hundredfold increase since.

"We are safer because we have layered defenses around air travel - everywhere
from the curb to the cockpit," said Ridge. "This includes measures to arm our
pilots and harden cockpit doors; the expansion of the federal air marshal
service to accompany travelers on flights; thousands of passenger and baggage
screeners better trained to do their jobs; and federal security officers to
oversee our airports."

bdart@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              419 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              January 11, 2004 Sunday sunday FINAL EDITION edition

BUSH TO SEEK GOODWILL FROM LATIN LEADERS leaders

BYLINE: By BOB DEANS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 6A 6A

LENGTH: 450 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


President Bush travels Monday to Mexico in hopes that his sweeping plans to
reform immigration laws will help generate some badly needed goodwill when he
meets with Latin American leaders at the two-day Summit of the Americas.

Latin American leaders have been troubled by the slow pace of negotiations on a
hemispheric free-trade area originally slated to be in place a year from now,
new U.S. requirements to fingerprint and photograph foreign visitors, and deep
and lingering disagreements over the war in Iraq.

Bush, who took office three years ago promising to strengthen U.S. relations
with its neighbors, has instead pushed those goals toward the margins as he's
pressed a global anti-terror campaign with war in Afghanistan and Iraq, some
analysts say.  say.

The White House doesn't see it that way, contending that Bush has pursued trade
accords with Latin American countries, has worked to strengthen border security
with Mexico and counter-narcotics efforts in Colombia and has increased foreign
aid for combating poverty and AIDS in the region.

"This president has had a broad, deep and intensive engagement with Latin
America, and a lot has gotten done," national security adviser Condoleezza Rice
said Friday.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, however, many Latin American leaders have given up
hope that Bush would make hemispheric cooperation a priority.

"Since 9/11 there's been a sense that the United States has been distant, that
Latin America hasn't been treated as an important priority, at a time when Latin
America felt that it really needed an ally in the United States," said Peter
Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, an independent Washington group
that promotes close ties between the United States and its neighbors.

Thirty-two Latin American leaders plan to attend the summit, being held in the
industrial city of Monterrey.

Bush is to lay out his agenda in a speech at the summit on Monday. He'll also
have one-on-one meetings with Mexico's President Vicente Fox and, separately,
with Canada's new prime minister, Paul Martin, and the leaders of Brazil,
Argentina and Chile.

In Mexico City, Fox said Friday the region's unabated poverty and need for
development will be the top priorities at the summit.

"There is more poverty in Latin America, there is more unemployment. It is
urgent that we have solutions to this," Fox said.

Certain to be high on the agenda is Bush's proposal to create a new guest-worker
status for undocumented immigrants. He unveiled the plan last week and outlined
it in a brief telephone conversation with Fox.

Cox News Service correspondent Susan Ferriss in Mexico City contributed to this
story.

bdeans@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              420 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 8, 2003 Saturday FINAL EDITION

CORRECTION

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 94 words


Because of a reporting error, The Palm Beach Post Feb. 21 incorrectly said a
U.S. immigration judge examined secret evidence provided by the U.S. government
before ruling in October 2000 that Mazen Al-Najjar was not a threat to national
security. The judge did not consider secret evidence in making that ruling. The
error appeared in a story on the front page about the arrest on terrorism
charges of Sami Al-Arian, a former professor at the University of South Florida
in Tampa. Al-Najjar, who was deported last year, is the brother-in-law of
Al-Arian.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

TYPE: CORRECTION

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              421 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 31, 2003 Thursday FINAL EDITION

POLICY STILL WON'T FLOAT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 173 words


Before this week, U.S. immigration policy concerning Cuba was thought to have
loopholes big enough to drive a truck through.

On Sunday, the Coast Guard refuted that common wisdom by forcibly repatriating a
dozen balseros who were attempting to cross the Florida Straits in a green, 1951
Chevy truck made amphibious by a level of ingenuity America should be eager to
import. In particular, policy regarding Cuba has suffered from a lack of
ingenuity. The tired economic embargo has not helped Cubans. Washington has
created such absurdities as the wet foot/dry foot rule. A policy granting
admission to those on unusual watercraft hardly could be more arbitrary.

Political pandering on Cuba is equally tired. Sens. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., and
Bill Nelson, D-Fla., have let it be known that the repatriation outrages them.
Expressing outrage is easier than crafting a U.S. policy that effectively would
assist Cubans who want to employ their ingenuity to build a democracy at home
rather than create desperate methods for escape.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              422 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 12, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

NATION SHOULD WELCOME CUBANS WHO 'DRIVE' HERE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 95 words


A headline in the Feb. 5 Post reads, "Pair's second attempt to 'drive' from Cuba
to Florida foiled." Immigration laws vary from country to country. We need to
add one amendment to present U.S. law, which would allow highly intelligent
people to enter this country.

Anyone ingenious enough, creative enough and intelligent enough to convert a
"1950s-era Buick" into a "pontoon boat" should be welcomed to our shores. These
immigrants would contribute considerably more to the country than clean dishes
and manicured lawns.

HARRY WINKLER

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              423 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 1, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

WHERE ARE THE LAWYERS?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 270 words


Lawyers who seek only popular or lucrative cases won't find them at the Krome
detention center, which must explain why the Muslim and Arab detainees at the
facility have trouble finding lawyers.

The Post reported this week that only a few South Florida lawyers and the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami have been willing to represent the 50
men who have been detained west of Miami since Sept. 11. Those lawyers work long
days, face long odds and often take no fees. One of them, Hina Askari, ran two
ads in the Florida Bar's newspaper seeking help from her peers as her caseload
became overwhelming. She hasn't had any luck attracting reinforcements, but
she's drawn the attention of many abusive phone callers.

Florida Bar President Terry Russell says pro bono work in the state is at an
all-time high - $171 million worth of service by 27,000 lawyers in 1999 - but
acknowledges that his members were caught up in the "trauma for our country" and
many ignored the detainees' call to service.

"Candidly, they probably haven't come forward because of the peculiar
circumstances since Sept. 11," Mr. Russell says. That's a diplomatic way of
saying that representing the detainees was politically unpopular. "But give us a
chance like everyone else to come out of the trauma and focus on the Bill of
Rights."

The truest tests of any justice system are how it responds to the unpopular
cases and how well it defends the most vulnerable defendants. The undone pro
bono work at Krome indicts the legal profession and shows the damage democracy
can suffer when patriotic fervor gets out of hand.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              424 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

                May 30, 2004 Sunday sunday FINAL EDITION edition

DETENTION SITE A BLEND OF CULTURES, LANGUAGES languages

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRISS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 10A 10A

LENGTH: 949 words words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY city


Behind the walls of El Vergel detention center, frustrated migrants from around
the world mix in a kaleidoscope of nationalities and languages.

Sri Lankan women who have paid thousands of dollars to try to get to Canada sit
motionless in the sun, holding hands and smiling wistfully at a 2-year-old from
Sierra Leone nestled in his pregnant mother's lap.

Rail-thin men from Ethiopia and Eritrea emerge from cells and plead in broken
English for news about their fate.

Mexicans are the leading nationality entering the United States illegally. But
every year the number of undocumented foreigners detained in Mexico - most of
them en route to the United States - also grows and becomes more diverse,
underscoring Mexico's role as a pivotal transit point for global human
smuggling.  smuggling.

On any given day, up to 700 or more detainees from more than 50 different
countries are held in El Vergel. While most detainees are Central Americans and
other Latin Americans, migrants are also come from places as far away as China,
Uzbekistan, Syria and Bangladesh.

During the first three months of 2002, an estimated 1,500 detainees were
registered at El Vergel. In the same period in 2003, that figure climbed to
about 5,000. This year from January through March the number exploded to about
12,000.

Detainees and staff gesture with hands, shoulders, even eyebrows, as they
attempt to communicate in tongues as diverse as Spanish, English, Hindi, Arabic,
Russian, Chinese and Greek.

Mexico now spends $20 million caring for and deporting illegal migrants from El
Vergel and Mexico's other migrant holding tanks, compared with $12 million last
year.

"Can't you help me? Yes, I have food here. I am not hurt. But there is nothing
like freedom," pleaded Laurindo Antonio Sa, from the impoverished, politically
volatile country of Guinea Bissau, in western Africa.

After seven months, Sa is one of the longest held detainees at El Vergel.

Sa asked for political asylum in Mexico, claiming his life would be threatened
back home. Mexican officials, who rejected Sa's asylum request, are not sure
what to do with him. Fluent in English, Sa said he stowed away on a ship that
left him on Guatemala's Caribbean coast. He entered Mexico en route to the
United States.

As long as he has no passport and refuses to consult with diplomats from his
country - or until he finds some other path to freedom - Sa will remain here.

Global mix fuels friction

The cultural mix packed into tight quarters at El Vergel can produce friction.
Cuban and Chinese men nearly came to blows recently over the propriety of
spitting. A group of Buddhist Chinese women pushed and shoved another Chinese
woman who was Christian.

Men and women are held separately, as are the many teens, boys and girls, under
18 and traveling alone. Meals and bathrooms are shared among hundreds of people,
and detainees sleep in small rooms with iron bunk beds.

Peruvian Wilma Arroyo, 28, sat on the patio in the women's section recently,
weeping.

"I thought I would make a better future for my daughter in the United States. I
thought bad," she said, explaining that she spent $8,000 in savings and loans in
her failed bid to get to the United States. She hugged her 5-year-old daughter.

"Acapulco, go beach. Visa. Why problem?" muttered Ninel Markiv, 28, a
chain-smoking Ukrainian detainee who insisted she was just a tourist who wanted
nothing more than to go home. Markiv had been in El Vergel for 30 days after
being arrested near the U.S. border, a violation of the terms of her visa.

Daylis Delgado, 31, also rested in the sun, exhausted but blissful compared with
other detainees. Her Cuban nationality assured her a different fate.

Many of the Cubans detained in Mexico receive a document authorizing them to
voluntarily leave Mexico within 30 days. This allows them to head to the U.S.
border and ask U.S. officials for asylum because U.S. law grants Cubans special
treatment once they are on American soil.

Delgado said she was looking forward to seeing her husband, Reynaldo Leon, who
settled in Palm Beach County after leaving Cuba several years ago. She and other
Cubans detained together told a harrowing tale of washing up on a Mexican beach
after a 10-day trip in a raft at sea in April.

But the description of where they landed - a beach in Veracruz state along the
Gulf of Mexico - and how they ended up in the southern state of Chiapas didn't
make geographic sense.

Tales of 'full of drama, pain'

Whether migrants are telling the full truth or exaggerating doesn't matter much
to the center's staff, said Hugo Miguel Ayala, El Vergel's supervisor.

"Although some of their stories might not be authentic, they are still full of
drama and pain," he said.

The Central Americans who cycle through El Vergel are usually deported to the
Guatemalan border within 24 hours. If detainees hail from more remote countries,
they often languish for weeks, if not months, until families, home governments
or the Mexican government finally put down money for expensive flights.

This year, at least 175 refugee petitions from Colombians, Syrians, Somalis,
Salvadorans, Liberians, Sri Lankans and others have been submitted.

Most are rejected, but some foreigners are lucky. Among others, three Eritreans
and five Ethiopians have been granted refugee status in Mexico.

Johnson Taye, however, a Liberian who arrived in Mexico from Brazil carrying a
fake South African passport, has been unsuccessful in trying to obtain asylum.

As Ethiopians, Indians and other English speakers crowded around him, he
appeared to beg to be understood.

"There is a war in my country," he said.

sferriss@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
MEXICO MIGRATIONRan all editions.  editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W); LUIS J. JIMENEZ/Special to Cox News Service 'Can't you
help me?' pleads Laurindo Antonio Sa (left), 31, of Guinea Bissau, who has been
held at Mexico City's El Vergel detention center for seven months. Migrant Kone
Adam, 30, of Guinea also awaits word., word.,

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.


                              425 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       July 5, 2002 Friday FINAL EDITION

CUSTOMS VESSEL COLLIDES WITH MIGRANTS' BOAT

BYLINE: Wanda J. DeMarzo, The Miami Herald

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 333 words


An accused smuggler and his alleged human cargo from three countries are in
custody after their boat collided with a U.S. Customs vessel late Wednesday
night off Dania Beach.

Authorities say the accident occurred around 11 p.m. Wednesday about 3 miles
offshore. A 22-foot go-fast speedboat and a U.S. Customs vessel collided with
enough impact to stun those inside the go-fast.

"At this point we're not sure how the two boats collided," Customs spokesman
Zack Mann said. "We are investigating the incident and will know more later."

Many of the 16 people huddled around the center console in the small,
high-powered boat tumbled into the calm, dark waters, disoriented and screaming
for help.

Two Coast Guard cutters and a helicopter found 15 migrants and the alleged
smuggler in the water.

"We found all of them easily, and there weren't any serious injuries," Petty
Officer Gregory Jones said.

Several of the migrants had cuts and abrasions, and a few had swallowed
seawater. Several crew members aboard the customs vessel also received minor
injuries.

Ten injured migrants were taken to Memorial Regional Hospital in Hollywood. Two
remained there overnight. The others were treated and were in the custody of
Border Patrol.

"We believe the smuggler may be one of the Haitian males," said Joe Mellia,
Border Patrol spokesman. "We don't often see different nationalities on the same
boat, but it has happened."

The 15 migrants will be turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and repatriated. The alleged smuggler faces federal charges, Mellia
said.

Immigrant rights advocates are challenging a new policy by the INS of detaining
Haitian asylum-seekers until their cases are resolved. INS officials have said
they fear that releasing the detainees could trigger an exodus from the island.

This year, Bahamian authorities have intercepted more than 1,400 Haitians at sea
trying either to come to the United States or enter the Bahamas, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

                   Copyright 2002 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              426 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 21, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

HE DROPS THEM AT U.S. DOOR

BYLINE: By GARY KANE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 1369 words

DATELINE: ASSAU, BAHAMAS


In a grassy lot behind a food store and laundromat, atop a large boat trailer,
rests D.Z.'s money-maker.

"I've got two new outboards waiting on the dock," he said, running a hand across
the boat's wave-beaten hull. "I've got to put it back to work. It's a work boat,
you know what I'm saying?"

D.Z. is a smuggler, dealing only, he insists, in human cargo. For obvious
reasons, he doesn't want his name published.

"I'm an entrepreneur," he asserted. "I bring people to their dream."

The dream has given birth to an underground cottage industry in this nation of
islands, some just a few hours by boat from the Florida coast. It's the dream of
people fleeing such impoverished countries as Haiti and Ecuador and such
repressive regimes as those in China and Cuba. Cashing in on the dream are men
like D.Z., owners of small boats who are willing to take the risk of smuggling
these migrants into Florida.

"The risk out there is great because it's an ocean, you know, and then you have
the Defence Force of the Bahamas. You have the Coast Guard. You have the United
States immigration and customs," D.Z. said.

With 30 inhabited islands, the Bahamas has long been a smuggler's pipeline into
the United States.

"The Bahamas is the doorstep to the United States," D.Z. said with a smile.
"Everyone comes through the Bahamas."

A stocky fellow who just turned 50, D.Z. gives the impression that smuggling
migrants isn't a get-rich-quick endeavor. He wears scuffed sandals and polo
shirts. He tools around the island in a rattling Jeep with a gap in the
dashboard where thieves pilfered the radio.

"I'm not too concerned about, um, the big money. If I can live comfortable, it's
cool," he said. "But on any given day, you know, you get 10 people, you try to
get 10 people to the United States, and you get them safe there, you're looking
at $30,000."

And where else can you make that kind of cash for six or seven hours of work -
roughly the time it takes to motor from Nassau to the Florida Keys?

For now, D.Z. equates a comfortable lifestyle with a new two-bedroom house on
the southern end of the island. It's modest compared with some of the mansions
sprouting in the hills west of Nassau (several built with drug money, D.Z.
suggests). But it's a larger house than that of most Bahamians, particularly
black Bahamians, he said.

The rambunctious squeals of D.Z.'s two little girls echo off the living room
walls. The room is bare, the floor concrete. It's here that D.Z. will often hide
passengers immed before smuggling them into the states.

"When it's time to move people, you don't want to have people all over the
place, picking up people," he explained. "So whenever you say it's time to move,
with the weather permitting, everyone is there, you know, and you could take
them right to the vessel and pull out."

On such occasions, D.Z. moves his wife and children into a hotel, primarily to
protect them from a possible raid by Bahamian immigration officials.

He said he's dabbled in the business for 17 years. During that time he did run a
few shipments of drugs but claims to have turned his back on that trade long
ago.

"Drugs are death," he said.

Trafficking in human beings is a noble cause, at least in his world, D.Z.
maintains.

"This might seem to be a paradox," he said. "Here I be, on one side breaking the
law against United States policy of illegal entry, bringing in immigrants,
right? But in the meantime, I would be most delightful to call the Coast Guard
or any other agency that I see if I see a drug boat out there."

D.Z. is quick to put a political spin on smuggling human cargo. He argues that
the U.S. maintains a double standard in its treatment of refugees from Cuba and
Haiti. Whereas the U.S. grants asylum to political refugees from Cuba who reach
Florida shores, it repatriates Haitians who get there, he said.

"The Cubans can go and they're accepted with open arms, and the Haitians, who
are black, are sent back," he said. "It's racist."

He said he never smuggles Haitians out of Haiti.

"No, no, no. My concern is getting them out of here," he said. "I don't see why
I shouldn't help the people to get them out, because the Bahamas can't absorb
them. And in the meantime I make a few dollars."

No one really knows how many Haitians live in the Bahamas. The government has
put the number as high as 40,000, but the United Nations and other groups
estimate the number has reached 60,000. The influx has strained social services,
prompting Bahamians to dub the situation "the Haitian problem."

To D.Z., the solution is a short boat trip away.

"The bottom line is that the United States is the greatest nation on the Earth,
and they are obligated to help these people," he said.

With his boat in dry dock, D.Z. relies on income from a few rental properties he
owns and from brokering passage for other migrant smugglers. Two days earlier,
he tried to help a Cuban man from Lake Worth who was attempting to get his wife
out of the Bahamian detention center for illegal immigrants. Earlier this day,
four young Haitian men boarded a small boat to head for Florida - a trip D.Z.
arranged.

"All people who are in this business are known by each other," he said. "So, as
my boat is down now with the engines, I can always refer them to another
person."

D.Z. is never without his cellphone and always willing to scribble his number
for a prospective passenger. During an afternoon trek into the outskirts of the
city, he gave his number to three Haitians living in squatter shacks. They wear
donated clothes and grow vegetables for food and income. One day, they will be
smuggled into Florida, D.Z. said.

"Some have jobs, jobs that no Bahamians will take," he said. "And one thing
about Haitians, if they have five dollars, they spend one dollar for food and
save the rest. We have a lot of Haitian people who are in South Florida. And
some of them become successful in businesses and they send money to the
Bahamas."

D.Z. charges between $1,500 and $3,000 for passage to Florida. The cost depends
on the number of passengers on a run. In effect, he offers a discount group
rate. He never takes more than 10 passengers at a time and never makes the
voyage at night - he'd rather risk being spotted than not be able to see what's
around him in the water. He won't discuss the logistics of the trip. He uses
Global Positioning System gear for navigation and said he has life jackets for
his passengers.

"That's another part of the operation that you have to look at: the safety of
the people," he said. "On the ocean, you never can tell what happens. You know,
the ocean can tear up anything once you get a northwestern wind. You can leave
from here in real calm seas and when you get out there you got 4- to 8-foot
seas, and that's a hell of a problem."

Just such a storm ambushed him a few years ago, he said.

"You know, we were out there and one of our boats split from bow to stern. We
had to pull into Andros (Island) and the whole trip was just a disaster.
Luckily, no one was killed."

D.Z. is more concerned about storms than the threat of Bahamian law enforcement.
Because so many Haitians try to get into the Bahamas, the Royal Bahamian Defence
Force has focused attention on intercepting vessels entering the islands, not
leaving them. Furthermore, the force isn't equipped to chase the savvy smuggler,
D.Z. said.

"Any good trafficker who knows the waters, knows that the Bahamas are full of
banks, which is shallow water, and the Defence Force has boats that cannot go
into shallow water," he said. "The Defence Force is just a sham."

The U.S. Coast Guard patrols Bahamian waters to fight drug trafficking and
migrant smuggling. But migrant smugglers are more concerned about encountering
Coast Guard vessels off the coast of Florida, D.Z. said. And increased border
security after the terrorist attacks on the United States has made migrant
smuggling even more challenging.

"It's like slaying the giant," he said. "It's an art. So sometimes it feels good
to know you can get these people there. And land these people safe in great
America. And it gives you that feeling of, you know, accomplishment."

gary_kane@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              427 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      August 15, 2003 Friday FINAL EDITION

TWO CUBANS HELD ABOARD CUTTER ARRESTED
 ONE CHARGED AS SMUGGLER; OTHER A WITNESS

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


At least two of the five Cuban migrants adrift aboard a U.S. Coast Guard cutter
learned their fates Thursday, with federal prosecutors charging one man with
alien smuggling and arresting the one woman on board as a material witness in
the case.

The remaining three migrants remained veiled in secrecy, but were believed to be
on the cutter late Thursday. Three federal agencies involved in migrant
interdiction refused to identify them or say whether they would be returned to
Cuba.

According to an affidavit filed in federal court, one passenger said the group
that was intercepted in the Lake Worth Inlet Sunday night met the operator of
the boat - Angel Perez-Robles - in Freeport, Bahamas.

On the way to Florida, Perez-Robles, also Cuban, told the group to jump into the
water if the boat was stopped and attempt to touch land, the affidavit says.

According to the "wet-foot, dry-foot" Cuban migration policy, those who make it
to shore are generally allowed to remain in the United States; those who don't
are returned to Cuba. The policy has come under recent fire from Cuban exiles
after some migrants who were returned to the island were imprisoned or executed
in Fidel Castro's current crackdown on dissidents.

Five in the group did jump off Perez-Robles' boat, swimming for Singer Island.
Federal agents plucked two of them out of the water.

Yadmilia Pelegrin, 28, was one of them. According to the affidavit, Pelegrin
told a federal agent how the operation worked and is now held in the Palm Beach
County Jail as a witness in the case. Federal law allows people to be held as
witnesses even if they aren't charged with crimes.

Both Pelegrin and Perez-Robles are scheduled to appear in federal court in West
Palm Beach later this month.

On Thursday, Pelegrin's brother was relieved to learn she was off the boat, but
angry she had been jailed.

"The only thing she's done is try to escape Fidel Castro," said Juan Carlos
Pelegrin, 37, of Hialeah.

The group spent days on the 110-foot Coast Guard cutter Manitou, forced to sit
on the deck under a tarp, unable to go below.

Juan Carlos Pelegrin said his sister, a former airport worker, was desperate to
leave Cuba because she hadn't been able to find work in two years.

"I still don't understand how she pulled this crazy stunt. I can't believe she
did it," he said.

According to the affidavit, federal agents are exploring a man in a green van
that was waiting near Phil Foster Park, possibly there to meet the migrants.

The three men who jumped from the boat and made it to shore remained in the
county jail. They are: Ridel Gonzalez-Garcia, 33; Ariel Martinez Travieso, 23,
and Jose Rodriguez-Riano, 22. Three federal agencies declined comment on how
long they would be held.

Staff writer Alan Gomez contributed to this report.

susan_spencer_wendel@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Yadmilia Pelegrin (mug)

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              428 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     December 8, 2003 Monday FINAL EDITION

SEXUALLY ABUSED BY HER 'COYOTE'

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 159 words


Carla (not her real name) didn't have money for a "coyote" to take her to the
United States. So the 20-year-old from Honduras found a smuggler who would let
her pay later. "I swam across the river into Texas along with five people from
Ecuador," she said. Then the coyote broke his promise. "He said I owed him money
right then," she said. "He said he liked me and that I would live with him for a
time. I told him I didn't want to do that, but he took me to a town near
Brownsville, to a trailer where there were only white people around." Carla says
the coyote sexually abused her for three months. He threatened to turn her into
immigration authorities if she tried to leave. By the time he got tired of her
and kicked her out, Carla was pregnant. She made her way to San Antonio and had
her baby there. Since then, she has married and had three other children. They
all live in Wimauma, where she works in a plant nursery.

- John Lantigua

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MODERN-DAY SLAVERYA PALM BEACH POST SPECIAL REPORT2 OF 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); Staff photos by LANNIS WATERS, A terrifying lesson to learn:
'Carla,' a native of Honduras who now works in a plant nursury in Wimauma, near
Tampa, says her coyote betrayed her trust and became her sexual abuser.

                   Copyright 2003 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              429 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 8, 2004 Saturday SOUTH EDITION

NEW LAW WOULD HELP FIGHT SLAVERY, HUMAN TRAFFICKING

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


When a bruised and battered woman shows up at her shelter, Pam O'Brien's main
concern is helping her figure out a way to escape her tormentor, not
interrogating her about what led to the abuse.

Still, at least a half-dozen times each year, she and her staff at Aids to
Victims of Domestic Violence know the women who come to them for help aren't
simply casualties of relationships gone bad.

"We see victims of human trafficking," said O'Brien, executive director of the
Delray Beach-based center. "Generally they come from other countries, and
they're very, very fearful. They're frightened to death."

Those who track the seemingly throwback practices of sex slavery, forced labor
and domestic servitude aren't surprised by O'Brien's observations.

Florida, along with California and New York, is a favorite destination for
people who force mainly poor immigrants into labor or prostitution, according to
the Center for the Advancement of Human Rights at Florida State University.

With a large immigrant population and a reliance on agriculture, Palm Beach
County is attractive to those who use others essentially as slaves.

In fact, one of the most sophisticated sex-trafficking operations in the nation
- one that involved dozens of Mexican women - was uncovered when federal agents
in 1997 raided six makeshift brothels, including ones in West Palm Beach,
Boynton Beach, Lake Worth and Fort Pierce.

But while the existence of human trafficking is well known, there is no state
law specifically making it illegal.

That could change as a result of a law passed in the waning minutes of last
week's legislative session that now awaits Gov. Jeb Bush's signature.

Sponsored by Rep. Anne Gannon, D-Delray Beach, the law would make it a felony to
engage in sexual trafficking and to use coercion and violence to force a person
into labor.

It would make it a felony for a parent to sell a child into slavery. Those
caught trafficking in people younger than 14 could face sentences of life in
prison.

The legislation also would allow prosecutors to charge traffickers with
racketeering so they can seize the profits of illegal operations.

Those who have studied what they say is an all-too common practice say the new
law would bolster efforts to stop it.

Now, human trafficking is a federal crime. Having a state law will give local
police, who are often the first to encounter human trafficking, clear
jurisdiction to investigate, said Robin Thompson, director of the FSU center's
human-trafficking project.

Often, cases are discovered when police are sent on a domestic violence call.
Or, she said, a bar fight about money might stem from an argument involving
forced labor.

The timing of the passage of the law is also fortunate, she said. This summer,
the center plans to begin training police statewide about how to recognize human
trafficking.

Like domestic violence, O'Brien said, such cases can turn up anywhere.

One middle-aged immigrant sought help from the shelter after being held hostage
and abused by a Boca Raton professional she met over the Internet.

"What we're finding out is the more we talk about it, the more we're finding out
how much it's happening," she said. "It's shocking, but it is happening."

jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              430 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 18, 2004 Saturday FINAL EDITION

REGIONAL TASK FORCE TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 95 words


A task force has been formed to combat human trafficking in South Florida, the
U.S. Attorney for the Southern District announced Friday.

The task force, which is made up from law-enforcement agencies throughout the
area, will investigate and prosecute those who profit from the recruitment,
transport or sale of human beings for labor and sexual exploitation, Marcos
Daniel Jimenez said.

Between 14,500 and 17,500 victims of trafficking cross the U.S. border each
year, Jimenez said. The task force will also work to raise public awareness
about the crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              431 of 431 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

              July 8, 2004 Thursday thursday FINAL EDITION edition

SLAVERY CONTINUES IN U.S. DESPITE LAWS, OFFICIALS TELL PANEL panel

BYLINE: By ANDREW MOLLISON Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service service

SECTION: A SECTION, section, Pg. 4A 4A

LENGTH: 483 words words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON washington


Despite stricter enforcement and greater protection for victims, human
traffickers continue to smuggle in thousands of foreigners from poor countries
to work as slaves in brothels, homes, factories and farm fields in the United
States, witnesses told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee Wednesday.

"Americans may be particularly alarmed to learn that at least 15,000 human
beings are trafficked into lives of slavery in the United States each year,"
said Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who chaired the hearing.

Some estimates put the figure as high as 50,000 a year, he said.  said.

Women, children and men are brought in from places as far apart as Uzbekistan
and Mexico, enticed with false promises of glamour, education or, in some cases,
simply the prospect of a steady pink-collar or blue-collar job. Beatings,
isolation from society, threats of deportation, sexual humiliation, rape or
threats of retaliation against family members in their home countries are among
the tactics used to keep them from escaping.

The Justice Department's U.S. attorneys have uncovered "numerous examples of
forced labor and sex slavery . . . from California to Maryland, from Hawaii to
New Jersey, from Georgia to New Hampshire," Cornyn said. "The stories they tell
are tragic, disturbing and heart-rending."

Several witnesses from government and social service agencies suggested that law
enforcement officials won't get enough tips to eliminate the practice until more
Americans become aware of domestic slavery.

During the three years following the passage of the Trafficking Victims
Protection Act of 2000, the Justice Department's U.S. attorneys began twice as
many investigations and brought charges against three times as many human
traffickers as they had in the previous three years. But that amounted to an
average of only 67 new investigations, charges against 37 traffickers and guilty
pleas or convictions for 20 defendants a year.

"These are difficult cases to investigate and prosecute, with victims typically
unwilling or unable to contact the authorities," said Johnny Sutton, U.S.
attorney for the western district of Texas, which stretches from Austin to 600
miles of Mexican border.

He and Michael Shelby, the U.S. attorney for the southern district of Texas, who
each successfully prosecuted high-profile cases, outlined the Justice
Department's efforts:

- A toll-free hot line receives tips about suspected trafficking in human
beings.

- More investigators, prosecutors and victims' rights advocates are being
trained.

- Anti-slavery task forces of public and private agencies, now operating in
Atlanta, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Tampa, will open in several other
metropolitan areas this year.

- This month, law enforcement officials and social service providers will meet
in Tampa to plan how to coordinate their own work and increase public awareness.

- amollison@coxnews.com com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 2004 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.
