
                               1 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 24, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

KEMP SAYS HUD GRANTS CAN'T BE DENIED TO ALIENS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, CALIF.


In a move that effectively kills an effort by Costa Mesa city officials to

deny social services to illegal aliens, Housing and Urban Development

Secretary Jack Kemp has decided that agency grant money cannot be withheld

from undocumented residents.

"I come to this issue with an understanding and sensitivity for the great wealth
of talent that has come to our country from Latin America, the

Caribbean and other nations," said Kemp, who grew up in Los Angeles and has

ties to the Mexican-American community. "It struck me as bad policy, counter-
productive and un-American to take human services from children or ask

charities to do that."

Immigrants rights groups, who have voiced concerns about the attempts of

local governments to regulate undocumented workers, hailed Kemp's decision.

"It's a good sign," said Charles Wheeler, director of the Los Angeles-

based National Immigration Law Center. "We are pleased he responded so

quickly and correctly."

Kemp's directive came Friday in response to an attempt by the city of

Costa Mesa last August to bar public service groups from receiving federal

grant money unless they agreed not to knowingly serve illegal aliens. The

council, which passed the policy on a 3-2 vote, had not stated how agencies

were to go about determining the status of clients. But directors at many

organizations expressed alarm that they would have to establish costly and

time-consuming screening procedures or foregoing receiving any city financial
assistance.

Immigrant rights groups, charitable organizations and even city officials were
shocked when HUD general counsel Frank Keating, in a ruling issued two

weeks ago, determined that the policy appeared to violate no federal law.

Friday's directive, which effectively supersedes the Keating ruling, was

dispatched to HUD's 10 regional managers and expressly forbids cities that

receive HUD grants from imposing restrictive requirements on public service

groups.

The directive states that "no grantee under HUD-funded community

development programs can discriminate . . . on the basis of race, color, creed
or alienage," provided that such services do not include cash payments or

other types of "welfare" assistance.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 9, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. AGENTS TOLD NOT TO DETAIN ALIENS;
KROME OVERLOADED; INS PROBE REQUESTED

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 459 words


Because the Krome Detention Center in Miami is overloaded, U.S. Border

Patrol agents in Florida have been ordered to release most illegal aliens

rather than detaining them, immigration officials said Wednesday.

Unless the aliens are criminally charged, they are given permits and

released if they agree to voluntarily return to their countries or return in

30 days for processing, said Marshall Metzger, chief Border Patrol agent for

Florida.

"Krome is the only facility in Florida for illegal aliens," Metzger said.

"You can only catch what you can stick somewhere. We are not pushing

agents to detain aliens that don't pose a problem."

About 30 percent of the aliens given such permits aren't expected to obey them,
Metzger said.

Two Florida congressmen, Tom Lewis and Bill McCollum, have called for an

investigation of the Miami INS District Office because of backlogged case work
and more than 100 vacant positions there.

Claiming "gross mismanagement" of the district office, the congressmen

asked the General Accounting Office to investigate.

Lewis, a Republican from North Palm Beach, said Wednesday he was dismayed to
hear of the enforcement downgrading.

"If this is true, it's an indication of the ineffective management of the

INS Miami District Office and the need to fill 100 authorized INS and Border

Patrol positions there that remain vacant," he said.

Besides the lack of detention space at Krome, Metzger said lack of money

is also hampering efforts to detain illegal aliens.

"It costs $100 per alien if we rent a bus (to Mexico) and if we have to

fly them out it's even more expensive," he said. "I try to save most of the

money to get rid of the hard-core, criminal aliens. We have to get the biggest
bang for the buck."

Neal Richards, Border Patrol agent in charge for Palm Beach, Martin, St.

Lucie and five other counties, said his patrolmen had released eight illegal

aliens Wednesday on permits.

"We badly need additional holding space," Richards said. "The illegal

aliens have a good network. If they find out they can come to Florida and only
get a permit (after apprehension), I can well imagine the numbers that will be
coming here."

Last month, Metzger said, 461 illegal aliens were arrested, and 83 were

released on permits. The rest, he said, either went to Krome or were deported.
The INS is trying to reduce the alien population at Krome to help correct the
problem, Richard Smith, acting INS district director in Miami, said

Wednesday.

About 100 have been paroled in the last week-- most of them with family

ties in Florida who have a guaranteed place to live, Smith said. The INS is

trying to get Krome down to a capacity of 450 aliens, he said, and as of

Wednesday it had 515.

* Larry Lipman in The Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau contributed to

this story.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 22, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER AGENTS WON'T LEAVE FLORIDA, IMMIGRATION CHIEF SAYS

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


The country's top immigration officer said Tuesday that U.S. Border Patrol

agents won't be moved from Florida to bolster efforts to stop illegal aliens

from crossing the U.S.-Mexico border.

"There won't even be any adjustments for the next few years," said Gene

McNary, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner. McNary and

U.S. Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, spoke at a news conference at the

Port of Palm Beach.

Although McNary said he wants to move some Border Patrol agents from

interior states to the Mexican border, he said he considers Florida to be a

border state, given its proximity to the Caribbean.

After closed-door sessions here and in Miami with McNary and other INS

officials, Lewis said he is satisfied the Border Patrol will remain an

effective force in dealing with South Florida's illegal alien problems.

"I think we've changed his mind," Lewis said. "He's recognizing that

Florida is a border state because it has liquid borders. He also sees the need
of the Border Patrol for more investigators, more space and some clerical

help."

McNary, who toured INS facilities in Miami and then at the port, said a

300-bed addition to the Krome Avenue Detention Center in Miami should ease

crowding. Illegal aliens are held at Krome while awaiting immigration hearings
or deportation.

Money to add to Krome's existing 350 beds will be in the 1991 INS budget, he
said, but an aide said construction will be at least two years off.

McNary also said INS intelligence indicates that Cuban leader Fidel

Castro doesn't plan to allow another refugee boatlift to the United States.

"We have also let it be known that we don't want people going to Cuba

and bringing back people illegally," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 27, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

150 KROME DETAINEES GO ON HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


About 150 undocumented immigrants being held at the Krome Detention Center

went on a hunger strike Monday to protest immigration policies.

The hunger strike apparently resulted from frustration over rules that

prevent immigrants from being released on bond or to family members, advocates
for the immigrants said. The strike does not appear to be prompted by unrest

at a federal prison in Alabama that holds Cuban refugees, they said.

Haitian activists have complained that the U.S. immigration policy is

inconsistent in that it allows undocumented Cuban refugees to be released

while Haitians and other refugees are detained at Krome.

Jonathan Fried, a spokesman for the American Friends Service Committee,

said some detainees called the agency Monday morning to inform them of the

hunger strike.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said about 150 of

the 400 people detained at Krome were participating in the hunger strike.

Fried said he had heard reports that the strikers were being held in a

courtyard separate from detainees not involved in the strike.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions....STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 6, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BOAT OWNER CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING HAITIANS

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Bahamian boat owner whose 31-foot Oceanmaster capsized Thursday,

resulting in the deaths of three undocumented immigrants, was charged Friday

with smuggling people into the country.

Fredrick Leroy McCartney, who says he is a fisherman, told U.S. Border

Patrol agents that he expected to be paid between $1,000 and $1,500 per

immigrant for the ill-fated voyage, according to a sworn statement from

Special Agent Bradford E. Dupre.

Another Bahamian-- Moxey Ainsworth, 18-- was arrested and appeared in

federal court with McCartney, but Assistant U.S. Attorney Hal Goldsmith said

Ainsworth would not be charged.

U.S. marshals released Ainsworth into the custody of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, which has a hold on all survivors from the shipwreck.
Illegal immigrants are detained at the Krome Detention Center in Miami until

their cases can be heard by an immigration judge.

Two men who were aboard the boat are still hospitalized. Jaime Pacheco

Torres was in good condition at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center, and an

unidentified man was in critical but stable condition Friday in the intensive
care unit at Jupiter Hospital. Both are from the Dominican Republic.

A third man, Carlos Rivera, 20, died Thursday at Jupiter Hospital,

authorities said. Two unidentified women also died after spending hours in the
heavy seas off the Jupiter Inlet. Torres later told agents that he believed

the women were from Haiti.

Agents said they found a Haitian passport with no United States entry visa on
the shore near where the white fishing boat capsized. They also found a

counterfeit Puerto Rican birth certificate, a Florida insurance identification
card with a fake policy number and a counterfeit Puerto Rican identification

card on Rivera's person.

Border Patrol spokesman Neal Richards said Friday that even though the

people were traveling in rough water, they probably would have made it safely to
shore if they hadn't lost one engine in the Gulf Stream after leaving the

Bahamas Wednesday night.

Federal prosecutors asked U.S. Magistrate Barry S. Seltzer to hold the

boat owner without bond until his trial. A detention hearing is scheduled for
Wednesday.

* Staff writer Joe Brogan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 21, 1989 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

2 FINED $59,700 FOR ALLEGEDLY HIRING ALIENS;
MEN ACCUSED OF GIVING FARMS ILLEGAL WORKERS

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Launching what federal officials say is a crackdown on farm labor

contractors who violate immigration laws, the U.S. Border Patrol on Tuesday

fined two men $59,700 for allegedly supplying illegal aliens to work on farms in
Delray Beach, Jupiter and Stuart.

The civil penalty was levied against Jose Domingo Poblano Sr., 45, and

Jose Domingo Poblano Jr., 25, owners of Vegetable Harvesting Inc. of 4714

Wadita-Ka Way in suburban West Palm Beach.

Border Patrol Chief Agent Neal Richards said that by fining farm labor

contractors, federal officials hope to curtail the illegal labor force in

South Florida.

"I'm trying to get the word out to employers and farm labor contractors

that if we find (illegal) aliens, it's not going to be probation," Richards

said. "They will be fined. After the third violation, they can get criminal

penalties."

Aliens who could prove they had worked on U.S. farms during parts of 1985 and
1986 had until Nov. 30 to apply for amnesty. Richards said the Border

Patrol held off on farmworker investigations until that deadline passed.

Since January, the Border Patrol has fined 44 local non-agricultural

businesses for hiring illegal alien workers, Richards said.

"This is the first fine issuance on an agricultural labor contractor in

the 13-state southern region of the Immigration (and Naturalization)

Service," Richards said.

The fine follows the arrests in April and May of 11 illegal aliens from

Guatemala and Mexico who Richards said were hired by the Poblanos. The two men
supplied the workers to Mecca Farms in Stuart and Pero Farms in Delray Beach,
Jupiter and Stuart, he said.

Neither Mecca nor Pero has been charged because the contractors filled out
government documents describing the workers as legal aliens.

In a separate case, 49 illegal aliens were arrested in May by Border

Patrol agents at Tropical Plantation Farm in Stuart, which was leased by Mecca
Farms.

Not all the illegal aliens arrested there worked for the Poblanos,

Richards said, and several other farm labor contractors are under

investigation.

The Poblanos said Tuesday they will appeal the fine to a federal

administrative law judge. The younger Poblano said he knew he was hiring

illegal aliens and said that 90 percent of the county's farmworkers are

illegal aliens.

"People should understand that these are the only people who will work

in the fields," the elder Poblano said.

Richards and case agent Kevin Douglas said, however, that their research

shows there are adequate numbers of legal aliens to do farm work.

Last year, the INS charged 56 farmworkers and five labor contractors with
forging documents in an attempt to qualify the laborers for immigration

amnesty. None were convicted, however, and a federal judge criticized the

government for lacking enough evidence.

A state regulator said Tuesday he would await the outcome of the Poblano case to
determine whether their state licenses would be revoked.

"We look at these types of activities pretty strongly," said Davie

Rabon, supervisor of certification for farm labor contractors in the state

Bureau of Agricultural Programs. The Poblanos' farm labor contractor licenses
expire in February 1990, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Shorter version ran other editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 14, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

S.C. TEXTILE FIRM FINED $580,000, ACCUSED OF HIRING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service Wednesday levied a record

$580,000 fine and announced criminal indictments against the owners of a South
Carolina textile company that allegedly flouted federal verification

procedures in hiring 85 illegal aliens from Mexico and Peru, including a 12-

year-old boy.

The action against Piedmont Quilting Corp. of Walhalla, S.C., involved the
heaviest fine to be imposed under 1986 immigration reform legislation that

made employers responsible for checking on the status of their workers.

Plant owner Alfred Mizhir, 55, his wife Gail, 30, and nine other officers were
indicted on criminal charges under the act for allegedly disregarding its
verification provisions. Officials said the indictments were based on evidence
that additional illegal aliens had been hired besides those discovered during an
INS raid July 17.

Company officers declined immediate comment. INS officials said the

company has 30 days to contest the fine at an administrative hearing.

The largest previous fine to be levied under the act was a $308,000

penalty imposed last year against Ready-Men Inc., a Chicago company providing
temporary laborers.

Gene McNary, the new INS commissioner, said the latest fine "should be a

clear sign to those who have doubts that the INS is strongly committed to

enforcing the employer sanctions. . . . It is my intention to maintain a

vigorous and firm enforcement activity."

In all, Piedmont was accused of failing to verify the employment status of more
than 400 employees.

Under the 1986 reform act, an employer is required to make a careful check of a
prospective employee's immigration documents to make certain that the

worker is not in the United States illegally. The company also must keep on

file a statement of each employee's birth record or immigration status

completed partly by the worker and partly by the company.

Thomas P. Fischer, chief of the immigration office in Atlanta, said

working conditions for three Mexican boys hired by Piedmont "almost bordered

on bondage."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 8, 1990 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FAKE PAPERS BIG BUSINESS ALONG BORDER;
U.S., MEXICAN OFFICIALS COOPERATING IN CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: By GUILLERMO X. GARCIA, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXAS


Carolina Ramirez Martinez, 57, a Mexican attorney, sits in a Nuevo Laredo

prison awaiting trial on charges that she sold hundreds of legitimate Texas

birth registration cards-- at $1,000 each-- to undocumented workers illegally
entering the United States.

Mexican authorities recently said she confessed to having been in business for
several months and to selling about 40 cards.

But they maintained that the woman had been dealing in both counterfeit

and real documents for the past five years. In the months before her arrest,

they contend, she sold about $200,000 worth of cards.

The attorney's arrest by Mexican federal judicial police last month

underscores what authorities say is the proliferation along the border of

counterfeit papers and the illegal use of valid documents.

Since the United States overhauled its immigration law in 1986, all job

seekers must present papers proving they are legally in the country and are

authorized to work. Employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers face

fines of up to $10,000.

But the case of Ramirez Martinez, along with several others in recent

months, has given U.S. law enforcement officials reason to be optimistic.

Those investigations, they say, indicate an increased willingness of

Mexican authorities to arrest and prosecute people involved in the Mexican end
of counterfeiting schemes.

The attorney's case and two others investigated by the U.S. Immigration

and Naturalization Service this year have been among the largest

counterfeiting rings ever cracked, according to U.S. investigators.

One case last January involved the seizure in Houston of more than 25,000
counterfeit immigration and Social Security cards and valid U.S. birth forms,
worth an estimated $5 million on the black market.

That case is the largest counterfeit identification ring ever uncovered in the
INS' 13-state southern region, which stretches from Florida to New Mexico and
includes about 1,350 miles of Mexican border.

In the third case, U.S. and Mexican authorities announced in June that

they had cracked the largest international document-forging ring ever

discovered.

Seven people in Texas and two in the central Mexican city of San Luis

Potosi were arrested and charged with running a fake documents ring that was

netting about $1.5 million a month, authorities said.

The group was responsible for the distribution every month of about 1,000 bogus
Social Security and "green cards," the work permits distributed to

legally admitted aliens.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 21, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWERS HIRING UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16B

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Florida farmers are unknowingly employing large numbers of undocumented

farmworkers to harvest their crops, a labor specialist for the Florida Fruit

and Vegetable Association said Wednesday.

But without those workers, growers could face a labor shortage during

future harvest seasons, he said.

Ever since Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act in

1986, employers have been responsible for ensuring that all workers have

papers proving they are entitled to work in the United States. If found

employing undocumented workers, the employers can face stiff sanctions.

The law was designed to stem illegal immigration into the United States. But it
is not working, according to Walter Kates, director of labor relations for the
association.

"The only difference between the illegal worker employed in agriculture

prior to the passage of IRCA and the illegal alien presently employed in

agriculture is the fact that the new illegal alien has fraudulent documents

that appear to be genuine to most growers," Kates said.

Farmworkers with false documents are replacing formerly undocumented

workers who were offered U.S. residency under the Special Agricultural Workers
program included in the immigration law. The newly documented workers are

leaving agriculture in large numbers for other industries, Kates said.

"Of the estimated 1.3 million aliens who applied for SAW status, only

460,676 SAW workers were employed in agriculture during some period of time

since January 1989," he said.

The new wave of undocumented workers, mostly from Mexico and Central

America, is the reason the U.S. secretaries of Labor and Agriculture declared
last September that no Replacement Agricultural Workers were needed in 1991,

Kates said.

The RAW program was established by Congress to allow additional

farmworkers into the United States through fiscal 1993 if there is a projected
shortage of legal workers in the industry. So far, no RAW workers have been

allowed to enter the country.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is aware of the increased

number of undocumented workers, but so far has not stepped up enforcement in

agriculture, Kates said.

"Unless the INS decides to act, the increased employment of illegal

aliens in agriculture will continue and . . . the industry will become more

and more at risk of losing a greater portion of its legal work force," he

said. "I, for one, am convinced that sooner or later the INS will act and

then the big question will be: Who's left to harvest the crops?"

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 20, 1989 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

20 BUSINESSES FINED UNDER IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By MARY C. WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 759 words


Federal officials intent on sending a message to employers hiring illegal

immigrants have fined 20 businesses in Palm Beach and Martin counties more

than $100,000 in the past year for violating immigration rules.

The fines range from $500 to $29,400 per business, according to U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service records.

Neal Richards, head of the Border Patrol which enforces immigration laws in Palm
Beach, Martin and six other South Florida counties, said Thursday the businesses
were charged with civil violations under the 1986 Immigration

Reform and Control Act.

He said his agents are simply enforcing a federal law passed two years

ago.

"We've run an extensive educational program for businesses since the law was
passed Nov. 6, 1986," Richards said.

"And we've had a period where we would only issue warnings. We've warned some
several times before now. They have had adequate notification about the

new laws so there is no excuse."

But officials with Work World Inc., a Riviera Beach labor contractor that
employs an average of 100 workers a day, say their lawyers are attempting to

negotiate a settlement in lieu of paying a $29,400 fine the company was

notified about in October.

"First of all, we have not been fined," said Vice President Bob

Cunningham. "We've only received an intent to be fined. But our attorneys are
currently negotiating with the INS to have all charges dropped."

Cunningham confirmed that some of the charges stem from not filling out

the verification forms correctly, but he refused to elaborate on the other

charges.

Under reforms approved by Congress more than two years ago to curb the

flow of illegal immigrants entering the country, businesses are required to

complete an employment eligibility verification form commonly called an I-9,

for all employees within three days of their hiring.

Richards said the verification forms must be kept on file and made

available for routine inspection by the Border Patrol and the Department of

Labor.

The 20 businesses fined in the two counties represent almost half of the
businesses fined statewide, Richards said. He attributed the large number here
to the local Border Patrol's diligence and the high number of illegal

immigrants.

Similar crackdowns are taking place nationwide, Richards said.

In December, a Jensen Beach cable construction company was fined $11,600 for
hiring illegal immigrants and not filing verification forms.

But Steve Livesay, president of S.L. Cable Construction, said he's not to blame.
He contracts out his labor force and said he has a valid contract with Tomas
Aguirre of Indiantown.

"He's responsible for maintaining those papers and we told him we

didn't want any illegals working."

But Aguirre, a Guatemalan who recently qualified for temporary residency in the
United States under a 1986 amnesty program, denied that he acted as a

labor contractor. He said he was never paid for supplying workers and didn't

agree to a contract.

He admits signing a paper, but said he didn't know it was a labor

contract.

"I don't read English too good. They say I couldn't have my check

without signing it, so I signed it. But I didn't know what it said," Aguirre

said.

Livesay said INS has robbed him of his labor force. Before he signed on

with Aguirre, he was unable to find people to dig and lay cable lines for $6

an hour and had to suspend business until the problems are resolved.

BUSINESSES FINED BY INS

The following businesses in Palm Beach County were fined last year for

violating the Immigration Act. If the name of the business differs from that

of the parent company, that name is indicated in parentheses.

BUSINESS NOTICE DATE FINED

T.F. Florida Pavers 1/13/88 $9,000

West Palm Beach

Lighthouse Restaurant 2/5/88 $500

Jupiter

Jupiter Crab Co. Restaurant 2/19/88 $4,500

Jupiter

Broward Truss Co.

(Gang Nail Inc.) 5/12/88 $2,000

West Palm Beach

Weatherguard Systems

(A&W Auto Detailing) 7/1/88 $3,000

Lake Park

Norken Inc.

(Broadway Furniture Co.)* 7/27/88 $1,500

Riviera Beach

Southern Building

Products Inc. 7/28/88 $5,900

West Palm Beach

G. Marsh and Co.* 7/29/88 $1,800

Boca Raton

Robert Fredericks

Contractors Inc. 8/17/88 $4,500

West Palm Beach

Ocean Club Resort

Hotel Inc. 8/23/88 $9,200

Singer Island

Norman Construction Co. 9/28/88 $1,800

Lake Worth

Deveaux Landscaping 10/3/88 $4,500

Greenacres City

Work World Inc. 10/7/88 $29,400

Riviera Beach

R.T. Sod and Landscaping 10/31/88 $1,000

West Palm Beach

Broadway Furniture 11/28/88 $2,100

Riviera Beach

G. Marsh and Co. 12/6/88 $3,900

Boca Raton

Construction Technology 12/6/88 $4,000

West Palm Beach

* Businesses cited twice by Border Patrol for noncompliance.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of story. Story also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 20, 1989 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

20 BUSINESSES FINED UNDER IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By MARY C. WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 816 words


Federal officials intent on sending a message to employers hiring illegal

immigrants have fined 20 businesses in Palm Beach and Martin counties more

than $114,000 in the past year for violating immigration rules.

The fines range from $500 to $29,400 per business, according to U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service records.

Neal Richards, head of the Border Patrol which enforces immigration laws in Palm
Beach, Martin and six other South Florida counties, said Thursday the businesses
were charged with civil violations under the 1986 Immigration

Reform and Control Act.

He said his agents are simply enforcing a federal law passed two years

ago.

"We've run an extensive educational program for businesses since the law was
passed Nov. 6, 1986," Richards said.

"And we've had a period where we would only issue warnings. We've warned some
several times before now. They have had adequate notification about the

new laws so there is no excuse."

But officials with Work World Inc., a Riviera Beach labor contractor that
employs an average of 100 workers a day, say their lawyers are attempting to

negotiate a settlement in lieu of paying a $29,400 fine the company was

notified about in October.

"First of all, we have not been fined," said Vice President Bob

Cunningham. "We've only received an intent to be fine. But our attorneys are

currently negotiating with the INS to have all charges dropped."

Cunningham confirmed that some of the charges stem from not filling out

the verification forms correctly, but he refused to elaborate on the other

charges.

Under reforms approved by Congress more than two years ago to curb the

flow of illegal immigrants entering the country, businesses are required to

complete an employment eligibility verification form commonly called an I-9,

for all employees within three days of their hiring.

Richards said the verification forms must be kept on file and made

available for routine inspection by the Border Patrol and the Department of

Labor.

The 20 businesses fined in the two counties represent almost half of the
businesses fined statewide, Richards said. He attributed the large number here
to the local Border Patrol's diligence and the high number of illegal

immigrants.

Similar crackdowns are taking place nationwide, Richards said.

In December, a Jensen Beach cable construction company was fined $11,600 for
hiring illegal immigrants and not filing verification forms.

But Steve Livesay, president of S.L. Cable Construction, said he's not to blame.
He contracts out his labor force and said he has a valid contract with Tomas
Aguirre of Indiantown.

"He's responsible for maintaining those papers and we told him we

didn't want any illegals working."

But Aguirre, a Guatemalan who recently qualified for temporary residency in the
United States under a 1986 amnesty program, denied that he acted as a

labor contractor. He said he was never paid for supplying workers and didn't

agree to a contract.

He admits signing a paper, but said he didn't know it was a labor

contract.

"I don't read English too good. They say I couldn't have my check

without signing it, so I signed it. But I didn't know what it said," Aguirre

said.

Livesay said INS has robbed him of his labor force. Before he signed on

with Aguirre, he was unable to find people to dig and lay cable lines for $6

an hour and had to suspend business until the problems are resolved.

"I'm a small company. I can't dish out that kind of money. But if the

immigration service keeps on, there won't be anybody to work the jobs in

Florida that need to be done," he said.

BUSINESSES FINED BY INS

The following Palm Beach and Martin County businesses were fined last

year for violating the Immigration Act. If the name of the business is

different from that of the parent company, that name is indicated in

parentheses.

BUSINESS DATE OF NOTICE FINED

T.F. Florida Pavers 1/13/88 $9,000

West Palm Beach

Lighthouse Restaurant 2/5/88 $500

Jupiter

Jupiter Crab Co. Restaurant 2/19/88 $4,500

Jupiter

City Discount Beverage 2/19/88 $500

Hobe Sound

Broward Truss Co. (Gang Nail Inc.) 5/12/88 $2,000

West Palm Beach

Weatherguard Systems (A&W Auto Detailing) 7/1/88 $3,000

Lake Park

Norken Inc. (Broadway Furniture Co.)* 7/27/88 $1,500

Riviera Beach

Southern Building Products Inc. 7/28/88 $5,900

West Palm Beach

G. Marsh and Co.* 7/29/88 $1,800

Boca Raton

Robert Fredericks Contractors Inc. 8/17/88 $4,500

West Palm Beach

Ocean Club Resort Hotel Inc. 8/23/88 $9,200

Singer Island

Norman Construction Co. 9/28/88 $1,800

Lake Worth

Deveaux Landscaping 10/3/88 $4,500

Greenacres City

Jenkins Landscape Co. Inc. 10/4/88 $3,300

Hobe Sound

Work World Inc. 10/7/88 $29,400

Riviera Beach

R.T. Sod and Landscaping 10/31/88 $1,000

West Palm Beach

Broadway Furniture 11/28/88 $2,100

Riviera Beach

S.L. Cable Construction 12/1/88 $11,600

Jensen Beach

G. Marsh and Co. 12/6/88 $3,900

Boca Raton

Construction Technology 12/6/88 $4,000

West Palm Beach

* Businesses cited twice by Border Patrol for noncompliance.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of story.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 5, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER WAR BATTLE OF BUREAUCRACY;
MORE ALIENS ENTERING, BUT AGENTS GET NO RELIEF

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Despite an increasing number of illegal aliens entering South Florida, it

isn't likely that more Border Patrol agents will be assigned to this area, an
immigration official said last week.

"You have to put your resources where the major problems are," said

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in

Washington. "The preponderance of problems are on the southern border of the

United States, where we apprehend approximately 1 million illegal aliens a

year."

An example of the local problem occurred Aug. 27, when the U.S. Coast

Guard and Palm Beach Shores police arrested seven illegal aliens and two

alleged Bahamian smugglers when a boat beached near Palm Beach Inlet.

The aliens, all from the Punjab area of northern India, were working in

construction in Nassau and paid $2,100 each to be transported here from

Freeport, said Neal Richards, agent in charge of the Border Patrol's office

here.

"There are a variety of aliens coming here from the Bahamas that we

don't catch," Richards said. "We only have eight guys to cover eight

counties, and I'm asking for 25 total. That way we could start to do the job

we're supposed to do."

The Border Patrol has information that more than 100 Indian nationals are
waiting to make their illegal entry by boat from the Bahamas to Florida, he

said. But the only Border Patrol boat is in Miami.

Indians fly into the Bahamas on tourist visas and then make arrangements for
illegal entry into Florida, Richards said. It is more difficult to get a

tourist visa to the United States than it is to be smuggled into the country.
"They're here purely for economic gain," he said. "Not one of them has

sought political asylum."

Another aspect of the problem, Richards said, is that large numbers of

aliens are involved in criminal activities. An INS study shows that 36 percent
of the inmates in Florida state prisons are legal or illegal aliens, he said.
Congressman Tom Lewis's office is trying to get more Border Patrol agents
assigned to the area, said Ann Decker, Lewis's Port St. Lucie aide.

"It's a `Catch-22,' " she said. "They're told that they're doing a

great job but aren't catching enough illegal aliens. And that as soon as they
catch more, they'll get more people."

Richards said Krome Avenue Detention Center in Miami, the state's only

holding facility for illegal aliens, is at capacity.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 27, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CRIMINAL ALIENS' ARRESTS DOUBLE, STRAINING PRISONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Aliens who commit serious crimes-- including murder, rape and drug

trafficking -- are a growing problem that is already draining law enforcement
resources and threatening public safety, officials say.

The main problem, say congressional and administration officials, is a

lengthy deportation process that enables released convicts to commit new

crimes while their immigration cases are pending, a failure to control illegal
immigration, or misplaced priorities within the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The result, says Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, is "that we're taking about a
massive problem, with potentially hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens (in
the country) who have committed crimes."

Smith is ranking Republican on the House subcommittee on immigration and

international law.

Subcommittee chairman Rep. Bruce Morrison, D.-Conn., said: "The

priorities (at INS) do not seem to be clear at all. You really can't be

allowing a large number of people who have committed crimes to remain (in the
U.S.). It makes a joke out of the system."

INS spokesman Duke Austin said the agency has increased its deportations

of criminal aliens-- those either convicted or accused of a crime-- yet is

bound by the law, which gives most criminal aliens the right to a full review of
their cases in immigration court. An alien can prolong a deportation for up to
two years.

In that time, Austin said, aliens have been known to commit new crimes and go
back to prison.

Immigration rights activist Charles Kamasaki said, "There are lots of

people who are legally entitled to be in the country, and who but for that

process might be forcibly evicted." Kamasaki is vice president of the

National Council of La Raza.

Apprehensions of criminal aliens-- those referred to INS by local law

enforcement-- have more than doubled in five years-- from 22,000 in fiscal

1985 to 51,154 in 1989. Deportations of criminal aliens jumped from 4,711 in

1987 to 6,072 in 1988 to 41,824 in 1989.

Kamasaki says the issue tends to be exaggerated, "when you consider the

total number of persons coming into the country . . . the number of persons

committing a crime in proportion to the 10 million (aliens who enter annually)
is extraordinarily small.

"For a politician on the lookout for a cheap way to score some political

points, the subject-- even the title, `criminal aliens,' is like a gold mine.
But its really a very minor problem in the context of crime overall."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 24, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CRITICS BLAST FALLOUT OF IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration reform has freed more than 3 million American residents from

the label "illegal alien," but Hispanic activists say reform also has helped

create a huge underclass ripe for discrimination and exploitation by

unscrupulous employers.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of late 1986 was supposed to allow
illegal aliens to enter the mainstream of American life while stemming the

tide of illegal immigration across the nation's southern border.

Critics say the legislation has only partially succeeded in slowing the

influx of aliens and has done little to improve the lives of many here.

Hispanic rights organizations said the legislation, which bars employers

from hiring undocumented aliens, has created an underclass of people desperate
for jobs but vulnerable to employers who pay subminimum wages and require

workers to perform hazardous tasks.

Some have taken such hazardous jobs as improperly managed asbestos removal or
working with toxic wastes, said Mario Moreno, director of the Washington

office of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

And Congress and the administration have yet to make good on their promise to
increase the ranks of the Border Patrol by 50 percent. Before the bill's

enactment there were 3,700 Border Patrol agents; today there are 3,800 on

duty, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The reforms, however, appear to have succeeded -- at least initially-- in
slowing the number of aliens crossing the Southwest border illegally.

The bill also has succeeded in touching the lives of 3.1 million people

who were in the country illegally prior to its passage but who are eligible to
become citizens through its amnesty provisions.

"One in every 100 residents (of the country) has been touched," said

Michael Fix, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute, a Washington
think tank. "The scale is stunning, and the kind of money spent and the

impact on society over the long run is just stunning. This is a one-time

program of the size of the war on poverty-- a big social deal, and I don't

think the dimensions are really appreciated."

But activists say the amnesty provisions split families, with one spouse

allowed to remain legally and another unqualified to apply for residency.

Immigration reformers complain that Congress failed to prepare for the clamor of
relatives who surely will follow.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 13, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS PROMISES TENT CITY `WON'T BE CONVENIENT' FOR BORDER CRASHERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


Immigration officials expect their plan to hold up to 10,000 illegal aliens in
tents will send a message to discourage an expected surge of Central

Americans seeking asylum.

Nicaraguans, Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans apparently forgot

about the agency's last show of force a year ago along the Mexican border,

says Gene McNary, the new chief of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
So tents and truckloads of beds and portable toilets are arriving to make good
on McNary's threat to detain up to 10,000 "border crashers" at a remote

detention camp northeast of Brownsville.

"It will be humane, but it won't be convenient," McNary said in

announcing the crackdown Wednesday. "It will not be as though you're staying

at the Ritz-Carlton. You will lose your freedom while you're here, and we

don't want to do that."

At least $11 million will go toward the initial effort of shifting Border Patrol
agents and immigration examiners from other parts of the country and

packing detainees into large vinyl tents with plywood floors.

INS officials said it probably would take at least 10 days before the

regular red-brick dormitories fill to their 1,600 capacity, making the tents

necessary.

Walner Hernandez, a 21-year-old Salvadoran detainee who came to this

country to find work and get away from the army as well as anti-government

guerrillas, said he thought word of the massive detention policy would take

hold in his country.

"I wrote my mother and told her don't recommend to nobody to come

illegally to the United States," Hernandez said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 15, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIALS DETAIN 45 ON FLIGHT TO ATLANTA

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Immigration officials detained 45 suspected illegal aliens who arrived on

an Eastern flight early Wednesday at Hartsfield International Airport.

"This is a replay of the massive smuggling ring we've investigated since

last year," said Thomas Fischer, director of the Atlanta office of the

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

INS agents, who had observed Eastern's non-stop Flight 88 from Los Angeles for
about three weeks, boarded it when it landed at 6:35 a.m., Fischer said.

They took into custody 48 passengers who could not produce valid

identification but released three of them, he said.

About three-fourths of those detained were believed to be Mexicans. Others were
said to be from El Salvador, Guatemala, Peru, Honduras, Colombia and

Ecuador.

The Mexican detainees were sent to Brownsville, Texas, by bus to be

returned to Mexico, Fischer said, while those from the other countries will be
bused to Krome Avenue detention center near Miami for processing.

All had been promised jobs by smugglers, who charged them $2,000 to cross the
U.S. border and another $1,000 to get to New York -- the flight's final

destination.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 30, 1990 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW BLAMED FOR WORKER DISCRIMINATION

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A law designed to stem the flood of illegal aliens into the United States

has caused a "widespread pattern of discrimination" against foreign-looking

and foreign-sounding workers, according to a General Accounting Office report.
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 imposes penalties on

employers who hire illegal immigrants. Provisions of the law say Congress is

required to consider repealing the employer sanctions if the GAO determined

they created discrimination.

As a remedy, the GAO report suggested the government issue national worker
authorization cards which would be used by anyone seeking a job. People would
not be required to carry the card at other times.

The study also concluded that, despite a recent surge in the number of

aliens apprehended at the border, the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act
had succeeded in reducing the flow of illegal immigrants.

About 1.6 million aliens were apprehended in fiscal 1986, before the law

took effect. In 1989, about 857,000 aliens were apprehended.

The findings of discrimination in the GAO report prompted calls for repeal of
the sanctions against employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers,

the legislation's most controversial provision.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., introduced
companion bills calling for repeal of the sanctions.

"The report confirms exactly what many of us in Congress feared when

employer sanctions were enacted in 1986," Kennedy said. "The sanctions would

be discriminatory against Hispanic-American citizens, Asian-American citizens,
and other ethnic minorities, and it would be difficult to implement the law in a
way that avoids such discrimination."

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and the American Civil Liberties Union also
called for repeal of the penalty provisions.

But Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Gene McNary

defended the sanctions, claiming they had helped reduce the economic incentive
to enter this country illegally by making it more difficult for undocumented

aliens to find jobs.

After surveying more than 9,400 employers, the GAO study concluded that 19
percent of the nation's 4.6 million employers covered by the law-- those with
more than four employees-- had discriminated based on a job applicant's

foreign appearance, accent or citizenship status.

NEW SOCIAL SECURITY CARD

The report attributed the discrimination to employer concerns that they

would be held accountable for hiring illegal aliens and the lack of a reliable
and verifiable method of determining a job applicant's eligibility. About 78

percent of employers said they wanted a better verification system.

The GAO report suggested that one card, such as a modified counterfeit-

resistant Social Security card, would make it easier for employers to

verify the eligibility of all applicants.

New cards would have to be issued to all workers, the GAO said, because of the
large number of bogus Social Security cards in circulation.

INS has been working on developing a counterfeit-resistant card which

would include a photograph of the bearer and could tie into a national

computer network similar to those used by retail stores in verifying a credit
card.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran Lake O / Shorter version ran Central and South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 20, 1990 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FIVE CHARGED WITH IMMIGRATION VIOLATIONS;
BELLE GLADE RESIDENTS HAD DRUG CONVICTIONS, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


Immigration and drug task force agents arrested four Jamaicans and a

Haitian this week on charges of immigration violations, officials said

Wednesday.

Police Lt. Jack Fulenwider said all of those arrested had prior felony or
misdemeanor convictions on narcotics charges. He said that is a violation of

the Immigration and Naturalization Act.

Special agents of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and

members of the Glades Multi-Agency Narcotics Task Force arrested Fitzroy

Richards, 34; Fortune Agenor, 36; Lyndon George Campbell, 39; Michael Cameron,
29, and Delroy Brown, 26.

All five were Belle Glade residents. No bail was set for the five suspects.
Fulenwider said more arrests are expected.

He said the arrests, made at various locations, started at 1:30 p.m.

Tuesday. The charges are based on information provided by the Belle Glade

Police Department, the task force and Florida Department of Corrections Parole
and Probation, he said.

Except for Campbell, Fulenwider said, all those arrested would be held in

the Glades County Jail in Moore Haven until they can be taken to an INS

facility in Oakdale, La.

There, they will go before an immigration judge, who will decide whether

they can remain in the United States.

Fulenwider said Campbell, convicted of drug charges in 1986, had his hearing a
year ago and will be deported to Jamaica immediately.

If Campbell returns to the United States, Fulenwider said, he faces 15 years in
prison and would be deported again when he finishes his sentence. The other four
have not had hearings.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran LO.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOCIAL SECURITY OFFERS AMNESTY TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Social Security Administration will offer amnesty to illegal immigrants who
once used false Social Security numbers or false documents to get a number but
now qualify for citizenship under the 1986 immigration law, officials have
announced.

All an immigrant needs to do to qualify for amnesty is to stop using the

false Social Security number by Jan. 3, agency spokesman Phil Gambino said.

"That's the first and most important part," Gambino said. "After that,

people can come in and correct their records and put their earnings on the

right number."

Gambino said people may correct their records any time, as long as they

stop misusing false or fraudulently obtained Social Security numbers. Such use
is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If
people do not correct their records, future earnings will not be credited

toward higher Social Security benefits.

An estimated 3.1 million immigrants have applied for citizenship under the
amnesty provision of the 1986 Immigration Control and Reform Act. They are

eligible to get Social Security numbers once they are naturalized.

The amnesty program of the Social Security Administration is a little-

known provision of immigration legislation passed in October.

As many as 2.5 million immigrants may be falsely using Social Security

cards and would be eligible for amnesty, Gambino said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 17, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AGENTS ARREST MORE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Arrests nationwide of illegal immigrants increased during the first quarter of
the federal fiscal year, enforcing an upward trend that some immigration

experts say indicates that migration across the U.S.-Mexico border has

increased.

From October to the end of December, Border Patrol agents arrested 237,000
illegal immigrants in the United States, the highest first-quarter total since
1987, according the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The number of arrests was 13 percent higher than the same period of the

previous fiscal year.

Most arrests came along the nation's southern border, where 207,000

illegal immigrants were taken into custody. Of those, 101,000 illegal

immigrants were caught near San Diego.

Verne Jervis, INS spokesman in Washington, downplayed the significance of the
numbers, saying the latest figures from the southern border for January

were down 7 percent compared with the same period in the last fiscal year.

Jervis and Ted Swofford, an INS spokesman in San Diego, said one reason

for the January decline may be a rumor that warned "people caught by the

Border Patrol were going to be drafted and sent to Saudi Arabia," Swofford

said.

Some observers believe the increase in the arrest figures is because of

illegal immigrants using fraudulent documents to beat the employer sanctions

of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

For three years after the law's passage, arrests of illegal immigrants

fell from a high of 1.7 million to 891,000 in 1989.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 21, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUPREME COURT SAYS FARMWORKERS MAY CHALLENGE INS

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 937 words


The U.S. Supreme Court, in a case brought by the Catholic Diocese of Palm

Beach and Miami's Haitian Refugee Center, ruled Wednesday that thousands of

undocumented farmworkers have the right to challenge immigration procedures in
court.

The 7-2 ruling overturned a provision of the 1986 Immigration and Control Act
that excluded federal courts from reviewing INS actions that, according to the
high court, "routinely and persistently violated the Constitution and

statutes."

It also upheld a ruling by Senior U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins in

Miami requiring the Immigration and Naturalization Service to provide

interpreters during interviews, keep written records of applicants' statements
and allow applicants to call witnesses in their own behalf.

More than 100,000 undocumented aliens across the country will be affected by the
ruling, including about 6,000 South Florida farmworkers who were

awaiting a second INS review of their residency applications.

Immigration and human rights lawyers across the country hailed the ruling

as one likely to open all of INS' internal procedures affecting immigrants to
court review-- including those involving political asylum.

"This ruling underscores the notion that illegal aliens are people and

that the courts can resolve broad-scale human rights abuses when people are

victimized," said Arthur Helton of the New York-based Lawyers Committee for

Human Rights.

"It may help sensitize the agency (INS) to the alien community," he

said.

David V. Bernal, the INS lawyer who handled the case, said he was "not in a
position right now" to comment on the ruling.

The case stemmed from a 1988 lawsuit filed by the diocese's Office of

Migration and Refugee Services, the Haitian Refugee Center and 17 farmworkers
that challenged the fairness of INS procedures used in considering

applications for residency by undocumented workers.

INS ASKED FOR REVIEW

The INS asked for the Supreme Court review last year, arguing the District Court
in Miami and the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, which

upheld Atkins' ruling, did not have jurisdiction to examine and subsequently

condemn INS' internal procedures.

INS said in its appeal that the 1986 law did not give federal judges

authority to intervene "into the day-to-day business of administering the

immigration laws."

The 1986 act authorized hundreds of private groups-- in practice, often

churches-- to assist farmworkers in documenting that they had worked in farm

labor jobs for at least 90 days during the 12 months before May 1, 1986.

LAW SHIELDS RECORDS

The law shielded the groups' records from the INS and forbade use of any

information they collected as grounds for deporting their clients. After

review by groups such as the one operated by the diocese, immigrants could

decide whether they wanted to seek residency in hearings before an INS

caseworker.

According to congressional testimony, the procedure was set up to assure

undocumented immigrants, already fearful of the INS, that they could come

forward without risking automatic deportation.

But when many of the diocese's and refugee center's clients were denied

residency, lawyers found out many hadn't been interviewed in their own

language and that their eligibility claims were not written down.

The Rev. Frank O'Loughlin, director of the Palm Beach Gardens-based

Migrant and Refugee Services, said Wednesday's victory-- despite favorable

rulings in the lower courts-- was "the most stunning breakthrough for these

people" who can now "pursue an American life."

"In my business, you don't get to have babies, so this a a big deal,"

O'Loughlin said.

The church put its good will with the immigrants at the service of the

INS, which proceeded to abuse it, O'Loughlin said.

VIOLATIONS NOT DENIED

The court agreed. In the majority opinion, Justice John Paul Stevens wrote that
INS officials "do not deny that (their) violations caused injury in

fact" to the church and the refugee center.

Robert Williams, a lawyer with Florida Rural Legal Services who helped

write the diocese brief to the high court, said the INS continued to appeal

losses in lower courts in an effort to stop any review of its internal

procedures.

"This was to be the lynchpin in their effort to shut the courthouse

door," he said.

All 17 of the original plaintiff-farmworkers are now legal residents, he

said. Many pick tomatoes in LaBelle.

The agricultural workers program was one of two set up under which

undocumented aliens could come forward during a limited period in an effort to
establish permanent residency. Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming, a sponsor of the
bill, called it "the first call and the last call, a one-shot deal." The

bill also made hiring undocumented workers illegal.

3.1 MILLION NOW RESIDENTS

Under the act, more than 3.1 million immigrants have become legal

residents since 1986.

Because of the huge numbers of immigrants it expected to seek residency

under the program, Congress said only the results of the hearings, not the

procedures used in making the decisions, could be challenged in federal court,
government lawyers argued.

But in testimony before Atkins, lawyers for the immigrants showed that INS
caseworkers often left blank the sheets on which they were to write the

reasons for the recommendations about residency -- leaving nothing for a court
to review.

The Atlanta appeals court affirmed Atkins' order in July 1989. The Supreme Court
was asked to review the case in June and heard arguments in October.

In his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice William Rehnquist said Stevens'

"ponderously reasoned gloss on the statute's plain language" allows an

"unwarranted intrusion into a carefully drafted congressional program."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 5, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIAL ACCUSED OF SELLING `GREEN CARDS'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A high-ranking immigration official in Washington is under investigation

for an accusation he took $5,000 bribes from undocumented immigrants seeking

permanent residency cards.

Federal court documents say Luis Del Rio, director of foreign operations

for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, is being investigated. Del

Rio, 51, oversees INS refugee, asylum and parole offices, as well as foreign

personnel matters.

The Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General said in a court

document that a confidential source claims Del Rio took $5,000 payments from

Chinese, Colombian and Venezuelan nationals for the residency cards, commonly
known as green cards.

No charges have been filed by the government. The allegations are

reportedly detailed in an affidavit by Special Agent Willie Haynes, of the

Office of the Inspector General.

The affidavit, which asks a federal judge to allow the government to

inspect Del Rio's bank records,was filed Wednesday in Miami.

Investigators say an examination of Del Rio's bank records may show that

he obtained "hidden income" from the sale of green cards.

Del Rio did not return requests for comment Wednesday and Thursday. His

family said he was away at a Fourth of July picnic Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 23, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS WERE STOWAWAYS, JUDGE RULES

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Four Haitians whose plight drew activists' outrage after they were chained

or caged aboard a ship moved closer to deportation Monday when a federal judge
ruled they had been stowaways.

The Haitians' attorney argued that because the men had paid $1,000 each

to come to the United States, they were passengers, not stowaways. The ship's
first mate, whom the Haitians said they paid, could not be found for the

hearing.

U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp's decision, however, does not end the
Haitians' legal fight to stay in the United States.

The four will apply for political asylum, which may entitle them to a

hearing before an immigration judge, said Richard Smith, district director for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. A restraining order issued by

another judge, which has kept the Haitians from being deported so far, expires
at 5 p.m. Wednesday.

The Haitian Refugee Center also filed a federal damage suit on their

behalf against Smith and the Border Patrol, along with the owner and crew of

the freighter, Arawaq-Sun II, accusing them of physical abuse.

The four Haitians and a fifth companion who has disappeared arrived in

Miami July 9 on the freighter. After docking at the Miami River, the captain

called immigration agents and reported the Haitians were stowaways.

After questioning, the agents returned the five Haitians to the custody

of the freighter, ordering the captain to take them back to Haiti. The

Haitians were then placed in a wire cage visible to television news cameras.

from shore. Their treatment sparked protests from Haitian exiles.

The immigration service finally relented and took the men back into U.S.

custody, but one escaped in a scuffle and has not been found.

The four remaining Haitians claimed Monday they had paid $1,000 each to the
ship's first mate.Their attorney claimed that made them legitimate passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 21, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAWMAKERS: REPEAL EMPLOYER SANCTIONS IN IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bipartisan group of lawmakers, backed by an unusual coalition of business and
civil rights organizations, began pushing legislation Friday to repeal

employer sanctions in a 1986 law meant to curb illegal immigration.

The repeal measure was introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Rep.

Edward Roybal, D-Calif., who charged that the threat of fines and jail terms

against employers has led to widespread discrimination against Hispanic and

Asian-American job-seekers.

They also claimed that the sanctions-- which were at the core of the 1986
statute-- have imposed a heavy burden on businesses.

The conservative senator and liberal congressman proposed spending more

than $90 million a year to strengthen border patrols and prosecution of

discrimination cases.

"This bill will safeguard American citizens and legal workers who happen

to look foreign or speak with an accent, whose civil rights have been

systematically violated by the current employer sanctions," Roybal said.

Hatch asserted that "undocumented aliens continue to pour into this

country" despite the 1986 law. He said that "some employers have engaged in

illegal discrimination" and have been saddled with "paperwork and related

burdens."

Hatch appeared at a news conference with a bipartisan group of lawmakers

-- including Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,-- and with leaders of Hispanic and other
civil rights organizations.

Business groups also strongly support the repeal, said U.S. Chamber of

Commerce official Damon Tobias.

But the bill, similar to one that went nowhere last year, quickly met

stiff resistance from Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., co-author with Rep. Romano

Mazzoli, D-Ky., of the 1986 legislation that transformed the nation's

immigration laws.

"If this (repeal) bill passes," Simpson said, "a very clear message

will go out to the world: `Well, the U.S. no longer is serious at all about

controlling its borders. Come on in, the more the merrier. You can go to work
and be pretty well exploited because there is no way to penalize employers.'
"I'm not talking about xenophobia or anything else," he added. "I'm

just talking about a tide."

Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, acknowledged it
would be tough to win repeal of sanctions but said the effort would be

helped by a new grassroots campaign and by reapportionment in the wake of the
1990 census.

"The redistricting process throughout the country is going to mean an

increase in Hispanic elected officials in Congress and at all levels of

government," he said. "We intend to mobilize . . . to press for repeal."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GETTING IN

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1982 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


John Vening and his family say they came to the United States the wrong

way. They came legally.

Vening, wife, Sally, and their two children left England in 1981 with a

work permit and money to invest in a dry-cleaning business. Since he didn't

sneak in, he didn't qualify for the immigration amnesty in 1988 that gave 3

million undocumented immigrants the opportunity to become citizens.

"If we had come in illegally, I'd be wearing red, white and blue underwear

by now," Vening said. Without amnesty, his children can't work, he cannot

leave the country even for vacation, and he must apply each year to extend his
work permit. He estimates the application and accompanying legal work costs

him about $1,000 a year.

"The worst thing we did was to do it legally," he said.

Whether immigrants come with papers or sneak through the back doors along the
border, the biggest obstacle they face is U.S. immigration policy. It is a maze
of trapdoors, loopholes and opportunities that make the difference

between citizenship or deportation.

It's administered by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Consider that:

* Perhaps as many as half the immigrants coming into the United States do so
illegally.

* Undocumented immigrants seldom need to worry about detection, unless

they are convicted of a felony.

* If they are found, undocumented immigrants can almost always get a work permit
by asking for asylum. If the asylum case drags on, the permit can be

extended year after year.

* The INS doesn't have enough workers to check vigorously for employers

hiring undocumented workers. Most never are caught.

* If they wind up in immigration court, the immigrants don't have the

same rights as American citizens, and the decisions on whether they stay or go
can be influenced by the latest coup or election in their home countries.

* Cubans fleeing Fidel Castro's dictatorship receive preferred treatment not
available to other nationalities because the United States can't send them back.

Those who came in by the rules are left wondering why they bothered.

DUPED BY THE SYSTEM

Estimates of the number of undocumented immigrants in the country range

from 3 million to 6 million. The immigration service says they are coming at

the rate of 500,000 a year.

"It undercuts the legal system," said immigration service spokesman Duke

Austin. "The numbers are obvious and dramatic enough to make those that

waited in the queues for legal entry look as if they have been duped."

"You definitely have an advantage if you are here," INS spokesman Rick

Kenney said.

The ones who are here can apply for political asylum or try to show

through a labor certification process that no legal resident will accept the

job they want. Some use fraud to obtain work permits.

Claiming political asylum is a virtual guarantee of a temporary work

permit. If the INS determines that the application is non-frivolous-- meaning
that it addresses one of the five asylum standards-- the immigrant is granted a
one-year work permit while the claim is reviewed. The work permit is

routinely extended upon request while the review continues.

The Miami asylum office has about 30,000 backlogged asylum applications,

and most of the applicants have work permits, said office director Erich

Cauller.

Cauller said it is not unheard of for an immigrant to receive work

authorization for four to five years while his case is being processed.

POLICY UNDER FIRE

The ease of illegal entry and authorized stay is bringing a chorus of

complaints from local and state officials who say the cost of educating and

caring for the immigrants is tremendous.

"The federal government has to pay up," said U.S. Rep. Tom Lewis, a

Republican from North Palm Beach. South Florida still is unpaid for the cost

of absorbing most of the 125,000 Cuban exiles who came in 1980 during the

Mariel exodus, he said. "They still owe us $150 million."

In the past nine years, almost 410,000 immigrants granted permanent

residency have named Florida as their intended home.

"I don't know how many undocumented aliens there are in Florida," said

Nancy K. Wittenberg, Florida's refugee program administrator. "It's like

nailing jello to a tree. There is no way to define it and grab a hold of it."
Undocumented immigrants in South Florida are seldom caught even if

detected because there are too few agents to chase them and no place to put

them.

"If I get a call from a police agency that says they have 40 aliens in

custody, I can't do anything other than to tell them to set them free and wish
them a nice day," said Neal Richards, Border Patrol supervisor for the eight-
county region based in Riviera Beach.

"If you don't get inspected coming in and if you don't get caught

committing a crime, there is nothing that's going to happen to you. I hate to
see Florida becoming an alien sanctuary, but that's what's happening."

U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum, Florida's only congressman on the House

immigration subcommittee, says the INS is not enforcing the 1986 law that

forbids the hiring of undocumented workers.

While fines against employers was the enforcement backbone of the

amnesty act, the immigration service and Border Patrol agents in the past year
filed only 66 cases against employers in Florida for hiring undocumented

workers.

"We don't have the investigators out in the field and knocking on the

doors of businesses and inspecting fraudulent documents of the workers," said
McCollum, a Republican from Altamonte Springs near Orlando. "The immigration

service is not doing its job."

The immigration force in Florida consists of 25 immigration agents and 65 Border
Patrol agents. Their job is to police the hundreds of thousands of

employers and enforce all other immigration laws.

McCollum says the United States gives too many rights to undocumented

immigrants who gain a foothold on U.S. soil.

"What happens is that they are accepted here and given all these rights

and due process," McCollum said. "I favor doing it in a humanitarian way but

not letting them get into the system by expediting the process of removal."

EXAGGERATED CLAIMS

Advocates for immigrants have fought hard to win those rights and say

most of the fears expressed by McCollum and others are exaggerated.

Some advocates say the U.S. economy is creating the demand for the illegal flow
and that aliens contribute more than they take.

"People will want to come here no matter how many walls and fences we put

along the border," said Jonathan Fried, director of the American Friends

Service Committee in Miami. "Do we want them viciously exploited? Or do we

want to give them rights?"

Fried was enraged by the Oct. 18 deaths of seven Guatemalan sugar-cane

planters who drowned when their car flipped into a canal on a private, paved

road near a sugar mill. One victim was 15 years old.

Sugar industry officials said that they had no idea why the 15-year-old

was in the car and that the transportation was arranged by the workers, not

the company. The Florida Highway Patrol blamed the accident on the unlicensed,
inexperienced driver.

Immigrants who come to America without visas are among the county's most

productive workers, said Dan Kesselbrenner, director of immigration affairs

for the National Lawyers Guild.

"There are people who think they come and lead an easy life and are

ripping off the system," Kesselbrenner said. "That perception is as false as

the notion of the welfare Cadillac. Immigrants are working in jobs that

residents don't want to do."

The immigration service's Krome Detention Center south of Miami draws

the sharpest criticism from immigration advocates who say it is a prison for

people whose only offense is trying to escape oppression and poverty.

Immigrants caught trying to enter the country without a visa are held at the

center until they are deported or are granted temporary permission to stay

while they make a claim to remain in the country.

Miami attorney Ira Kurzban, a leading critic of the Krome center, said

Krome and other centers are bad political policy, a waste of taxpayer money

and inhumane. A large number of Krome residents are Haitian.

"The Haitians who have come here in the past 10 years don't represent

more than three weeks of people who are coming across the Mexican border,"

said Kurzban, general counsel and past president of the American Immigration

Lawyers Association.

Immigration officials say Krome keeps undocumented immigrants from

disappearing into the shadows of South Florida's ethnic communities. Kurzban

said detention could be replaced by a parole system based on the issuance of

short-term work permits.

The harsh detention policies represent the dilemma of the immigration

service. A U.S. Justice Department agency, its job is to both to keep

immigrants out and to help them get in.

"I don't think the immigration service knows what it is," Kurzban said.

"It should be two difference agencies."

THE CUBAN QUESTION

The immigration service is at the center of a debate over the treatment

afforded to undocumented immigrations of Cubans, who do not fear deportation,
and Haitians, who are intercepted at sea and sent home.

Immigration officials say Cubans also would be turned back, but there is

no method to return them to Cuba. By last week, more than 2,000 Cuban rafters
had entered the country this year, the U.S. Coast Guard said. More than 1,600
Haitians had been interdicted in 1991 and most sent back.

Cubans are given preferential treatment under a 1966 law that allows them to
apply for permanent residency after one year. That allows Cubans to bypass the
asylum process and simply wait out the year before seeking residency.

Florida's senators and congressmen are reviewing the plight of Haitian

immigrants in light of the Sept. 30 military coup in Haiti. Both senators,

joined by South Florida congressman, are calling on the Bush administration to
allow Haitians to stay and work without fear of deportation until the unrest

is over.

The immigration service, in Florida and across the country, stopped

forcibly deporting Haitians after the coup, said Carol Chasse, an immigration
official in Miami. The new policy means the 60 Haitians who entered the

country since the coup and any others who come can stay until further notice

but will not be given work authorization or other benefits, she said.

`IRON FIST' NOT WORKING

In addition to being criticized for enforcing unpopular policies, the

immigration service has been raked by auditors, political leaders and the

public for long lines at its offices, lost files, delays in making decisions

and bad management.

In testimony to Congress in June, INS Commissioner Gene McNary blamed the
problems on world events and three major changes in immigration laws since

1980. He said major adjustments in policy had to be made for the 1980 refugee
act, the amnesty program in 1987 and the new law effective at the beginning of
this month that rearranged visa preferences.

The lack of enforcement and fraud investigation is a problem of manpower

and other priorities, said Richard Smith, Florida district director for the

immigration service.

"The U.S. Attorney's Office in Miami is drowning in a major criminal

case," Smith said. "What are they going to prosecute? An immigration fraud

case or a multikilo drug case that involves a violent drug ring that has been
selling garbage on the street for years that has taken an untold number of

lives?"

Kesselbrenner, from the lawyers' guild, said the United States needs to

focus on improving economic and political conditions that pushes the immigrant
out of his country rather than trying to stop the tide of immigration by

barbed wire and harsh laws.

"The iron fist isn't going to work," Kesselbrenner said. "As long as

the United States thinks that immigration is only a question of enforcement,

it's going to continue to be out of control."

Smith defends the immigration service's detention center and throws up his hands
at the debate over preferential treatment of Cubans.

"I'm not a legislator, and I'm not a policy-maker," Smith said. "I just

enforce the laws."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  GUARDING THE DOOR: A FAILING IMMAGRATION POLICY. Second of a series. Ran
all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5/C)
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer (1) THE END OF ONE VOYAGE: Cubans, who can apply
for permanent residency after one year in the United States, receive special
treatment under a 1966 law. More than 2,000 of them have come to this country by
raft and boat this year, compared with fewer than 800 in all of 1989 and 1990.
These five adults told the U.S. Coast Guard patrol boat's crew that they made
the trip in 14 hours, using an oar to steer after they lost their rudder. Their
12-foot boat, La Nona, was found last week 5 miles south of Key West. From left
to right are Rogelio Marin Justiniani, Katya Gutierrez, Carlos Lazo Gutierrez
and Armanda Mara Justiniani. An unidentified man sitting on the small cabin
holds a 2- year-old child, Rogelio Rivera Justiniani. (2) AT THE CENTER: Richard
Smith, district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
Florida. `I'm not a legislator, and I'm not a policy-maker. I just enforce the
laws.' (3) 1991 file photo by GREGG LOVETT/Staff Photographer ANOTHER VOYAGE, A
DIFFERENT END: In April, three people drowned, and two were seriously injured
when their boat from Hispaniola capsized off Jupiter Inlet in heavy seas. Jim
Eigensee, Peter Earle (center) and Brandon Bower rushed to help one woman. This
year, at least 18 people from Cuba, Haiti and the Dominican Republic are
believed to have died in the waters off Palm Beach County and the Treasure
Coast. (4) C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer TWO MORE FAMILIES SAFE: A week ago,
Carlos Lazo and Katya Gutierrez, the couple at left, were on a U.S. Coast Guard
patrol boat with Rogelio Marin and Armanda Marin Justiniani, the couple in the
center; their son; and the unidentified amn at right. (5) JUST WAITING: Two days
later, Rogelio Justiniani and 2-year-old son, Rogelio Rivera, wait at Krome
Detention Center for their next steps to freedom.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 21, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

70 TRACK WORKERS ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.


Federal immigration officials say most of the 70 workers taken into custody at
the Meadowlands Racetrack had illegal entry papers.

The 64 men and six women, mostly grooms and walkers, were arrested Tuesday
during a 90-minute raid in the stalls and dormitories, said Allen Kampel, INS
supervisory special agent.

They were taken to the INS field office in Jersey City, N.J., for

processing.

Kampel said six of the workers had papers allowing them to be in the

country but not to work. Four are juveniles, ages 14 to 16. A majority-- 64

-- are from Mexico, with two from Peru, two from Guatemala, and one each from
Chile and the Dominican Republic, he said.

The illegal aliens face detention and an administrative hearing to

determine whether they will be deported, Kampel said.

Stable hands are employed by horse trainers, not the Meadowlands Racetrack nor
the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said track spokeswoman

Ellen Harvey.

The INS is cooperating with the U.S. Department of Labor to find out if

the illegal aliens were underpaid.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 27, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

N.Y. AIRPORT UNABLE TO STAUNCH FLOW OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


It used to be difficult to gain illegal entry into the United States.

Gaining illegal entry used to evoke images of families driving through

Mexico in vans, then sneaking by the Border Patrol in the dead of night.

Many still enter the United States by crossing the Rio Grande at night,

but there's no need for such a hassle. Anyone who wants to come to the United
States need only buy a plane ticket and arrive at New York's John F. Kennedy

International Airport.

The border here is open, according to Immigration and Naturalization

Service officials.

A flood of illegal arrivals at Kennedy, expected to exceed 10,000 this

year, has swamped INS detention facilities there.

As a result, virtually everyone is allowed in. Those without proper entry
documents, such as a tourist visa, are detained briefly at the airport and

told to appear at a hearing before an immigration judge-- 14 months later.

Most never show up.

"The numbers are so great now that the word is clearly out that there is

a lack of a deterrent at Kennedy airport," said INS district director William
Slattery. "As such, anybody in the world who wants to come can come."

`GROWING AND GROWING'

Last month, a record 1,250 illegal entrants, mostly East Asians and

Chinese, landed at JFK. Two years ago, no more than about 500 illegal entrants
arrived at the airport in any month. "We anticipate we'll be up to 1,500 by

March," Slattery said. "It's just growing and growing" as smugglers and

others discover "we just don't have the resources to prevent them from coming
in."

The numbers of these new airport arrivals are relatively small by

comparison with the hundreds of thousands of illegal entrants who cross the

Mexican border. But the number of people without proper documents who were

caught at airports more than doubled between fiscal years 1987 and 1990, to

43,580, according to INS figures.

INS officials say most of the illegal entrants board a plane, often with

fraudulent documents that they destroy en route. If they are assisted by a

smuggler, the smuggler gathers the documents on the plane so they can be used
again. Many illegal entrants come without any identification papers.

The INS accepts "whatever name they give us, whatever nationality they

want to claim," Slattery said. "So the fellow who purports to be a freedom

fighter from Afghanistan could be a taxicab driver from Cairo," he said.

"Here's the irony. We then give them a U.S. government document -- with a

number and picture and fingerprint on it-- to prove they are who they verbally
represented to us."

LIMITED SPACE

The New York INS office has space for only about 190 prisoners -- 90 at a jail
in Manhattan and 100 at a privately run jail in Queens.

By law, the INS cannot summarily return anyone who wants to enter the

United States. "We require an immigration judge to make a determination on

admissibility and most of these people claim asylum before the judge to slow

the process down," Slattery said. "The turnover (in detention) is so slow

that I can only introduce 20 new inmates a month. That's less than a day's

work. In this district, if you are not in detention, I cannot get you before

an immigration judge until 1993."

Los Angeles International Airport had a similar problem, according to the INS
district director there, Robert Moschorak. As many as 1,000 illegal

passengers arrived at Los Angeles in November 1990 and again the next month.

When a new detention center opened in early 1991, allowing the INS to detain

as many as 800 people, the number of new illegal entrants dropped to about 250 a
month.

"There is no question in my mind that word got back quickly to the

sending countries" that new arrivals would face long detention, Moschorak

said.

But as illegal entrants plummeted in Los Angeles, the numbers rose in New York
in what appears to be a global cat-and-mouse game.

NO EASY ANSWERS

Adding to the number of detention spaces in New York is not the best

solution, INS officials said. First, each bed costs about $100 a day. To pay

for the new beds, INS would likely have to cut back on airport inspectors.

Fewer inspectors would result in long lines and waits for the 10 million

passengers -- 5 million citizens and 5 million foreigners-- who arrive at

Kennedy each year.

INS officials have felt for years that the only long-term solution to

problems at the airports is to change the law-- allowing what is called

"summary exclusion" of illegal entrants. That would mean anyone applying

for admission would have a prompt screening of their request at the airport. A
determination would be made then as to whether the applicant should stay while
his or her claim is reviewed. The goal would be to sort out the frivolous

claims from the legitimate ones.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 9, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WILL HIRE 500 TO TIGHTEN BORDER SECURITY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department will hire 300 Border Patrol officers and 200

immigration agents to tighten border security and investigate crimes by

illegal aliens, officials said Saturday.

The new, uniformed Border Patrol agents will be deployed along the

U.S.-Mexico border in Texas and California to help stop illegal aliens and

drug smuggling, the Justice Department said.

The 200 new Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators will be

assigned to find and deport aliens and work with local police in cities that

have a large amount of violent crime attributed to drug trafficking gangs.

Fifty of the new INS criminal investigators will investigate employers who hire
illegal aliens in violation of the 1986 immigration law.

The initiative, to be announced by Attorney General William Barr during a
weekend trip to California, includes the creation of a National Criminal Alien
Tracking Center to keep tabs on aliens arrested for crimes in the United

States.

Congress recently streamlined deportation procedures for aliens convicted of
crimes. The Justice Department sought the provisions to make it easier to

deport aliens once they have finished serving prison terms.

There are 3,788 Border Patrol agents and 1,480 INS criminal agents who

chase illegal aliens, officials said. All but about 300 of the Border Patrol

agents are assigned to Southwest United States.

The new employees will increase the number of uniformed Border Patrol

officers by 7.9 percent and INS agents by 13.5 percent.

INS agents have been assigned to the Justice Department drug trafficking

task forces that investigate Asian, Jamaican and other foreign gangs involved in
illegal narcotics.

Barr also was to announce that the INS will hire an additional 690

employees to deal with legal aliens and travelers. The extra manpower is

expected to help reduce lines at border checkpoints and in district offices,

officials said.

The Justice Department will finance the new employees with a combination

of money collected from immigration fees, fines and money forfeited to the

government by convicted criminals.

Of the $22 million to be spent during the current fiscal year, $9 million will
come from fees and $13 million from either criminal fines or the asset

forfeiture fund.

The $36 million in the 1993 fiscal year will be financed from fees

collected by INS.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 16, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL ABUSES IMMIGRANTS, REPORT SAYS;
2 INCIDENTS AT RIVIERA OFFICE CITED

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 538 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents in Riviera Beach and across the country have

allegedly beaten, harassed and verbally abused suspected illegal immigrants,

according to a report that blames the agency's increasingly "militaristic"

role.

"Sealing Our Borders-- The Human Toll," compiled by the American Friends

Service Committee, documents alleged abuses in enforcement of immigration law in
South Florida and along the U.S.-Mexico border. Committee officials said

they received 1,274 reports of abuse from 392 persons between May 1989 and May
1991.

Of the agencies within the Immigration and Naturalization Service "the

Border Patrol is the number one abuser of its power," the Quaker organization
said in the report, released last month.

The committee's claim brought an angry response from INS spokesman Duke

Austin.

"We're insulted by that report," he said Friday. "That particular

organization has never said one positive thing about the Border Patrol in the
history of its existence."

Austin noted that the alleged cases of abuse cited by the committee are

reported anonymously with few specifics and no independent confirmation.

"The U.S. Border Patrol apprehends every year more than 1 million

people," Austin said. "On average, we get an alleged abuse for every 17,000

arrests. I challenge that immigrant-rights group to find a law enforcement

force in the world with comparable statistics."

Committee officials say the Border Patrol's drug-interdiction role-- added to
its other responsibilities in 1986-- has turned its agents into soldiers

willing to take violent measures to repel "the enemy"-- illegal immigrants.

The organization's report contains two incidents of alleged abuse at the

Riviera Beach Border Patrol station. In one June 1989 incident, an unnamed

Mexican man claims agents raised his hands behind his back while he was

handcuffed-- "making me double over with pain"-- and struck him in the

stomach and head.

In the second alleged incident, an unnamed Guatemalan man told committee

staff members that agents intimated he was gay and taunted him with derisive

comments while detaining him at the station.

The report also alleges that Border Patrol agents illegally searched

houses and trailers in Lake Worth in July 1989. Other anecdotal, anonymous

claims of abuse will be included in a report on Border Patrol activities in

Florida that committee staff members hope to release in a few months,

according to Jonathan Fried, director of the Committee's Florida Undocumented
Workers Program in Miami.

"We can't know every single case is absolutely the truth, but there is a

pattern emerging, and that pattern shows . . . they're mistreating people,"

Fried said.

Neal Richards, chief agent at the Riviera Beach Border Patrol office, said he
doubts there is any merit to the allegations Fried cites.

"My guys are professional," he said, adding that his agents started with

the Border Patrol in California, where they were conditioned by public

sentiment to deal carefully with suspected illegal immigrants.

"They worked in an environment where if they looked cross-eyed at an

alien, you had 14 liberal rights groups saying you did something wrong."

Richards oversees three Border Patrol agents who cover eight counties,

including Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 13, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS PROMISES TENT CITY `WON'T BE CONVENIENT' FOR BORDER CRASHERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


Immigration officials expect their plan to hold up to 10,000 illegal aliens in
tents will send a message to discourage an expected surge of Central

Americans seeking asylum.

Nicaraguans, Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans apparently forgot

about the agency's last show of force a year ago along the Mexican border,

says Gene McNary, the new chief of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
So tents and truckloads of beds and portable toilets are arriving to make good
on McNary's threat to detain up to 10,000 "border crashers" at a remote

detention camp northeast of Brownsville.

"It will be humane, but it won't be convenient," McNary said in

announcing the crackdown Wednesday. "It will not be as though you're staying

at the Ritz-Carlton. You will lose your freedom while you're here, and we

don't want to do that."

At least $11 million will go toward the initial effort of shifting Border Patrol
agents and immigration examiners from other parts of the country and

packing detainees into large vinyl tents with plywood floors.

INS officials said it probably would take at least 10 days before the

regular red-brick dormitories fill to their 1,600 capacity, making the tents

necessary.

Walner Hernandez, a 21-year-old Salvadoran detainee who came to this

country to find work and get away from the army as well as anti-government

guerrillas, said he thought word of the massive detention policy would take

hold in his country.

"I wrote my mother and told her don't recommend to nobody to come

illegally to the United States," Hernandez said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 11, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES AT CENTER ANGERED;
NICARAGUANS EXEMPT FROM DEPORTATION ORDER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


Tensions are high at the crowded immigration detention center where Central
Americans, except Nicaraguans, are being deported under strict new political

asylum measures, officials said.

More than 2,000 undocumented aliens were crammed into dormitories and

tents Friday at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's minimum-security
Port Isabel Service Processing Center, 20 miles northeast of the border city

of Brownsville.

"I think there is an increase in tension," said INS spokeswoman Virginia

Kice. "Our (detainee) population has increased fivefold in the past two

weeks."

FIGHTS, SLURS EVIDENT

Mark Schneider, an immigration attorney, said evidence of the tension

includes fistfights and ethnic slurs among the detainees.

Earlier this week, INS officials stopped allowing reporters and

photographers into the 315-acre compound to avoid increasing "the level of

excitement," Kice said.

"Our population is high, and our first responsiblity is the welfare of

our detainees and personnel," she said, but added there had not been any

violence at the center.

The detainee population for months remained below 450 at the rural

facility before the crackdown on asylum applicants took effect. On Feb. 21,

the INS started a speeded-up procedure in which asylum-seekers applications

are processed quickly and those denied refugee status are arrested and

detained. Unless they appeal their denial of asylum, detainees face quick

deportation.

70 ALREADY SENT HOME

Seventy Central Americans who were rejected for asylum under the new

measures and did not appeal have been flown back to El Salvador, Guatemala and
Honduras since Sunday when the deportations began, Kice said.

"We have not deported any Nicaraguans," she said. "The Meese directive

still stands."

Former U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese in July 1987 issued a directive

calling for special treatment of Nicaraguan political asylum cases, and for

INS officials to "encourage and expedite" their applications for work

authorization. Under the directive, few Nicaraguans have been deported unless
they had criminal records, because the INS considers Marxist-ruled Nicaragua a
totalitarian nation.

NICARAGUANS GET REFERRAL

The INS Harlingen District at Texas' southern tip is referring cases of

Nicaraguans denied asylum to the Justice Department in Washington.

Of 473 asylum applications processed since Feb. 21, only 36 had been

approved as of Friday morning, and 35 of the 36 people were Nicaraguans. The

other was a Salvadoran.

The INS began the get-tough measures in southern Texas to discourage

"frivolous" asylum applicants from traveling to the United States, INS

officials said.

Political asylum is granted to those able to convince the federal

government that they are fleeing persecution. The INS maintains most Central

Americans come for economic reasons and do not merit political-refugee status.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 5, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' COYOTE' SLIPS YOU UNDER BORDER PATROL'S NOSE

BYLINE: By BROOK LARMER, Christian Science Monitor News Service

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, MEXICO


Like many "coyotes" who smuggle illegal immigrants across the United

States' vast Southern border, Margarita is dressed in black: black shirt,

black jeans, black mascara.

Once evening comes, Margarita-- like the cunning coyote or prairie wolf,

these smugglers' namesake-- will be nearly impossible to trace as she guides a
Mexican woman and her three children to a safe house a mile across the border. A
seven-year veteran in the trafficking of human beings, Margarita waits

for nightfall-- and her $400 take-- in a popular "coyote" hangout here. Just

three blocks away is El Bordo, a river levee that has become the most popular
crossing on the 2,000-mile border.

Even as she slaps down a $100 bill for a 60-cent bowl of pork-rind stew,

Margarita knows that U.S. Border Patrol officers are already stalking the no

man's land beyond El Bordo with an impressive array of Land Rovers and all-

terrain vehicles. They are watching the pollos-- "chickens," as illegal

immigrants are called-- gather by the hundreds behind the fence that divides

the first and third worlds.

Most of all, they're waiting for the coyotes to make their move.

But like the millions of migrants who cross the border each year,

Margarita is less daunted by La Migra-- the U.S. Border Patrol-- than by

Mexican police who profit from the immigration racket. Indeed, coyotes owe

their existence to the Border Patrol's imposing presence -- and its inability to
stop them.

"La Migra can be fooled easily," says Margarita, claiming that she

hasn't been caught since January. Even then, posing as a migrant's wife, she

was released the same day-- despite the fact that she has committed a felony

under U.S. law nearly every night since she was 16.

"The (Mexican) police are much tougher," she says. "Every time they

catch me with a pollo they take $500 or whatever I have."

Police not only take about half of her $50,000 annual income. (She spends much
of the rest on alcohol and drugs.) Some also collaborate with the

estimated 20 smuggling rings in Tijuana that have turned immigration into a

international industry and made business difficult for "independent" coyotes

like Margarita.

Some poorly paid police officers are so corrupt, these smugglers claim,

that they apprehend northbound migrants arriving at the Tijuana bus terminal,
extort money, and then deliver them to the smuggling organizations for $30 to
$40 a head.

"They're taking our clients away," com plains an older coyote named

Valentin, sitting at the chipped linoleum bar of the smugglers'

haunt in the heart of Tijuana's red-light district. For dramatic effect, he

turns his empty pockets inside out.

Mafialike, family-run immigration organizations earn the nickname

apalabrados-- or "the appointed"-- by paying off police with anywhere from

$9,000 to $80,000 a month, according to smugglers and immigration experts

here. Most organizations can earn that much in one night. And a few groups,

whose operations spread across the world from Beijing to Bombay, India, can

earn that much from a single family of long-distance immigrants.

Most Mafialike organizations are not just protecting their turf but

expanding it.

The southern border has heightened its reputation as the world's back door into
the U.S. ever since the passage of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Patrol Act.
The law granted resident status to about 3 million illegal immigrants,

but it also beefed up border security and made employers hiring illegals

subject to prosection.

`TRUE TRAVEL AGENCIES'

In response to the stiffened requirements, some smuggling rings broadened their
connections with fly-by-night travel agencies in Central America that

advertise "trips to the U.S."

"They've transnationalized the business," says Mexican anthropologist

and immigration specialist Victor Clark Alfaro, noting that the U.S. detained
immigrants from more than 60 countries last year. "They have such a

sophisticated business vision that we're not just talking about coyotes with

three or four immigrants, but true travel agencies that can transport hundreds
of people every night."

According to Mexican border experts, Tijuana's immigration "industry"

generates anywhere from $100 million to $300 million a year in fees alone. The
standard rates are $100 to $150 for el brinco, the "hop" to the other side

of the levee; $300 to $400 for passage to Los Angeles; and up to $1,000 for

Central Americans or foreigners.

"Immigration is probably our fourth-largest industry," says Mr. Clark,

who speculates that it trails tourism, commerce and the booming assembly plant
or maquiladora industry.

NOW, NEW NEEDS

Indeed, when the 1986 U.S. legislation kept many potential migrants in

their hometowns waiting to see its effects, Tijuana's hotels, restaurants,

buses and sleazy nightclubs were left virtually empty.

But when migrants saw that U.S. jobs were still available, they boosted

the illegal immigration industry even more with their new needs: counterfeit

green cards and false documents for amnesty application. And with the

increased border surveillance, coyotes became even more indispensable.

"The more patrolling there is, the more demand there is for coyotes,"

says immigration expert Ofelia Woo Morales. "Despite the high prices (of

being smuggled), people keep migrating."

Back in the restaurant, Margarita pauses for a rare pensive moment when

asked about her future. She deftly sidesteps the question by saying the flow

of migrants will never stop-- not as long as there is a scarcity of work

opportunities in Mexico and an abundance of dreams over the border in El

Norte.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 7, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

US. SAYS NORIEGA SMUGGLED ALIENS, TOO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


U.S. immigration investigators say they expect Manuel Noriega to be charged with
being at the center of the largest alien-smuggling ring ever uncovered.

However, the U.S. attorney in Miami, where Noriega is awaiting trial on

drug-smuggling charges, said Wednesday no indictment was "currently planned

or contemplated."

An immigration investigator had said the alien-smuggling investigation was
moving slowly because of Noriega's drug trial, scheduled to begin in January.

Tens of thousands of Chinese, Cubans and other immigrants paid millions of
dollars to Panamanian officials to use that nation as an illegal gateway to

the United States and Canada, said Robert Harris, investigator for the

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The ring started as early as 1980, and about 4,000 Cubans used it to enter the
United States at Miami International Airport alone during the past seven

years, authorities said.

Panamanian officials charged from $10,000 to $20,000 for visas into

Panama, Harris said.

He said the highest prices were paid by refugees from China, while those

from Cuba, Hong Kong and other points paid somewhat less.

Sixteen thousand people were caught "in the pipeline" when the United

States invaded Panama in December, said Robert Penland, recently retired

assistant INS commissioner for anti-smuggling.

He said immigration officials could not recall any such state-operated

alien trade.

There is enough evidence to seek indictments, Harris said, but INS and

federal prosecutors decided to move cautiously because of the former

Panamanian dictator's protracted drug-smuggling case.

"We don't want to interfere with the current prosecution effort by the

United States attorney," he said.

Any indictment "could be after the trial," he said.

The U.S. attorney's office cannot comment on pending indictments or

investigations, spokeswoman Diane Cossin said Wednesday.

But she said federal prosecutors charged during a January bond hearing

that Noriega and a co-defendant, pilot Eduardo Pardo, helped smuggle aliens

into the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 8, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAHAMIAN SKIPPER FACES 3 VESSEL-HOMICIDE COUNTS

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Bahamian boat owner was charged Tuesday with three counts of vessel

homicide for his alleged part in a smuggling operation in which three

undocumented immigrants died off Jupiter Inlet Colony.

It marks the first time that vessel homicide charges have been filed in

Palm Beach County by the Florida Marine Patrol, investigator Frank Crowley

said. Previously, violators were charged with manslaughter. A new law for

marine incidents took effect last year.

Fredrick Leroy McCartney, 30, was the captain of a 31-foot boat that

capsized April 4 in heavy surf. Two Haitian women drowned and a man from the

Dominican Republic, who was pulled from the water, died later.

Two men from the Dominican Republic survived the ordeal with McCartney

and another Bahamian, Moxey Ainsworth, 18. Ainsworth was not charged.

Agents found a Haitian passport with no U.S. entry visa on the shore near where
the fishing boat capsized. They also found a counterfeit Puerto Rican

birth certificate, a Florida insurance identification card with a fake policy
number and a counterfeit Puerto Rican identification card on one of the dead.
McCartney is in federal custody in Miami after being charged with

smuggling immigrants, and he will be returned to Palm Beach County later this
week to face state charges, Border Patrol spokesman Neal Richards said.

Richards said he doubts the homicide charges will deter others from

smuggling undocumented immigrants.

"The amount of money to be made is from $1,000 to $3,000 apiece to

smuggle people 50 miles from the Bahamas," he said. "We only catch the ones

who get in trouble. A lot get through and make a lot of money."

McCartney will have to be tried on the state charges before he faces

charges of smuggling undocumented immigrants in U.S. District Court, Richards
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 21, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LEWIS FIGHTS TO KEEP BORDER AGENTS IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


U.S. Rep. Tom Lewis said Monday he will seek assurances from the

Immigration and Naturalization Service that it will not shift Border Patrol

agents from Florida to fight the growing tide of illegal aliens across the

U.S.-Mexico border.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary will meet with Lewis and local INS and

Border Patrol officials at the Port of Palm Beach today, apparently to discuss
his plan to redistribute Border Patrol manpower.

He has heard that some states that do not border Mexico will lose Border Patrol
agents under a review made by INS, but he says he hopes some would be

transferred to Florida, Lewis said.

"The Border Patrol is pivotal in dealing with illegal alien problems,"

said Lewis, R-North Palm Beach.

Border Patrol officers will not be transferred out of Florida, INS

spokesman Verne Jervis said in Washington Monday.

In a June 21 story in the Los Angeles Times, McNary was quoted as saying there
would be sweeping changes to add enforcement personnel along the

U.S.-Mexico border. McNary's plan is to narrow the role of the 4,000-employee
Border Patrol to arresting illegal aliens along the nation's frontiers and to
strip the agency of its roles in going after undocumented workers and

investigating smuggling.

In the Border Patrol's Riviera Beach office, nine agents have made cases that
resulted in 120 fines totaling more than $500,000 for companies that

hired undocumented workers in the past 22 months, Border Patrol officials

said.

Lewis faces Kevan Boyles, a lawyer from West Palm Beach, in the Sept. 4

Republican primary for the 12th Congressional District.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 29, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGH COURT WEIGHS SOUTH FLORIDA CASE ON ILLEGAL WORKERS

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 883 words


The U.S. Supreme Court will review a South Florida case today that could

determine whether thousands of illegal immigrant farmworkers will be allowed

to remain in the country.

The Rev. Frank O'Loughlin, director of migrant ministries for the five-

county Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach, said he is disappointed that

the court plans to examine a case he and a team of lawyers have won twice in

lower federal courts.

O'Loughlin will sit with the lawyers in the high-ceilinged courtroom

during arguments today. The case is one of only 25 the high court has

scheduled to hear in the 1990-91 term.

The ruling will affect the right of almost 300,000 illegal immigrants

-- including an estimated 8,720 farmworkers in Florida, Georgia and Alabama

-- to live in the United States. Seven lower court cases across the country

have been stayed awaiting the decision, expected in July.

The federal Immigration and Naturalization Service asked for the review,

arguing the U.S. District Court in Miami and the 11th U.S. Court of Appeals in
Atlanta did not have jurisdiction to examine and subsequently condemn the INS'
procedures.

The case stems from efforts by the diocese and hundreds of groups across

the country to help illegal farmworkers establish permanent residency under

the 1986 Immigration and Control Act.

The act authorized private groups-- in practice, often churches-- to

assist the farmworkers in documenting that they had worked in farm labor jobs
for at least 90 days in the 12 months before May 1, 1986.

The law shielded the groups' records from the INS and forbade use of any

information they collected as grounds for deporting their clients. After

review by groups such as one operated by the diocese, immigrants could decide
whether they wanted to seek residency at hearings before an INS caseworker.

According to congressional testimony, the procedure was set up to assure

the undocumented immigrants, already fearful of the INS, that they could come
out without risking automatic deportation.

Under the act, more than 3.1 million immigrants have become legal

residents since 1986.

Shortly after the groups began their work, O'Loughlin said he and others

noticed that applicants were being denied residency after only cursory

interviews.

The diocese's Migration and Refugee Services, run by O'Loughlin, and the

Miami-based Haitian Refugee Center Inc., sued the INS in U.S. District Court

in 1988. Seventeen immigrants who had been denied residency status also sued.
The diocese's 50-page brief to the Supreme Court says its parishes put

their "credibility at the service of the legalization effort," and when the

farmworkers were denied residency, that credibility was damaged.

The suit argued that the agency was denying applications for residency

after interviews without interpreters and that hearing officers were not

allowing applicants to rebut adverse evidence or present testimony from

witnesses.

Testimony before U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins showed the interviews with
INS officials weren't recorded or transcribed and that forms used to

evaluate the cases often were left blank. Some interviews with Haitians were

conducted by people who did not speak Haitian creole.

Applicants listing employers the INS suspected were frauds were summarily
denied.

Atkins ordered the government to provide translators and to allow the

immigrants to challenge evidence and call witnesses. He also ordered the INS

to use the evaluation forms. His order forced the INS to reopen 20,278 cases

in Florida, Georgia and Alabama. Since then, 11,558 of those immigrants have

been granted residency status, including the 17 who sued.

Although it complied with Atkins' order in August 1988, the INS appealed

the case to the 11th U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta, arguing the 1986 act

never gave the courts authority to force the agency to change its ways.

The appeals court panel, including Judge Robert Vance, who was killed in

December by a letter bomb, affirmed Atkins' order in July 1989.

The Supreme Court agreed in June to review the case.

In their 37-page brief, INS lawyers argue that the Immigration and Control Act
provided for internal procedures that were exempt from review by the

federal courts.

Because of the huge numbers of illegal immigrants expected to seek

residency under the act, Congress said only the results of deportation

hearings, not the procedures used in making the decisions, could be challenged
in federal court, the government lawyers maintain.

Lawyers and human rights authorities say the case may be the most

important immigration case to go before the court in a quarter century.

If the court agrees with the government's position, future lawsuits

challenging any INS procedure could be barred, said Arthur Helton of the New

York-based Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

"It's a question of basic fairness and may effectively dictate access to

the courts for these vulnerable people," Helton said.

Peter Hirsch of the American Immigration Lawyers Association in New York

said the INS was right in trying to stamp out "massive amounts of fraud" in

the agricultural worker legalization process, but "that doesn't give the

government the right to violate due process."

Hirsch said that if the government position on review of administrative

procedures is upheld, it could have "extraordinary consequences, and not just in
immigration."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 15, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EVICTED INS TO PROCESS ASYLUM SEEKERS AT PRISON

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, TEXAS


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday it will begin

processing political asylum applicants at a detention center outside the city,
which evicted the agency last week for health and fire violations.

A lawyer for Central American immigrants said the sight of a prison will

intimidate some people from applying for refugee status.

The applicants will not be locked in the minimum-security Port Isabel

Service Processing Center, but INS District Director Omer Sewell said

detention is being considered as a way to manage more than 100,000 Central

Americans expected to pour into southern Texas this year.

He said a dispute with Harlingen officials over garbage, human waste and

fire code violations at the asylum office in an old furniture store on the

edge of town speeded up previously made plans to move to the rural INS

detention center southeast of the city.

Sewell said the INS will go on using that building to process the

applications of people seeking amnesty under the 1986 immigration reform law.
Beginning today, however, all political asylum claims must be submitted at the
rural detention center.

The remote location and prison setting will discourage people from seeking
asylum, said Mark Schneider, an attorney with the Harlingen-based Proyecto

Libertad legal aid office for Central Americans.

"It's going to be a return to the old days, where people went underground
instead of working through the system," said Schneider, one of a group of

immigration attorneys who on Jan. 6 sued the INS over a policy that restricted
asylum-seekers to southern Texas while their cases for refugee status were

under review.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 13, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETENTION CENTER REMAINS CLOSED AFTER PLOT UNCOVERED

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Krome Detention Center for illegal refugees remained under lockdown

orders Friday after immigration officials uncovered a plot by detainees to

burn the facility.

Perry Rivkind, Miami's district director for the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, dispatched a 70-member riot squad to the camp in

western Dade County Thursday night and confined 740 detainees.

The lockdown came after camp officials found makeshift knives, matches and balls
of cloth the detainees had hidden as part of a plot to set fires and

incite a riot Sunday, Rivkind said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 31, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

KROME DETAINEES END 5-DAY-OLD HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Detainees at the Krome Detention Center in west Dade County ended a 5-day-

old hunger strike Friday after South Florida's immigration chief vowed to

review their political asylum cases.

About 100 undocumented immigrants, including Haitians, Chinese and

Jamaicans, milled about the center's courtyard since the peaceful protest

began Monday.

The detainees were seeking a change in U.S. immigration policy that prevents
them from being released on bond or to family members while their asylum cases
are pending.

Richard Smith, Miami district director of the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service, said he told the hunger strikers he would order a

review of asylum cases that have yet to go before an immigration judge. If INS
agents determine that the claims have merit, the detainees may be paroled,

Smith said.

The district director also promised that Washington will speed up the

appeals of asylum cases that have been denied.

Smith said the detainees mainly expressed frustrations over being in legal

limbo.

"They said to me: `Tell me to stay or tell me I'm going to be deported and

give me an airplane ticket so that I can go home.' "

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions....STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 24, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NUNS OPPOSE LAW

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, MINN.


Leaders of U.S. communities of Roman Catholic nuns have voted against

compliance with a part of a new federal immigration law that requires

employers to verify the legal status of undocumented workers.

The national assembly of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious

called for non-cooperation with the requirement, terming it a "concrete form

of employment discrimination."

An accompanying statement said about 3 million aliens in the United States were
not qualified for amnesty under provisions of the 1986 immigration act

and continue living "in the shadows, as an exploited underclass."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Religion News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 2, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REPEAL USDA RULING;
RULE REWRITTEN ONLY TO BENEFIT SUGAR GROWERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 275 words


Sugar cane is not a fruit or vegetable or perishable commodity. But cut

flowers and Christmas trees are.

You miss the distinction? It seems likely that almost anyone would. But

this is the way the U.S. Department of Agriculture has drawn up its guidelines
for deciding which foreign farmworkers are allowed to stay in this country.

Incredibly, a federal judge has ruled for the department.

Seasonal workers who can prove they harvested perishable crops in the

United States for 90 days during the year ending May 1, 1986, are entitled to
residency in the U.S. under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and
eventually can apply for citizenship. But sugar escapes the definition because
the USDA excludes vegetables that are eaten as a dessert.

The new definition was drawn up by the USDA under pressure from sugar

growers, who don't want to lose an estimated 8,000 experienced cutters who

came to this country under the H2-A guest-worker program.

In April, Judge Thomas F. Hogan in Washington had ruled that the USDA had acted
"arbitrarily and capriciously" in excluding cane cutters from the

Special Agricultural Workers immigration program and ordered the agency to

drop the exclusion or come up with a satisfactory explanation why sugar should
be excluded. So the USDA redefined the vegetable.

The redefinition circumvents congressional intent in passing the

immigration act. It should have been thrown out by Judge Hogan, but he

accepted it.

The ruling should be appealed. The odds seem extremely good that a higher court
will see the USDA's creatively crafted lexicon on behalf of one group of growers
for what it is-- blatant and illegal discrimination.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 1, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WELCOME GUIDELINES;
NEW INS POLICY SHOULD HELP MANY STAY IN U.S.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 231 words


New guidelines from the Immigration and Naturalization Service should make

it possible for thousands of worthy persons to remain in this nation.

Qualified illegal aliens have only until Nov. 30 to apply for legal

status, and many of them have been frustrated by what they and their defenders
see as unreasonable INS policies. The problem comes with satisfying INS that

they have worked in the United States for 90 days in the year ending May 1,

1986.

INS says it has no hard and fast rules, that it judges each case on the

total circumstances. INS critics say the agency insists on a level of

documentation that is not available for illegal aliens and that it

automatically rejects applications submitted through any crew chief suspected of
having submitted false claims in the past.

In response to a lawsuit filed by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach and
Miami's Haitian Refugee Center, INS has told workers in its southern

regional field offices to be "liberal and generous" in reconsidering nearly

20,000 cases, many if not most of them in Florida.

Presumably that means that INS is to give greater weight to affadavits

from co-workers, frequently the only form of documentation available to an

illegal alien. That means that thousands of people who have been living,

working and paying taxes in the United States can come out of hiding and have
their status recognized, which is as it should be.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 7, 1988 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INDIAN ALIENS WERE SEEKING `GOOD LIFE'

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A group of illegal aliens seized by immigration officials when a smuggler's boat
broke down off the Palm Beach County coast Monday included 10 Indian

laborers fleeing a Bahamian construction project for "the good life,"

officials said Tuesday.

George Martinez, 23, of New Orleans was charged with transporting the

Indians and a Jamaican into the United States. He appeared before U.S.

Magistrate Ann E. Vitunac on Tuesday.

According to an affidavit filed by U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brad Dupre,

Martinez was paid $2,000 by each of the Indians for passage from Freeport to

West Palm Beach. Martinez was carrying $7,600 in cash when he was arrested.

The aliens worked at Carnival Cruise Lines' Crystal Palace Hotel project

in the Cable Beach section of Nassau, according to the affidavit and an Indian
Embassy official in Washington.

"We were told by the Bahamas people some time back that some of our

people were absconding from work," said embassy official Nalla Kubendran.

"Actually, Indian laborers are working everywhere in the world where

it's cheaper to hire them than hiring laborers locally," said Kubendran. He

said a British construction company arranged for the workers through the

Indian government.

"It could be simply that they tried to come here to make the good life,"

he said.

No one answered the phone at the construction company's office at the

hotel site Tuesday. The first 200 rooms in the 750-room hotel are scheduled to
open next week, Carnival spokesman Dwayne Spitzer said.

Martinez left the Old Slip Marina in Riviera Beach Saturday and was

returning with the aliens aboard his 22-foot boat when he radioed the Coast

Guard in distress. When Coast Guard officials boarded the craft, they found

the 11 illegal aliens.

Vitunac ordered Martinez, a hospital worker in Louisiana, held on a

$100,000 corporate surety bond.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 25, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS PLANS 4-MILE DITCH AT BORDER

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government, concerned about illegal immigrants and drugs

smuggled across the border in trucks from Mexico, is planning to dig a ditch 4
miles long, 14 feet wide and 5 feet deep at the San Diego border to stop

vehicles from crossing into California, according to knowledgeable sources.

The ditch, to be constructed of earth and concrete, will be adjacent to

the port of entry at Otay Mesa, about 5 miles east of the main border crossing
point at San Ysidro, the sources said. It is a flat area where vehicles are

able to cross practically at will.

Told about the plan, advocates for immigrants expressed outrage, but a

Bush administration official defended the plan as necessary to prevent illegal
crossings.

The ditch "should be extremely effective in preventing vehicle traffic,"

said one adminstration official, adding that, in addition to apprehending

illegal immigrants, border agents expect to catch more drug smugglers as well.
Government officials estimate that 300 to 400 vehicles cross the border

illegally in the San Diego border area every month. "We can't get all of

them," said an official at the Department of Justice, parent agency of the

INS.

But Arnoldo Torres, national political director for the League of United

Latin American Citizens in Washington, called the plan "shocking, for it

takes on desperate proportions and will have negative consequences,

symbolically as well as substantively."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 25, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS PLANS 4-MILE DITCH AT BORDER

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government, concerned about illegal immigrants and drugs

smuggled across the border in trucks from Mexico, is planning to dig a ditch 4
miles long, 14 feet wide and 5 feet deep at the San Diego border to stop

vehicles from crossing into California, according to knowledgeable sources.

The ditch, to be constructed of earth and concrete, will be adjacent to

the port of entry at Otay Mesa, about 5 miles east of the main border crossing
point at San Ysidro, the sources said. It is a flat area where vehicles are

able to cross practically at will.

Told about the plan, advocates for immigrants expressed outrage, but a

Bush administration official defended the plan as necessary to prevent illegal
crossings.

The ditch "should be extremely effective in preventing vehicle traffic,"

said one adminstration official, adding that, in addition to apprehending

illegal immigrants, border agents expect to catch more drug smugglers as well.
Government officials estimate that 300 to 400 vehicles cross the border

illegally in the San Diego border area every month. "We can't get all of

them," said an official at the Department of Justice, parent agency of the

INS.

But Arnoldo Torres, national political director for the League of United

Latin American Citizens in Washington, called the plan "shocking, for it

takes on desperate proportions and will have negative consequences,

symbolically as well as substantively."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 28, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DITCH PLANNED FOR BORDER IRKS MEXICANS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Newspapers and politicians Friday said a proposed ditch along the Mexico-

U.S. border near San Diego is designed to deter immigrants and is an

unacceptable, offensivteign Ministry saetch was to o control migrayiacross the
border. The lso is one of the most popular crossing points for illegal

immigrants entering the United States.

The State Department said Friday the 4-mile ditch could keep out about 80
percent of vehicles crossing illegally into the United States in that area.

Spokesman Charles Redman said illegal crossings have led to "hot

pursuits, accidents, one accidental death and serious injuries to undocumented
aliens."

He said the Border Patrol has observed as many as 369 entries a month and that
the ditch could prevent about 300 such crossings.

Redman also said that the ditch would resolve problems caused by drainage from
new developments on the U.S. side.

The project's engineering and drainage aspects are not what bothers

Mexico, the government newspaper El Nacional said Friday.

"What causes uneasiness in Mexico is what it symbolizes: the aftertaste

of a certain spirit of lack of understanding and intolerance, as a material

obstacle to make the entrance more difficult for men and women who in the end
are only searching for work in a foreign land and frequently suffer bad

treatment and even aggression as a result of the atmosphere of hostility," it
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 4, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DITCH A SAPPY IDEA;
BURY IT, ALONG WITH PERSON WHO THOUGHT IT UP

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 305 words


There must be someone deep in the Washington bureaucracy assigned to think

of silly ideas for controlling illegal immigration across the U.S.-Mexico

border.

Ten years ago he came up with the "Tortilla Curtain," a 61/2-mile

stretch of 12-foot-tall steel fence separating El Paso, Texas, and Juarez,

Chihuahua. That idea was abandoned after a wave of protests from Mexican-

American groups, the Mexican government and some U.S. officials. Among the

criticisms was that the fence could cut off the toes of anyone who tried to

climb it.

Now, two presidents later, that bureaucrat is back. This time he wants to dig a
4-mile ditch in the San Diego area, ostensibly for drainage but in

reality to keep vehicles from crossing the border. Mexico doesn't like this

idea, either.

Granted, Mexico has a vested interest in northward migration. The flood of
Mexicans into the United States provides a relief valve for a nation suffering
chronic high rates of unemployment. Still, the government newspaper El

Nacional has a point regarding symbolism.

Contrary to what Robert Frost's neighbor said, good fences do not

necessarily make good neighbors. The ditch, like the curtain, suggests "a

certain spirit of lack of understanding and intolerance," to use the words of El
Nacional. It is a minor example of the attitude writ large by the Berlin

Wall.

On top of that, it is an exercise in futility. Does anyone seriously think a
4-mile ditch will make a border of nearly 2,000 miles more secure? The claim
that the ditch could keep out 80 percent of the vehicles crossing illegally

into the U.S. in that area ignores the reality that the border-crossers simply
would go elsewhere.

The ditch deserves nothing except a decent burial, right next to the

curtain. It would be wise, however, to leave some room for whatever idea this
bureaucrat comes up with 10 years from now.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 28, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THOUSANDS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS BELIEVED SHUTTLED ON EASTERN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Thousands of illegal aliens may have been shuttled across the country on a

daily Eastern Airlines flight from Los Angeles to New York, an official said

Monday after 79 people were apprehended.

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service apprehended the

suspected illegal aliens shortly after Eastern Flight 80's arrival for a

stopover at Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport.

"We believe this is one of the largest operations we've conducted that

involves illegal aliens on board commercial aircraft" in the United States,

said Thomas Fischer, district director of the Atlanta INS office.

"This may be part of a massive alien smuggling operation," he said,

adding that the INS would continue to investigate.

Investigators believe illegal aliens had been aboard the same Eastern

flight nearly every day for the past 30 days, said Tom Thomas, an INS

spokesman in Atlanta. "It appears at this point from our sources that it's

almost a daily occurrence," he said.

He estimated that thousands had been moved across the country on Eastern

airliners. He said authorities did not know how they entered the country.

Thomas said Eastern had cooperated fully in the investigation.

"We don't in any way connect Eastern and don't want to intimate that they were
even remotely involved at this point," Thomas said.

In Miami, Eastern Airlines spokesman Virginia Sanchez said, "All I know

is that the INS had told us they'd be monitoring a flight this week and, of

course, we cooperated with them."

The suspected aliens taken off Monday's flight included 39 from Mexico, 22 from
Guatemala, 13 from the Dominican Republic, three from El Salvador and one each
from Honduras and Ecuador. They were to be transferred to INS centers in Florida
and Texas for deportations, Thomas said.

Thomas said some of the aliens paid smugglers up to $4,000 for a package

deal, although authorities don't know what that deal included other than air

fare from California to New York.

One alien was Juan De La Cruz-Rodriguez, 34, who said he wanted to make

money to send to his wife and three young sons in the Dominican Republic. He

told The Atlanta Journal that a smuggler in Mexico helped him and about a

dozen others cross the border, then arranged to have them transported by

flatbed truck to Los Angeles.

He said he sold his truck to raise part of the money and gave the smuggler
almost $1,000. He held up a quarter and said, "That's all I have left."

Thomas speculated that Eastern's Flight 80 might have been popular because no
transfers were involved and rates might have been cheaper.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Color photo ran 1A

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 ANDY SHARP/Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service SUSPECTED ALIENS APPREHENDED
Seventy-nine suspected illegal aliens were apprehended Monday at Atlanta's
airport. Officials believe thousands have been shuttled aboard Eastern planes
from Los Angeles to New York in a massive alien smuggling operation. Antonio
Ozuna; his wife, Herlinda Duarte; and their son, Edwuin, await instructions
Monday at the immigration office. STORY, 3A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 1, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

69 SUSPECTS HELD IN SECOND RAID ON EASTERN FLIGHT

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Sixty-nine illegal aliens were arrested as they prepared to board the same

Eastern Airlines flight that immigration agents had raided on its previous

trip, snaring 79 illegal aliens, authorities said Tuesday.

In the second sweep, at Los Angeles International Airport late Monday,

agents also nabbed a Mexican they described as a principal in the alleged

smuggling operation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 2, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL ALIENS TAKEN OFF JET IN CHARLOTTE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C.


U.S. immigration agents apprehended 27 more suspected illegal aliens

Wednesday on a flight bound for New York City, bringing to 175 the number

detained in a three-day government crackdown.

INS agents, acting on a tip from a regular commuter on the Piedmont

Airlines flight, were waiting for the 25 males and two females shortly before 7
a.m. during a stopover at Charlotte-Douglas International Airport.

The group on the flight, which originated in Phoenix, Ariz., included two
Mexicans, eight Brazilians, 14 El Salvadorans and three Ecuadorans, an INS

spokesman said.

The bust was part of a three-day crackdown against alien smuggling rings

that netted 175 suspected illegal aliens in Charlotte, Atlanta and Los

Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 8, 1989 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

54 WORKERS ARRESTED AS ILLEGAL ALIENS;
JUPITER CONTRACTOR UNDER INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: By Mary C. Williams, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: PALM CITY


A jupiter labor contractor responsible for providing manpower to large

agricultural operations is under investigation for allegedly hiring more than 50
illegal immigrants tp pick vegetables at a farm in Palm City, immigration

officials said Wednesday.

Roy Rodruguez, who officials said is the target of the federal

investigation, could not be reached for comment at his Jupiter office

Wednesday. He was out of town, an employee said, and wasn't expected to

return until next week.

Officials said more labor contractors are expected to be included in the

investigation as federal agents begin a crackdown on those who knowingly hire
illegal or undocumented immigrants. The practice is a violation of the 1986

Immigration Reform Act and could result in fines ranging from$1,000 to$10,000 on
each charge.

Neal Richards, head of the U.S. Border Patrol's regional office, said

federal agents arrested 49 Guatemalan and Mexican farm workers in May after

obtaining a search warrant for Tropical Plantaion Farm.

Four weeks earlier, five workers were arrested at the farm after none

could produce identification papers required by the Immigration and

Naturalization Service for all resident aliens and those applying for

residency, Richards said.

More than 75 percent of the workers arrested over the past two months live in
Indiantown.

"As a result of these arrests, we've got ongoing investigations against

the employers for violating the 1986 reform act," Richards said Wednesday.

Until recently, only businesses had been targeted by the agency. Now

labor contractors caught bringing in these workers will be cited, Richards

said.

Mecca Farms Inc. of Boynton Beach, a major vegetable grower, leases the

Palm City farm. but company executives said Rodriguez was responsible for

hiring the workers. The company has 10 farm operations in Palm Beach County

and the Treasure Coast. Rodriguez is responsible for all of the northern

farms, officials said.

Rory Schwabb, the office manager at Mecca's main office, said the company needs
about 300 to 400 laborers a day to pick tomatoes and peppers. but the

company was not aware that some of the workers were arrested last month, he

said .Meanwhile, most of the Mexicans arrested in the sweep are being held in
the Krome Avenue detention center in Miami, waiting to be returned to Mexico,
Richards said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 17, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HONG KONG OFFICIAL BACKS REPATRIATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


The governor of this British colony Friday criticized countries that oppose
forcibly repatriating some Vietnamese boat people, saying they are acting

illogically and inhumanely.

Gov. David Wilson spoke with reporters after returning from an

international conference on boat people in Geneva. There, the United States,

the Soviet Union and Vietnam opposed calls for forced repatriation of boat

people who are not considered refugees.

Britain and Hong Kong support the repatriation.

Hong Kong is swamped with about 30,000 boat people. The government says

many are not refugees fleeing political persecution but illegal immigrants

seeking better economic conditions.

Wilson said there are many countries that "simply will not face facts."

He said such countries agree there's no question of resettling in third

countries people who are not refugees, but at the same time they oppose

forcing such people back to Vietnam.

The head of the relief agency Oxfam Hong Kong, Chris Bale, said there is

no alternative to forced repatriation because the Vietnamese "really do not

want to go back."

Those who are not refugees should be returned just as illegal immigrants

from any other country are returned, he said. He said many Vietnamese were

suffering psychological problems from being confined in the camps for years.

Starting in June 1988, Hong Kong tried to curb the influx by a screening

the Vietnamese and separating refugees, who are eligible for resettlement in

the West, from other groups who are supposed to return home. Only 143

Vietnamese have gone back voluntarily even though the United Nations gives

financial aid for people to return.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 31, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS ISSUED FAKE SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Massachusetts welfare workers assigned hundreds of dummy Social Security

numbers to illegal immigrants to enable them to receive millions of dollars in
state benefits.

Federal officials said Wednesday there's nothing illegal about it. But

Gov. Michael Dukakis says it has to stop because it goes against his new

efforts to crack down on aid to illegal aliens, which he says the state no

longer can afford.

The practice started after Dukakis issued a 1985 executive order barring

state agencies from asking people applying for state services about their

citizenship status.

But citizens or not, the computerized welfare records required a case

identification number for each person, and that had to be a nine-digit number
since for most people the ID is the same as their Social Security number.

Dukakis' legal counsel, Don Stern, said the law setting up the general

relief program, a state-financed welfare program for people who don't qualify
for federal welfare, left it up to the Welfare Department if applicants didn't
have a Social Security number.

Welfare spokeswoman Michal Regunberg said the department issued its own

control numbers.

Welfare Department attorney Thomas Noonan said the dummy numbers started

with a three-digit prefix not used by the Social Security Administration.

Regunberg said those control numbers would have been rejected by Social

Security Administration computers, so they could not have been used to obtain
federally subsidized welfare or by an illegal alien seeking a job.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 3, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LEWIS INCENSED AT FLORIDA'S LACK OF BORDER PATROL FORCES

BYLINE: Larry Lipman

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 764 words


Can you imagine that Florida is classified as a non-border state by the

Immigration and Naturalization Service?

INS officials swear it has nothing to do with their decisions on

allocating Border Patrol agents and resources, but Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North

Palm Beach, is not convinced.

Mr. Lewis believes there is a mind-set at INS that places Florida in a

lower priority than other states and affects decisions on how many agents to

assign and how much money to spend in Florida.

"We have a serious problem with the lack of personnel in the Border

Patrol in Florida," Rep. Lewis said. "I think we're getting shortchanged on

funds. It just galls me that when you talk to the Border Patrol (in South

Florida), they can't even make the arrests they have to make," because of

inadequate manpower and detention facilities.

"Certainly the tremendous influx of people we have coming into Florida

from the Caribbean and Central America should give us a better priority than I
think we have."

The problem of illegal aliens is particularly acute in parts of Palm

Beach, Martin, St. Lucie and Indian River counties, Mr. Lewis said.

Communities of illegal aliens from various countries-- Haiti, the Bahamas,

Mexico, Guatemala and elsewhere - can be found in those counties.

Mr. Lewis said he is concerned that many illegal aliens are engaged in

narcotics smuggling or are users of illegal drugs. Further, he says the

illegal aliens often take the jobs of U.S. residents or aliens who have proper
authorization to live and work-- particularly in the groves-- in Florida.

"We have thousands of people standing in line waiting for years to come

in legally," Mr. Lewis said. He believes those who enter illegally should be

deported.

The Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach is one of five in Florida. Its

eight agents are spread woefully thin trying to cover eight counties-- those

previously mentioned plus Okeechobee, Highlands, Glades and Hendry counties.

"We're getting inundated with aliens, primarily from the Bahamas, and I

don't have the people or the equipment to handle it. We have to rely on other
agencies for help," said Neal Richards, head of the Riviera Beach office.

Marshall Metzgar, chief of the Border Patrol's southeast region, said

Florida is in a "Catch-22" situation: it doesn't get more manpower and

resources because it doesn't arrest enough illegal aliens; but it can't arrest
more illegal aliens because it doesn't have enough manpower and resources.

One of his biggest problems is lack of detention space to house the

illegal aliens the Border Patrol arrests. When Miami's Krome Detention Center is
full-- as it usually is-- the patrol turns to the sheriffs of local

counties and uses their jails. But virtually all of the illegal aliens held in
those jails have committed crimes-- usually drug-related-- and there is not

enough room to house those who have merely entered the United States

illegally.

Mr. Metzgar hopes that the INS will establish two additional detention

facilities for illegal aliens in Florida, but that doesn't seem likely anytime
soon.

Rep. Lewis believes the root of the problem is INS' decision that the U.S. land
border should be the top priority, even though Florida is a prime haven

for illegal immigrants who enter by boat.

INS spokesman Duke Austin and William Bonnette Jr., acting assistant

commissioner for the Border Patrol, said the designation of border and non-

border states was made in response to congressional queries about activity

along the land border between the U.S. and Mexico.

According to them, Border Patrol agents are stationed in the areas with

the greatest activity, and that is along the U.S.-Mexico border. The San Diego
office, for example, processes as many illegal aliens in one week as the Miami
office does in a year, they said.

Florida got a boost in the number of authorized Border Patrol agents in

1986, an increase from 57 to 89 authorized agents. But because of a hiring

freeze, there are only 80 agents in the state now-- a 10 percent shortage.

INS officials admit they don't have enough agents in South Florida or

enough facilities to house those aliens that are-- or could be-- arrested.

"That's not unique to Florida," Mr. Austin said. "I would like to tell

you we have everything we need, but that's not the case. Our borders are not

secure-- they are not and have not been for many, many years. We're not here

to say we have won that battle."

Rep. Lewis said he intends to meet soon with acting INS Commissioner James Buck
to convince him that Florida should have a higher priority in that

battle.

* Larry Lipman is the Washington reporter for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 26, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSE VOTES REPRIEVE FOR SOME ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House, in a move that could affect more than 1 million aliens residing

in the United States, voted Wednesday to suspend for three years the

deportation of illegal immigrants from three nations torn by civil strife

-- China, El Salvador and Nicaragua.

The legislation represents an effort on the part of aliens from El

Salvador and Nicaragua to capitalize upon the sympathy that Americans have for
Chinese students who do not want to return to their homeland in the wake of

the June massacre in Tiananmen Square.

Sponsors of the bill hope to soften Senate opposition to legalizing aliens

from the two Central American countries by adding Chinese immigrants to the

bill.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 19, 1990 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MEXICAN ARRESTED ON IMMIGRATION CHARGES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Mexican man with a temporary residency visa appeared before U.S.

Magistrate Ann E. Vitunac on Thursday on charges he sold immigration papers to
illegal aliens.

Raul Enriquez Vaca, 44, was arrested Thursday morning at his home at 906

S. 13th St. in Fort Pierce, by U.S. Border Patrol agents, said Agent Neal A.

Richards.

Richards said agents investigating an unusual number of illegal aliens in
Okeechobee County after the December freeze uncovered Enriquez's alleged sale of
immigration papers known as I-94s and work authorization stamps.

Vitunac scheduled a bond hearing for today.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  In Brief / Also ran Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 31, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ALIENS NOT TARGETED

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 60 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. Roman Catholic bishops have been assured that the Immigration and

Naturalization Service won't seek information on undocumented aliens turned up
in the 1990 census.

This will allay fears about participation among undocumented people and

help insure that all minorities will be counted, said Nicolas DiMarzio, head of
the church's migration-refugee services.\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Religion News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 19, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NO EASY ROAD TO ASYLUM FOR GUATEMALANS

BYLINE: ROB HIAASEN

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 12F

LENGTH: 260 words


Most Guatemalans in Palm Beach County are illegal aliens.

Guatemalans can work legally after applying for political asylum, but the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted only 200 Guatemalans

asylum since 1985, compared with 13,716 Nicaraguans. The government can allow a
Guatemalan to work while the asylum case is pending-- a process that can

take more than a year.

Guatemalans either have not applied for legal status, are waiting for a

ruling on their asylum application, or have had their asylum denied and are

deportable, an immigration official says. In 1988, about 1,600 Guatemalans

were deported nationally.

To apply for asylum, area Guatemalans need rides to Miami. The INS office in
Riviera Beach doesn't handle this business.

"Most of these claims are based on economic need, but there is no such

thing as economic asylum," says George Waldroup, assistant district director

of the INS in Miami.

"The United States is not open to anyone who wants to come and work."

The thousands of Guatemalans who came to Florida in the past decade say

they fled persecution. In Guatemala, they were considered the base of rebel

support against the military government before Vinicio Cerezo was elected

president in 1985 and his democratic government was installed.

The Guatemalans were accused of working for leftist guerrillas and scores were
and are tortured and killed, international human rights groups reported. "Asylum
isn't based on the past," Waldroup says. "Just because you are

a Guatemalan doesn't mean you were singled out for persecution."

-- ROB HIAASEN

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 13, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS GUARDS SUSPECTED OF ROBBING ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A gang of off-duty U.S. immigration guards masqueraded as law enforcement

officers and stole from people they thought were illegal aliens or drug

dealers, prosecutors said Wednesday.

Indictments unsealed Wednesday charged four Immigration and Naturalization
Service guards with robbing and burglarizing eight "legitimate citizens" who

reported the crimes, District Attorney Robert Morgenthau told reporters.

But they are suspected of committing dozens of armed robberies during the past
year, preying mainly on people unlikely to go to the police.

"There are probably victims who are drug dealers and who are illegal

immigrants," Morgenthau said. "But it's more difficult to get them to

cooperate."

Gang members, who called themselves the "Nasty Boys," posed as FBI or

INS agents or city police, usually wearing uniforms and carrying badges and

phony warrants, prosecutors said.

They forced themselves into homes by telling their victims they were on

government business, although their only real jobs were as guards at the INS

detention center in lower Manhattan.

Morgenthau said other guards from the center were involved, but he would

not speculate on a number. INS spokesman Charles Troy said the center employs
about 80 guards, supervisors and guard managers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 26, 1990 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRATION CARD SUSPECT IS AN INTERPRETER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 156 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Boynton Beach man arrested Monday on charges that he sold fake

immigration cards to illegal aliens owns an interpretation business in that

city, officials said Tuesday.

U.S. Border Patrol agents said they are unsure if Wilner Jules, 23, used

the business, People Express Services, to find clients.

Jules, of 317 N.E. 10th Ave., applied for a service license from Boynton

Beach in June. The license to run the business from 402 E. Ocean Ave. expires
Sunday, a city clerk said.

Officials do not know what languages Jules' business offered to interpret, but
the native of Haiti speaks creole.

Jules faces a maximum of five years in a federal prison if convicted of

selling the forged cards for up to $3,000 each. Agents speculate that his

victims may number in the hundreds and that aliens came to Jules after hearing
about him by word of mouth.

Jules, who is represented by a federal public defender, remains in jail

until a detention hearing Friday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 8, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL ALIENS ABUSED AT BORDER, GROUPS SAY

BYLINE: By NANCY NUSSER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


On a warm September night, a U.S. Border Patrol agent with a .357 Magnum

shot and killed a Mexican teenager who was trying to sneak into California.

Victor Manuel Mandujano was with friends, all hoping to cross the border

just south of San Diego. But before they could make it, they were spotted by

the agent.

San Diego police say the youth threw rocks at the Immigration and

Naturalization Service agent. A scuffle ensued, Mandujano tried to wrestle the
gun from his hand, and the agent shot him, police say.

But his friends say he had been trying to run back into Mexico when he was
caught and shot in a clear-cut case of police brutality, said Roberto

Martinez, the California coordinator for the American Friends Service

Committee.

"He pulled him down, then kicked him, then hit him and shot him at least

twice," said Martinez, whose group monitors abuse of immigrants.

Mandujano is among scores of Latin American illegal immigrants who have

been killed, beaten or abused by U.S. officials and civilians along the Texas,
California and Arizona borders, human rights groups and Mexican officials say.
Nearly 60 Mexicans have been beaten, harassed or robbed by U.S.

authorities since 1984, according to lists compiled by Mexico's Foreign

Ministry and Martinez's group.

At least another 22 Mexicans were shot and killed, they say.

Police and INS agents often are blamed by immigrant rights groups for the
violence, although they contend they were not abusing their authority.

The number of cases of abuse is small in comparison to the nearly 1

million would-be illegal aliens the INS estimates they have caught during the
past fiscal year.

But some experts say anti-Hispanic violence by civilians has been

increasing because of intensified prejudice in the United States.

They point to new militant groups, such as Light up the Border, which has taken
radical measures to keep undocumented immigrants out of California.

At night, members of the group have driven to the stretch of border near

San Diego, where hundreds of thousands of Mexicans each year cross into

California. Then they flip on their headlights, flooding the border with

brilliant light intended to scare Mexicans back into their own country.

"There is a clear rise in intolerant, racist currents at the border,"

said Luis Ortiz Monasterio, a director for Mexico's National Commission of

Human Rights.

Prejudice has mounted as immigration has increased, he said.

No single institution in the United States or Mexico systematically

records all cases of reported abuse. So the figures available are thought by

human rights experts to represent only a fraction of the cases.

Cases of civilian crimes against Mexicans are even less systematically

recorded.

But INS spokesman Duke Austin said many illegal aliens are armed, and they shoot
at INS agents.

"I don't know of a single case in which one of our agents was found in

abuse of authority," Austin said.

Maria Jimenez, national director for the American Friends Service

Committee, said she was able to document only two Texas cases last year in

which Mexicans were shot by Border Patrol agents.

Yet a Border Patrol chief told her he had informally recorded 68 shootings in
the course of two years, she said.

Earlier this year in California, Border Patrol agents opened fire on a van
holding 11 Salvadoran immigrants, Martinez said. A woman was shot in the arm,
and a young boy was hit in the throat, she said.

An INS spokesman said the agent said the van was moving toward him, and he felt
threatened.

A Bush administration source said U.S. officials are investigating 29

cases brought to their attention by Mexican officials.

INS spokesman Austin said much of the crime "is perpetrated by border

bandits."

"Like it or not, it's Mexicans abusing Mexicans," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 4, 1990 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

TAKE ILLEGALS OFF WELFARE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 143 words


A professor of economics at the University of California-San Diego

estimates that the U.S. gross national product would be $12 billion higher

this year and every other year of immigrants' working lives, if the immigrants
who are arriving in the 1980s were as skilled as immigrants arriving in the

1960s.

Congress accedes to every demand from special-interest groups on our

immigration system. By default,Congress is reducing the per-capita money for

better education of American children, for better health care for America's

disadvantaged, for better public housing and other government-financed

projects.

Immigration policy is tied to almost every facet of government.

Hence, I urge our congressmen to remove illegal aliens from welfare

unemployment and subsidized public housing, and also to aggressively audit

employers for hiring illegal aliens.

William Lipton

Boca Raton\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SCHOOL COUNT SCARES IMMIGRANTS;
UNDOCUMENTED PARENTS FEAR BEING TRACED THROUGH KIDS

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


More than a dozen undocumented immigrants have said they fear a new state

law requiring their children's Social Security numbers to be given to schools
will lead to the parents' deportation, a West Palm Beach lawyer said.

Gene DeVore said many of his clients seeking legal residence in the United
States have called him, wondering whether to pull their children from school

rather than risk discovery.

Under a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, the children of undocumented

immigrants are entitled to attend public schools. But Florida law requires

that students be identified by Social Security numbers, beginning this fall.

A language survey being conducted in Palm Beach County schools this month asks
that parents submit their children's Social Security number or alien

number. The letters sent to parents also ask that the survey form be returned
even if the child lacks a Social Security number.

"Some of my clients are getting the impression that their children won't

be able to attend school without a Social Security number," DeVore said.

"The trouble is, they may jeopardize themselves if they try to get a

number."

School Board Attorney Abbey Hairston said letters sent home by some

principals gave the wrong impression. "All we're supposed to do is request a

number," she said. School officials are trying to create a numbering system

for those who will not have Social Security numbers next fall.

"We're trying very hard not to be put in the position of being a

reporting agency for the immigration service," Hairston said.

School officials are not trying to discourage the children of undocumented
immigrants from attending classes, said Joanne Kaiser, director of elementary
education.

She said school officials have had several calls from worried parents

about the requirement.

"We certainly have no intention of trying to find out who is legal and

who is illegal," she said.

"Even if they don't have a number, we can't deprive them of an

education," Kaiser said.

Officials have little idea how many children of undocumented immigrants go to
school.

Hairston is supervising the drafting of a bilingual letter to the parents of all
100,000 public school students this spring, advising them to provide a Social
Security number but also noting that children without numbers may still attend
school.

"We don't know if that's going to be sufficient," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 15, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS FEAR SOCIAL SECURITY LAW FOR STUDENTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Though a new state law requiring public school students to have Social

Security numbers is frightening undocumented immigrants, school officials say
the requirement won't keep any children from attending school.

"Parents are concerned about this," said attorney Gene DeVore. "Some

felt their child was being discriminated against because he doesn't have a

Social Security number."

Under a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, children of undocumented

immigrants are entitled to attend public schools. But Florida law requires

that all students supply the numbers, beginning in fall.

Undocumented immigrants fear that applying for a number will result in

their deportation, DeVore said. Other parents have complained that seeking the
numbers is an invasion of privacy.

Last week, School Board attorney Abbey Hairston said students who don't

supply numbers when they register in the fall won't be excluded from school.

They will be given another student number.

The numbers are being used to standardize record-keeping in the state and make
electronic transmission of records easier.

-- TIM O'MEILIA

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  UPDATE / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 14, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS PUT BURDEN ON BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Almost weekly, the U.S. Border Patrol unit stationed at the Port of Palm

Beach gets reports of makeshift rafts beached along the 120 miles of shoreline
it patrols.

To Agent Neal Richards, that means only one thing: Undocumented immigrants have
illegally entered the country after being smuggled in, mainly from the

Bahamas.

For Richards and the four agents he commands, the situation is

frustrating, he said.

Their 23-foot patrol boat, powered by a 225-horsepower engine, has been

undergoing maintenance and repairs for the past two months and just went back in
the water Friday.

Patrols will go on intermittently day and night, Richards said. "We have

information on specific boats we're looking for. Our intelligence shows a

large number of Indians and Haitians in the Bahamas awaiting transport here."
Many of the immigrants landing illegally seem to have plans for someone on shore
to pick them up, he said.

"We've had witnesses tell us they call cabs in Phil Foster Park after

being dropped there, or that vans pick them up," Richards said. "But a lot

of them just walk away, blend into the community and disappear."

Although large numbers are successful in getting through, 10 people died this
year trying to enter the country through Palm Beach County.

Four people from Haiti and the Dominican Republic drowned north of Jupiter Inlet
in April when a smuggler's boat overturned in heavy surf.

And six men died of heat stroke when they stowed away in a container in

July on a cargo ship that sailed from the Dominican Republic to the Port of

Palm Beach.

The Border Patrol appreciates the support it gets from the Florida Marine
Patrol, the Coast Guard and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's marine unit,

Richards said, but he acknowledges they have their own duties.

"We have a liquid border here with other countries and the only real way

to patrol it is by boat," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 6, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LET'S STOP BEING SANTA TO THE WORLD

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 149 words


The Refugee Act for Political Asylum should be repealed. It has become a

failure and has resulted in a flood of illegal aliens attempting to enter the
United States through frivolous claims of physical persecution in their

countries. The liberal do-gooders are using it to inundate this country with

cheap labor without regard for the millions of unemployed American citizens,

lawful resident aliens, the homeless, the hungry, the taxpayers and the

welfare programs that already are foundering with welfare payments.

Those who advocate open immigration must face reality and pay for the cost of
illegal aliens in our custody, not the taxpayer. Write to Congress to

correct our present loopholes and trapdoors in the maze of immigration

policies, and vote for stronger employer sanctions to eliminate employment of
illegal aliens in the U.S. Let's stop playing Santa Claus to the world.

W.R. Stoltz

Lake Worth\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: CARTOON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 15, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

10 CITED IN $650,000 IMMIGRATION SCAM;
OFFICIALS: ACCUSED PAID FOR FORGED DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: By ARTHUR BRICE, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Federal officials revealed a sting operation Friday that netted more than

$650,000 in bribes to an undercover immigration agent and resulted in the

arrest of nine people accused of smuggling Asians into the United States.

The indictment, returned Dec. 17, charges the eight with conspiracy and

bribery in an international scheme that brought illegal aliens-- some willing to
pay $50,000 for the immigration papers -- into Georgia, Florida, New

Jersey, Texas, California and North Carolina.

The arrests occurred Thursday in Tampa, Atlanta and Los Angeles.

A 10th suspect, Jung Hsi Hsueh, 35, remained at large late Friday.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials also have detained 31 of 49
immigrants identified as receiving illegal documents.

The immigrants were caught in San Francisco; Dallas; Newark, N.J.; and

Charlotte, N.C.

The immigrants who came from Hong Kong, Malaysia and Taiwan.

A 39-count indictment unsealed Friday in Atlanta by U.S. Attorney Joe

Whitley charges seven foreign nationals and three naturalized American

citizens with bribery and conspiracy to obtain INS documents. One suspect also
is charged with one count of money-laundering.

Friday's announcement came a week after the INS levied a $1.2 million

civil fine against Lane Packing Co. of Fort Valley, Ga., for hiring four men

who smuggled Mexican laborers into the United States.

The arrests also came less than a week after President Bush announced a

series of enforcement measures to curb illegal immigration.

INS District Director Thomas Fischer said Thursday's operation was one of the
most significant he has seen in 16 years.

"It's the most brazen I've ever seen because of the overtures that were

made by the individuals," he said. "

Officials say the sting started in October 1990 when Hsueh, a citizen of

Taiwan, and two 40-year-old Lilburn, Ga., residents, Evelyn and Edward Chu,

approached an INS agent in Atlanta.

They offered to pay him about $23,000 to obtain employment authorization

and temporary resident cards for immigrants.

During the next year, the indictment says, the agent received more than 35
bribes from Hsueh, the Chus and seven other suspects.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 15, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MORE BORDER AGENTS, WALL SET TO STEM HUMAN FLOW

BYLINE: By NANCY NUSSER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, MEXICO


Juan Pimatel, a small-framed Mexican teenager waiting for nighttime and a

chance to cross the U.S.-Mexico border, believes that if he can just get to

America, he can become taller.

Sitting on a cement embankment, he looked out across a sewage-filled river to
the fence between Tijuana and San Ysidro in California, the wall that

separates him from his fantasy.

"I want to get bigger and learn English and make some money," he said in

a plaintive, hopeful voice. "They must have machines and drugs that can make

you bigger."

He is one of millions-- many with equally farfetched fantasies about

America-- that make up a determined illegal immigrant flow that the United

States has hopelessly tried to keep south of the border.

THE `BERLIN WALL'

Attempting more control, the United States this year will hire 1,600 more
immigration employees, including 300 border guards, and continue building the
San Ysidro fence that some Mexicans resentfully call the "Berlin Wall."

It will bring the total number of guards there to more than 4,000. Many

experts believe the additional 300 will have little impact.

The immigrants say they supply the United States with badly needed cheap

labor and that intense border vigilance reflects American racism and

xenophobia.

But U.S. proponents of stronger control say millions of illegal immigrants take
American jobs and cost billions in social service dollars. In a recession and
election year, both are potentially controversial issues.

"Clearly the numbers now are out of hand, and they are going the wrong

way," said Duke Austin of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

He said illegal immigration, after declining in the late 80s, appears to

be rising again because false documents have become easier to get.

More than 1 million illegal immigrants were caught crossing the U.S.

border in 1991, compared with 854,128 in 1989, the INS reported. Generally,

for every person detained, two more get through, officials say.

About half cross through California and a third through Texas.

"We've got night-scopes, helicopters, seismic devices, men on horseback,

but if there is a desire, they will get through," Austin said.

U.S. businesses-- mainly farms, factories and service industries-- hire

illegal immigrants for as little as $4 an hour. It is a wage many Americans

wouldn't accept. But even such low pay is much more than many poor Mexicans

can earn in their own country.

EASY IDENTIFICATION

For some jobs, Austin said, Mexicans need only two easily obtained

falsified documents-- a diver's license and Social Security card.

So on any given day, hundreds of would-be immigrants can be found waiting on the
Mexico side of the San Ysidro fence. Hundreds of guards patrol the

muddy border strip, and at night heat sensors pick out figures in the dark.

But the immigrants have one fairly invincible weapon-- their own huge

numbers and a technique border guards call "banzai runs." The Mexicans wait

until the guards change shifts, then rush the fence in an enormous pack.

The greatly outnumbered guards catch some people, but many get through and run
onto the nearby highway. There they are pretty much home free because

guards usually don't pursue them into oncoming traffic.

"They've got the power of numbers," said border agent Matt Madore.

"A hundred of them coming at you at once. You grab what you can and

relax. Sometimes you're just wondering, `What am I doing here?' "

During Madore's shift, guards caught Alfredo Soarez, a 31-year-old Mexican who
says he has a steady job in Los Angeles, though he is there illegally.

Asked whether he would return to his home in Mexico, he smiled. "Of

course not. I'll just try again tomorrow. I have to get back to work by

Monday."

"If they keep us out, they'll starve because Americans are too delicate

for the work we do," said Antonio Maya, a Mexican youth hoping to cross.

But U.S. groups lobbying for tighter border control say immigrants drain

American social services.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 GERT ESSELINK/Special to The Palm Beach Post Scores of Mexicans wait for border
guards to change shifts before setting out on a `banzai' dash over the `Berlin
Wall' separating Mexico and the United States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 31, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS ISSUED FAKE SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Massachusetts welfare workers assigned hundreds of dummy Social Security

numbers to illegal immigrants to enable them to receive millions of dollars in
state benefits.

Federal officials said Wednesday there's nothing illegal about it. But

Gov. Michael Dukakis says it has to stop because it goes against his new

efforts to crack down on aid to illegal aliens, which he says the state no

longer can afford.

The practice started after Dukakis issued a 1985 executive order barring

state agencies from asking people applying for state services about their

citizenship status.

But citizens or not, the computerized welfare records required a case

identification number for each person, and that had to be a nine-digit number
since for most people the ID is the same as their Social Security number.

Dukakis' legal counsel, Don Stern, said the law setting up the general

relief program, a state-financed welfare program for people who don't qualify
for federal welfare, left it up to the Welfare Department if applicants didn't
have a Social Security number.

Welfare spokeswoman Michal Regunberg said the department issued its own

control numbers.

Welfare Department attorney Thomas Noonan said the dummy numbers started

with a three-digit prefix not used by the Social Security Administration.

Regunberg said those control numbers would have been rejected by Social

Security Administration computers, so they could not have been used to obtain
federally subsidized welfare or by an illegal alien seeking a job.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 28, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

9 HELD IN ALLEGED ALIEN SMUGGLING OPERATION

BYLINE: By VIOLA GIENGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Two Bahamians and seven others believed to be from the West Indies were

being held Sunday after they tried to run from the U.S. Coast Guard and rammed
their boat aground on Singer Island, officials said.

Authorities say the Bahamians were trying to smuggle the others into the

United States.

The Bahamians served as the crew on a 23-foot Divemaster boat, which had

been stripped of everything inside except 100-150 gallons of extra fuel, Coast
Guard Petty Officer Larry Perkins said. That is characteristic of boats used

for smuggling illegal aliens, he said.

A Coast Guard patrol boat spotted the smaller boat, which had no

registration or markings, entering the Lake Worth Inlet without running lights
shortly after 1 a.m. When the patrol came near, the boat sped off and ran

aground on Singer Island a few minutes later.

The four Coast Guard officers were not certain how many people were on

board, Perkins said.

"When we rammed them onto the beach, they started running everywhere and

our guys were guessing 10-12 (people)," he said.

The officers soon caught the two Bahamians and three of the others on foot and
enlisted the help of the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office and Palm Beach
Shores police to find the rest. Authorities stopped searching for a few hours
until daylight, when Palm Beach Shores police caught four more.

All nine were turned over to the U.S. Border Patrol, which could not be

reached for comment Sunday.

The Coast Guard found no weapons or drugs on board the boat.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 4, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAPTAIN GUILTY OF SMUGGLING IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The captain of a boat that capsized near the Jupiter Inlet in April,

killing four people, agreed Tuesday to plead guilty to federal charges of

illegally smuggling immigrants.

Frederick McCartney, 30, will enter his plea Friday, said his attorney,

Assistant Public Defender R. Fletcher Peacock.

In exchange, Assistant U.S. Attorney Ellen Cohen agreed not to seek

tougher penalties because of the passengers' deaths.

McCartney faces 14 years federal prison on the smuggling charges. After he is
sentenced by U.S. District Judge James C. Paine, he will be turned over to state
authorities, who have charged him with vessel homicide.

It is one of the few times South Florida prosecutors have used the state's 1987
boating homicide law to charge someone in a death at sea. The law is

usually used in cases that involve drunken boaters on the state's canals and

rivers.

Only McCartney and three other men survived the shipwreck April 4. Two

Haitain women and two men from the Dominican Republic drowned in the heavy

surf.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  In Brief / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

6 TO TESTIFY IN ALIEN SMUGGLING CASE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Six Chinese citizens who allegedly tried to enter the United States by boat in
March will be witnesses in the government's case against the boat captain. The
six-- five men and one woman-- were aboard a motorboat that was seized by the
Coast Guard 5 miles east of the Jupiter Inlet on March 14. The

passengers told Frank Doyle, a special agent with the U.S. Border Patrol, that
they had paid the captain, Antolino Rodriguez-Gonzalez, $200 each to take them
from the Bahamas to the United States, Doyle said in an affidavit.

Federal prosecutors Monday told U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac they want to

make sure the six are held until they can testify against Rodriguez.

Rodriguez, 37, a Cuban immigrant who lives in Miami, is charged with trying to
smuggle the aliens into the country.

Rodriguez claims he was returning from a pleasure cruise to the Bahamas

when he saw the aliens in a small boat that was foundering and let them board
his boat.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 24, 1988 Monday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAW PUTS GROWERS ON GUARD, MIGRANTS OUT OF WORK

BYLINE: By MARY JO TIERNEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


In recent weeks, Janette Clark has tried to sign up more than 4,000

migrants to work in groves and packinghouses this winter.

But Clark, manager of the Treasure Coast Harvesting Association, has

turned away more than 100 applicants who couldn't prove they were legal

aliens. She is holding up another 700 applications while those workers try to
get documents to prove they are in this country legally.

"Things can get tough this season," Clark said. "If they don't have

the documents, they don't get a job."

For decades, St. Lucie County, with its 100,000 acres in groves, has been a
mecca for migrants, who knew there usually was work even if they spoke a

different language and didn't have all the paper work required.

But this year, citrus growers and crew foremen said new federal laws

promising hefty fines for employers who hire illegal aliens have prompted them
to take a close look at their workers. And the Treasure Coast Harvesting

Association, which represents 52 farm-labor contractors in the region, voted

to turn in those who hire illegal workers.

"They don't want to take any chances," Clark said.

Bill Becker, owner of one of the area's largest citrus farms, said

people are "keenly aware" of the laws, which stipulate an employer can be

fined between $250 and $1,000 for every illegal employee. The employer also

can be fined between $100 and $1,000 for failure to produce adequate

employment forms for fruit pickers.

Becker said the laws have caused an "onerous amount of work" for citrus

employers who must make sure migrant workers have the proper identification

and documents.

"We have to be the policemen, too, and it's very difficult," he said.

Federal officials said the laws, which go into effect Nov. 30, will slow down
the stream of illegal immigrants who until now haven't had much trouble

finding

work.

"A person doesn't have to look around too much to see what happened in

the last five or 10 years," said Mike Sheehy, assistant chief for the U.S.

Border Patrol. "There are 40,000 Guatemalan aliens in South Florida alone.

. . . You have to draw the line somewhere."

Sheehy said the Border Patrol office in West Palm Beach, which also

covers the Treasure Coast, will increase its staff this season.

But local officials said they are worried what will become of migrants

who can't find a job.

"It's a big problem that we're going to have to address this fall,"

said Mike Mitchell, assistant director of the Mustard Seed Ministries.

Mitchell has seen dozens of migrant families who don't have the proper

documents. He said he refers them to agencies for help, but sometimes they

have no choice but to return home.

Officials said they can't estimate how many migrants in the area this

season will not be able to find work. But Clark said her organization tries to
provide more than 10,000 workers for grove owners in Martin, Indian River, St.
Lucie and Okeechobee counties. She anticipates a labor shortage in the groves
because of the law.

But she said most growers feel it's not worth the gamble to hire illegal

workers. And what will she tell those migrants who arrive without

identification and green cards?

"I'll tell them they don't have a choice," she said. "I'll tell them

they have to go home."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 20, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLIERS CLAIM `IMPORTED ALIENS' USED TO BUILD COURTHOUSE;
BUT NO ILLEGAL WORKERS FOUND DURING INSPECTION

BYLINE: By KIRK BROWN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Fliers protesting the use of "imported aliens" to build the downtown

courthouse complex are being passed out at the county's Governmental Center.

"Our families' lifestyles are being threatened. Have a voice in how your

tax dollars are spent. Call your county commissioner," states the flier,

which lists the office telephone numbers for each of the seven commissioners. A
group of disgruntled non-union carpenters is responsible for circulating the
anonymous flier, but will not discuss their allegations publicly out of

fear that doing so would make it difficult for them to find other jobs, a

union official said.

The group's members are upset because Capform, a subcontractor on the

courthouse project, replaced them with Hispanic workers from Texas who are

paid below-market wages, said Jim Cunningham, business agent for the United

Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America Local 130.

While saying he sympathizes with the group's plight, Cunningham insisted

he had nothing to do with the flier because the carpenters who lost their jobs
are no longer union members.

County Engineer Herb Kahlert, who oversees the $80 million project,

responded to the flier earlier this month by asking the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service to inspect the job site. No illegal aliens were found

working there.

"Obviously we are concerned about the charges," Kahlert said. "But to

our knowledge, there is no merit to it."

A supervisor for the Dallas-based Capform denied that the company replaced local
carpenters with Hispanic workers, brought from Texas, in order to save

money.

"Nothing like that is going on," supervisor Fred Watkins said. "We've

got people from all over the place on this job."

Watkins said a small number of carpenters who were fired for poor

performance were circulating the flier. He also said the firm's workers are

being paid fairly, with hourly wages ranging from $7-$20.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 2, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN GETS 5 MONTHS IN RESIDENCE-CARD SCAM

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Boynton Beach man who sold forged temporary residence cards to

undocumented workers was sentenced Friday to five months in a federal prison.
U.S. Border Patrol agents believe Wilner Jules, 23, of 317 N.E. 10th Ave. sold
about 20 of the cards per week for about six months to people in Palm

Beach and Broward counties.

Jules' attorney, Ronald S. Lowy, said Jules identified a Miami government
official as one of many manufacturers of the fake cards, which enabled aliens to
find employment and obtain state identification papers, driver licenses and
Social Security cards.

But an investigation into those allegations "has been unfounded so far,"

Border Patrol Agent Matt Zetts said.

Because Jules, the owner of an interpretation business in Boynton Beach,

will receive credit for jail time served since his September arrest, he is

expected to be released Feb. 24.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 13, 1992 Thursday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

3 UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS DISCOVERED

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


When Palm Beach police got a call Wednesday morning that undocumented

workers had jumped ship entering the Palm Beach Inlet, they rushed to the

north end of the island and found three Mexican men and their baggage.

But the men didn't swim ashore, said U.S. Border Patrol spokesman Matt

Zetts. They had arrived by bus in West Palm Beach from Atlanta and gotten lost
on their way to see a relative in Jupiter, he said.

Armando Aguilar-Torres, 25, his brother Jose, 28, and cousin Luis Ortega-
Auguilar, 36, all of Zacatecas, Mexico, entered the country in El Paso,

Texas, and had been doing agricultural work in Atlanta, Zetts said.

The men were taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami for deportation

hearings, Zetts said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 23, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS WRONGFULLY DENIED WORK PERMITS, RULING SAYS

BYLINE: By GARY KANE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials improperly denied work permits to thousands of

Haitian farm laborers and must redress their cases, a federal judge ruled

Monday.

In a 40-page order, Senior U.S. District Court Judge C. Clyde Atkins

faulted the Immigration and Naturalization Service for denying work permits to
farmworkers who could not document their work history with pay stubs or

employment records.

The ruling gives a second chance to about 15,000 foreign farmworkers who were
denied permits under the new Special Agricultural Workers program.

Without SAW permits, immigrant farmworkers face expulsion as illegal aliens.

"A lot of people are going to jump for joy when they hear about the

ruling," said Guilene Cherenfant, a legal aide at the Haitian Refugee Center

in Miami.

Most of the workers affected by the ruling are Haitians and Mexicans,

living in Florida, Georgia and Alabama.

Atkins instructed the INS to grant temporary permits to workers whose SAW
applications were rejected.

The judge's ruling stems from a lawsuit against the INS filed by 17

farmworkers, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach and the Haitian Refugee
Center of Miami.

The lawsuit claimed INS bureaucrats improperly demanded that farm laborers
produce pay stubs or other employment records to prove a 90-day work history

as required for the SAW permit. Farmworkers routinely are paid in cash, and

their crew bosses rarely keep accurate employment records, the suit said.

INS attorneys said the SAW program was riddled with fraudulent

applications. The agency was forced to insist on documentary evidence, they

said.

In his order, Atkins said the 1986 federal law creating the SAW program

allows applicants to submit sworn affidavits from employers as proof of a work
history.

"Congress intended that the program be liberally applied to encourage

undocumented farmworkers to come forward and seek legalization," Atkins

wrote. "The evidence before this court strongly suggests that, despite

congressional directives, applicants are being required to produce exactly

what they cannot: payroll records."

The judge also ordered the INS to redress cases in which the agency:

* Failed to give farmworkers specific reasons for denying the permits or
information about appealing the decision.

* Failed to give applicants opportunity to rebut adverse evidence causing
denials.

* Denied permits without showing the application was frivolous or

fraudulent.

The judge also directed INS offices to ensure that applicants have access to
Spanish and Creole translators during interviews for SAW permits and that

the farmworkers be allowed to present witnesses to testify about their work

history.

Some 300 Haitians converged on the federal courthouse last month to

attend the hearing on the lawsuit.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 24, 1988 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RULING MIGRANTS' DREAM, OFFICIALS' NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: By GARY KANE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Germaine Cadet paused from her labors among the lime trees of south Dade

County Tuesday to join the celebration outside a community center in Little

Haiti.

The singing and dancing that spilled into the street greeted a federal

court ruling that offers new hope to an estimated 15,000 immigrant farmworkers
who have been denied permits to live and work in the United States.

"I am happy today," said Cadet, 58, who helps support her seven

children in Haiti with earnings from the bean fields and lime orchards. "I

always held hope that I would qualify and not be deported."

While area Haitians sang the praises of the court ruling, immigration

officials sang the blues. Re-examining applications presents a bureaucratic

nightmare, officials said.

Thousands of foreign-born farmworkers in Florida, Georgia and Alabama

faced possible expulsion from the country when they were denied work permits

offered under a new immigration law. The Immigration and Naturalization

Service rejected scores of applicants who

could not produce pay stubs or other records to prove they had worked steadily
in the fields.

"I just want my residency," said Sylvia Lindor, 33, who was denied a

permit although she had pay stubs from her job at a Delray Beach plant

nursery. The INS said her frequent trips to Haiti indicated an unstable work

history, she said.

On Monday, Senior U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins ruled that Cadet,

Lindor and thousands of other farmworkers were improperly denied work permits.
Atkins ordered the INS to rehear the cases. The judge said the agency was

demanding that workers show excessive proof of their work history.

Migrant workers are routinely paid in cash and their crew bosses rarely

keep accurate employment records, complained a lawsuit filed last June by 17

workers, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach and the Haitian Refugee

Center of Miami.

"What the government did here was essentially violate its own rules,"

said Ira Kurzban, the attorney who argued the case on behalf of the

farmworkers. "The judge's order indicates that we would have a good chance of
success if the lawsuit is tried on its merits."

Kurzban said he expects the case to go to trial in six to eight months.

In the interim, the INS is under a court order to grant temporary work

authorization to those who were previously denied the special permits.

Justice Department lawyers are still weighing a possible appeal of the

judge's order, said Amy Brown, a department spokesman in Washington.

Immigration officials fear that complying with the judge's order could be a
budget-busting endeavor.

"It's certainly going to pose a manpower problem," said William

Chambers, head of the INS regional processing center in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (THE ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 28, 1988 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AGONIZING QUESTION: WHO GETS IN?

BYLINE: Fran Hathaway

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 659 words


Several wars are winding down around the world, yet the glad prospect of

less bloodshed is dimmed by the sad prospect of the refugees left in their

wake.

It is good to see Soviet tanks rumble out of Afghanistan. But realizing

that 3.5 million Afgan refugees remain in Pakistan more than hints at the

human toll.

It's the same around the globe. Today, an estimated 12 million refugees

exist in a kind of half-life in refugee camps from Central America to Africa

to the Middle East. What's especially sad is that only about a million will

ever begin a new life in a third country.

The United States gives money to aid refugees, as do other countries.

Given the choice, however, I'm sure a vast number of the dispossessed would

jump at the chance to become self-supporting in America.

Yet it's obvious we can't open our doors to everyone. As a result of the

Vietnam War alone, the United States has settled 820,000 Southeast Asian

refugees, according to the U.S. coordinator for refugee affairs.

How much more should we-- can we-- do to help the world's homeless?

If we really think about that question, our feelings may surprise us.

Immigration is an emotional issue, one that goes to the very heart of who we

are as a nation and what we want to be in the future. Debating the question of
who gets in and who doesn't-- and why-- can become uncomfortable. It reminds

us that we are, at base, an immigrant society.

Too, as Americans grow more worried about foreign competition, a shift in
thinking is occurring regarding what kind of immigrants are "good" for the

United States. What are their job skills? Can they speak English?

Since the 1960s, the goal of U.S. immigration policy has been to reunify

families. Then, about half of all legal immigrants were Europeans. Today,

about 90 percent are Asian and Latin American. The European slice of the pie

has shrunk to 5 percent.

Each year, the U.S. permits the entry of a half-million legal immigrants.
Lately, about five times that number apply. A Senate bill sponsored by Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., and Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., would add another 55,000 openings
under a new category of immigrant visa, one based on points.

The applicant would receive points for such things as English proficiency, high
school and college degrees, and job skills needed in the United States.

Those with the most points could pass through the portal where Lady Liberty

lifts her lamp. The bill passed the Senate in March and is now before a House
subcommittee.

Economist Barry Chiswick of the University of Illinois favors the idea. He
thinks the question of who gets in should be framed in terms of "What can you
contribute?" rather than "Who are you related to?"

If that sounds more hard-nosed than simply saying yes to anyone with a

relative who's a U.S. citizen-- sometimes a fairly distant relative-- maybe

it's also more realistic. If immigration policy reflects a nation's vision not
only of its past but of its future, perhaps it's time that policy were aimed

more toward the skilled, competitive, productive society we hope to be.

Certainly, such immigrants would be easier to absorb. And yet . . . does

it fly in the face of our heritage? Or is it simply good common sense?

Both, I suppose, which is what makes the issue so agonizing. Considering

the courage of those who escaped from Hungary in the 1950s, from Cuba in the

1960s, from Southeast Asia in the 1970s, and from Central America in the

1980s, I have to ask if I would be so brave. Such history also tells us it's

likely the 1990s will bring their own grief, their own refugees.

But coping with today is enough for most of us. To think of the thousands of
homeless Americans already on our streets, then think of the millions who

have fled their homelands for fear of persecution, is to feel the enormity of
the problem and the pain.

It may also make us mindful of our good fortune in being born here, a

stroke of luck we often take for granted.

* Fran Hathaway is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 19, 1988 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLL: IMMIGRANTS TAKE MORE THAN THEY GIVE;
' OLD PREJUDICES STILL AT WORK'

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A majority of Americans continue to view immigrants as a negative economic

force that contributes little to American culture, despite two years of

unprecedented attention during the government's amnesty and employer sanctions
programs.

A Los Angeles Times poll shows that attitudes toward immigrants, which

have historically tended to be unwelcoming, remain virtually unchanged.

Experts, government officials and immigrant advocates expressed disappointment
that immigration reforms have failed to alter that image.

"A lot of our old prejudices are still at work," said Maurice Roberts,

editor of Interpreter Releases, a Washington-based national immigration

journal.

Despite extensive publicity about the programs, a large segment of the
population remains unaware of the government's efforts. But among those

familiar with the changes in the 1986 reform law, the public generally

approves the legalization of about 2 million immigrants while giving low marks
to the early effectiveness of employer sanctions.

A significant segment of the population also appears to oppose evolving

efforts in Congress to change the flow of immigration patterns from Latin

America and Asia to European nations.

The Times poll was conducted four months after the conclusion of the one- year
legalization program and two months after the federal Immigration and

Naturalization Service began full enforcement of its sanctions against

employers who knowingly hire illegal workers. The Times poll, directed by I.A.
Lewis, conducted a nationwide telephone survey of 1,418 respondents last

weekend. The margin of error was 4 percentage points in either direction.

Asked whether immigrants get more from the U.S economy through social

services and unemployment benefits or contribute more through taxes and

productivity, 64 percent said that immigrants take more than they give. Only

19 percent replied that immigrants contributed more, while 4 percent said

immigrants benefited and contributed equally to the economy.

In answers to the same question about the economy posed in a 1983 Times

poll of Californians, 62 percent said that immigrants benefit more from the

economy. When isolating California and five other states with high immigrant

populations from the rest of the nation, the results showed little variation

from the national totals.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 1, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

4 CUBANS FEARED DEAD

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An empty inner-tube raft, a knapsack and water-soaked notes are all that

remain of a doomed effort by four young Cubans who tried to flee their

homeland, immigration officials said.

The four youths left Cuba Sept. 6

just as Hurricane Gilbert was about the strike the region,

said Perry Rivkind of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The raft of lashed-together inner tubes was found by the Coast Guard 60

miles southeast of Miami Monday. This is one of the few times a raft has been
found and family members could confirm who was aboard, Rivkind said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 2, 1988 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FARMS FACE A SHORTAGE OF WORKERS;
IMMIGRATION LAW REFORM FORCES MORE COMPETITION FOR LABORERS

BYLINE: By MARK CALVEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: NAPLES


An expected laborer shortage stemming from immigration reform is prompting

Florida farmers to use workers' time more efficiently and to find new sources of
workers.

"1989 could be the year we see a labor crunch," the U.S. Department of

Agriculture's labor specialist Al French told growers attending the Florida

Fruit & Vegetable Association's annual meeting last week in Naples.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 is expected to result in a
tighter labor supply as those receiving amnesty leave the fields and stronger
enforcement of immigration laws cuts the number of illegal workers.

The South Florida Tomato and Vegetable Association in Dade County has

organized a labor exchange program designed to keep harvesters working as many
days as possible by moving them around several farms in an area.

The Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association in Orlando and the South Florida
Tomato and Vegetable Association have established separate identification card
systems to indicate a farmworker's legal status without generating additional
paper work each time a worker moves to a different farm, which could be three or
four times weekly.

The photo identification card is designed to avoid having a worker fill

out an I-9 employment eligibility verification each time he or she starts

working at another farm, said Jack Campbell of the Florida Tomato Packers Inc.
in Homestead.

The Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association opened an office in Plant City

last month to verify I-9 forms and issue identification cards. The association
may soon open additional offices to verify I-9 forms.

Farmers are also looking at other sources of labor, including the H2-A

guest worker plan and other immigration programs.

The success of immigration reform, which provided greater enforcement of

immigration laws while offering amnesty to illegal aliens, has resulted in a

dimishing labor force for farmers.

For example, workers participating in the Special Agricultural Workers

program frequently leave the fields for year-round employment in the service

industry. The SAW program, which offers residency to those who harvested

fruits, vegetables and other perishable crops for at least 90 days in the year
ending May 1, 1986, has been very successful, said Gene M. Paz, a senior

immigration examiner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service who writes
regulations affecting farmworkers.

"The SAW program has recruited far more workers than anyone

anticipated," said the USDA's French, who helped write the regulations

determining what crops are eligible for the SAW program. He is currently

involved in litigation over the exclusion of sugar cane from the SAW program. As
of Sept. 23, the INS has received 862,695 SAW applications, with 3,000
additional applications being filed daily, said Paz of the INS.

Currently 92 percent of those applicants are being approved for residency
status, but the percentage may fall as more applications are processed, Paz

said.

Congress, anticipating an exodus of SAW applicants from the farm, designed the
Replenishment Agricultural Workers program as part of immigration reform. But
the details of that program are still being debated, Paz said. The

purpose of the RAW program is two-fold: To replace SAW workers who left the

fields and to reunite family members of legal residents.

The program would allow a foreigner to come to this country and live with family
members as long as he or she harvested fruits, vegetables or other

perishable crops, for at least 90 days each year.

But French asked growers how realistic it is to expect the wife of a

Chicago taxi driver to leave her family for three months every year to harvest
crops.

The labor supply may be especially tight during the 1988-89 season as SAW

workers leave the fields while the RAW program will not be effective until

1990, French said.

More aggressive enforcement against employing illegal aliens also will

diminish the labor supply, French said.

Currently, about 70,000, or 30 percent, of the 230,000 farmworkers in the
Southeast are illegal aliens, said Ralph W. Alewine Jr. of the U.S. Department
of Labor in Atlanta.

Florida growers who once relied on H2-A workers to harvest their crops

began using illegal aliens in the 1970s because they could avoid the H2-A

regulations requiring agricultural employers to provide items such as housing
and transportation, Alewine said. In addition, the H2-A program can only be

used after the government determines that there are not enough domestic

workers to do the job. Florida's sugar industry still brings in 10,000 guest

workers annually to harvest cane.

But French warned growers relying on an illegal workforce that new labor

reporting practices will make it easier to enforce immigration laws.

"Enforcement procedures will involve coming into the office to see

payroll records," French said.

"A single enforcement agent will be able to do far more," French said.

"The enforcement process will be far more efficient than in the past."

Growers considering the H2-A program as an alternative should not rely on the
program as the sole source of their workforce, French said.

Nevertheless, many H2-A applications will be used as an insurance policy

by growers fearing a labor shortage, French said.

Also, a "growing, and perhaps bolder, opposition to the H2-A program"

must be taken into account by growers thinking of hiring guest workers, French
said.

One thing is certain, he said, given the low level of unemployment,

there's going to be more competition to recruit farmworkers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 25, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THOUSANDS OF FARMWORKERS GET SECOND CHANCE FOR AMNESTY

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Thousands of farmworkers denied legal residence in the United States under

a 1986 immigration law will get the benefit of the doubt and a second chance

at citizenship under a new policy announced Monday.

The relaxed standards are the result of a lawsuit filed by the Roman

Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach and Miami's Haitian Refugee Center.

Immigration and Naturalization Service workers in field offices throughout the
southern region must be "liberal and generous" in reconsidering 13,906

refugee cases, most of them in Florida, said Charlotte Goodwin, an INS

legalization officer in the southern regional office in Dallas.

Another 6,000 amnesty applications denied throughout the 11-state southern
region will be reviewed and reconsidered in an effort to apply the same

guidelines, Goodwin said.

Sister Pat Downs, director of the Haitian-Catholic Center in Belle Glade, said
the new guidelines, if interpreted correctly, should "give (farmworkers) a lot
of hope." She said "hundreds, if not a thousand" Palm Beach County

Haitians had been denied legal status because of INS restrictions.

"I'm hoping the local interpretation is as liberal here as it is in

Dallas," she said.

"If it does encompass a more liberal view, I would say it's very

positive," said Ira Kurzban, who argued the case in federal court. "It's

important that the service send out this kind of message to clear the air

about what standards to apply."

Most of the illegal residents affected by the new policy had been denied

work permits and were ordered out of the country after they could not document
how long they had worked in the United States.

The Catholic diocese and the Haitian center, representing 17 farmworkers

in the lawsuit, argued that the INS was rejecting amnesty applications when

applicants were unable to provide payroll records proving they had worked 90

days as agricultural laborers. Under the 1986 law, farmworkers can gain legal
status if they can prove employment in agriculture jobs for 90 days during a

specific time period.

The attorneys also argued that the INS took a restrictive view of what was proof
of employment when Congress had authorized INS caseworkers to consider

sworn affidavits from employers. INS examiners usually insisted the refugees

present payroll stubs to prove their work record. Most agricultural workers

are paid in cash.

Attorneys for the farmworkers claimed the INS routinely denied applicants when
certain blacklisted work-crew foremen submitted documentation supporting amnesty
applications.

INS claims there is widespread fraud in the amnesty application process,

saying forged papers are commonly sold to aliens.

About 75,000 farmworkers have been approved for amnesty under the new law, INS
records show. Those whose applications were denied will not automatically be
given residency status but they will not be asked for additional

documentation, Goodwin said.

In anticipation of the new policy, many farmworkers previously denied work
permits under the Special Agricultural Workers program began receiving

temporary permits Sept. 29, Goodwin said. The deadline for eligibility under

the program is Nov. 30.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 5, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INVESTOR SOUGHT BY BRITISH;
SCAM SUSPECT ALLEGEDLY OWED 1 MILLION POUNDS

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Peter Kevin Miller, the former West Palm Beach businessman charged with

defrauding more than 50 investors of more than $1 million, fled to West Palm

Beach from Britain, where he allegedly owed investors more than 1 million

British pounds, a prosecutor said Friday.

An immigration officer discovered that Miller was wanted by bankruptcy

officials in Britain when he searched Miller's Los Angeles apartment last

month. There, the agent found a stack of newspaper clippings detailing

Miller's business dealings in Barrow, England.

Miller, 39, was arrested at the Los Angeles International Airport Oct. 8

after arriving on a flight from Yugoslavia. Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert

Cornell asked a federal magistrate in West Palm Beach Friday to hold Miller

without bail before trial because he is likely to flee.

A federal grand jury in West Palm Beach indicted Miller last month on 51

counts of mail fraud and inducing aliens to enter the United States illegally.
Special Agent Darrell Brewer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service

testified in federal court Friday that Miller encouraged other British

nationals to sell their homes and businesses in Britain, move to West Palm

Beach and invest their money in South Florida Business Investments Inc., a

company he owned.

Miller said the investments would make the British nationals eligible for legal
residency in the United States-- a claim that was untrue, Brewer

testified.

According to the newspaper clippings Brewer seized from Miller's Los

Angeles apartment, Miller was wanted by bankruptcy officials in Barrow after

he disappeared following a stormy creditors meeting in 1981.

Miller had owned the Fiesta club-- billed as Europe's biggest nightclub.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 7, 1988 Monday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

RESIDENCY APPLICATIONS EXPECTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


About 97,000 farm workers are expected to flood five temporary immigration

offices in Florida with applications for temporary residency permits, and

immigrations officers already see problems ahead.

Under immigration reform legislation, foreign farm workers have until Nov. 30 to
prove they worked in the United States for at least 90 days between May 1, 1985,
and May 1, 1986.

"There are some people who have truly done the work in the right time

period. But they went with one crew leader for a few days, then another and

another, and they don't remember the names of the farms," said Lisa Levine,

manager of the immigration office in the farm community of Homestead, south of
Miami.

The state averaged about 500 applications a day last week, and Wayne Joy,
assistant district director for legalization with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, expects about 600 a day this week.

But about 45 percent of the Florida applicants are recommended for denial, he
said.

Labor contractors often don't keep records, and many are unwilling to sign
verification of employment.

"I've heard them say: `I paid them cash in envelopes and tore up the

envelopes at the end of the week,' " Ms. Levine said.

Dade County labor contractor Charlie Brantley said more than half of the

workers who asked him to verify employement didn't meet INS guidelines and he
didn't sign.

"I'm not going to jail for making illegal papers," he said.

But Brantley said some workers returned to say someone else signed their

papers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 8, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

30,000 HAITIANS OK TO STAY;
END OF PROGRAM LEAVES 15,000 STILL ILLEGAL

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


About 30,000 Haitians have been granted the right to stay in this country

legally under a federal immigration program that ended Monday.

But while the threat of deportation is gone for those newly legal

residents, advocates for Haitian immigrants say 15,000 others who came here

too late to qualify will form a new underclass of illegals -- desperate to

take any work they can get. Their employment prospects are limited to those

bosses who will overlook the immigration law and hire illegal aliens.

Under the 1986 federal immigration act, employers are required for the

first time to ask for proof of each worker's legal status. About 30,000

Haitians who arrived in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, were processed
under the historic Cuban-Haitian Adjustment Program, under provisions of the

1986 immigration law.

"It's been very much a success," said George Waldroup, spokesman for the

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.

Tens of thousands of other Haitians have won legal status under the

amnesty provisions of the 1986 immigration law. Most have been farm workers

-- 35,963 at the latest count-- who submitted proof that they had worked at

least 90 days between 1985 and 1986, Waldroup said. Mexicans are the only

group with more workers applying for the farm worker program.

That program ends Nov. 30, and Waldroup anticipates a flood of applicants.
Monday also was the first day that those who qualified for amnesty could

apply for permanent residency.

Permanent resident status brings a person a so-called green card-- they've
actually been white since 1976-- which allows them to leave and enter the

country at will and to eventually apply for citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 1, 1988 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

EXPECTED LATE RUSH ON ALIEN DEADLINE DOES NOT DEVELOP

BYLINE: By SCOTT MONTGOMERY and MARY WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 408 words


The application crunch that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has

been bracing for the last few days did not come late Wednesday evening.

In spite of a month of long lines-- 300 people and more-- at INS offices
throughout the state, the midnight deadline on the Special Agricultural

Workers program approached without the mass of late applicants many expected.
"It's not as busy as it was yesterday," said George Waldroup, an INS

spokesman in Miami. "We're unable to tabulate the numbers. It's been steady,

but there hasn't been a big rush of applicants."

Even with a slow day Wednesday, Waldroup said, immigration officials in

Florida would probably accept applications from about 115,000 aliens before

the deadline. And another INS official said the total for the country would be
about 1.2 million.

There were a few hundred people at the Okeechobee office Wednesday

morning, but after the early group was processed, Jake Achterberg, director of
the Okeechobee INS office, and his staff had just enough work to keep busy.

At most local immigrant aid offices, business was slow as well. The INS

has allowed certain organizations, mostly churches, to help with the program

by letting them accept applications.

"So far it's just like a normal day here," said Dominga Manuel Xuncax,

a social worker at the Indiantown Center. "Some of the workers weren't in

town until last week, so now they're just getting around to filing their

papers."

At the Fort Pierce Migration and Refugee Center, it was business as

usual.

"We haven't had a rush of last-minute ones, but we'll keep on until the

last person has left," center director Alicia Tovar said.

Sacred Heart Catholic Church in Okeechobee had its busiest day yet. The

Rev. Hugh Duffy said his immigrant aid office saw more applicants Wednesday

than it had in the days and weeks before.

"I couldn't guess how many. It's in the hundreds," he said. Duffy's

small parish has one full-time worker to process the applications, so the

unusually large number of people who arrived on the last day of the program

all but overwhelmed his office.

"We've had a terrible day today," he said.

All through November, INS lines were longer than had been predicted. The number
of aliens who have sought temporary residency was greater than the INS expected,
so no one seemed unhappy things had slowed Wednesday.

"It's good that it ends now because it is too much pressure,"

Achterberg said. "The last couple of weeks have been too much pressure."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 9, 1988 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 LAWYERS ACCUSED OF HELPING TO BILK ALIENS OF SAVINGS

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Peter K. Miller urged his British countrymen to sell their homes, move to

America, and invest every penny they had in his two corporations, court

documents state.

And if they were skeptical, Miller took his would-be investors to the

fashionable Palm Beach offices of an immigration attorney or the Palm Beach

Lakes Boulevard offices of a corporate lawyer.

Trouble was, the two lawyers were conspiring with Miller, a 91-count

federal indictment unsealed Thursday charges. The two lawyers were only

"pretending" to represent Miller's so-called clients, according to the

indictment.

Michael Arlen Blank, 38, of 940 N. Lake Drive, Palm Beach, and Kerry

Russell Schwencke, 37, of 1994 Thatch Palm Drive, Boca Raton, were charged

with conspiracy, alien smuggling, wire fraud, mail fraud and securities

violations.

The charges are the result of a yearlong investigation by the U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Florida Comptroller's Office, the
FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office into allegations that Miller, 40, induced

dozens of immigrants, mostly British, to enter the United States illegally.

Blank and Miller "lent some form of legitimacy to the whole scheme,"

said John Willard of the comptroller's office. "That was a key part of the

scheme."

"It is truly unfortunate that these people lost their lifelong savings

and may now risk being deported," U.S. Attorney Dexter Lehtinen said.

The indictment alleges that Miller, Blank and Schwencke earned more than

$2 million by convincing illegal aliens they would obtain permanent resident

status with the immigration service by investing at least $50,000 in a U.S.

company.

It was a part of the scheme "to disguise the crooked intentions of the

defendants by inducing alien investors to believe that defendants Blank and

Schwencke would act loyally on their behalf," according to the indictment.

"In return for the alien referrals Miller provided and the substantial

source of business the legal fees represented, the defendant attorneys were

expected to counsel and induce aliens to give substantial amounts of money

-- in excess of $2 million-- to Peter Kevin Miller."

Miller was arrested in connection with the scheme on Oct. 8. He is held

without bail at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Dade County.

Blank surrendered Wednesday to INS agents at the federal courthouse in

West Palm Beach and is expected to appear before U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac

at 10:30 a.m. today. Neither Blank nor his attorney returned phone calls.

Schwencke surrendered Thursday. He was released by Vitunac on a $150,000

personal surety bond, which means he did not have to post cash with a bondsman
in order to gain release. Schwencke pleaded innocent.

"I have a pretty good understanding of the facts, and he isn't guilty,

and there isn't going to be any compromise," Schwencke's attorney, Richard

Lubin, said Thursday. "We're going to take this case as far as we have to to

establish he's innocent."

If convicted, Blank and Miller face a maximum penalty of 490 years in

prison and $22 million in fines. Schwencke faces a maximum penalty of 275

years and $12 million in fines.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 12, 1988 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ENTITLED TO `DUE PROCESS';
INS HAS 1 AGENT FOR EVERY 5,000 ALIENS

BYLINE: By MARY C. WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


Officials estimate 30,000 to 40,000 Guatemalans are working and living in

Florida from Tampa to West Palm Beach-- some legally, many not.

And between 2,500 and 3,000 of those are believed to live in Indiantown, a
community of 5,500 in western Martin County.

These numbers upset longtime residents, many of whom blame immigration

officials for closing their eyes to the problem.

But Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say the law requires them
to grant each Guatemalan the same due process it provides all citizens

-- even though they may have come to the United States illegally.

All immigrants have to be processed. And it takes months, sometimes

years, for a case to run its course through the legal system.

"The existing procedures under the Immigration Act provide this due

process. So not all of those who have just come over are considered illegal if
there is an application of some kind pending before the INS," said George

Waldroup, INS deputy district director. "And many of them in Indiantown have

applications pending."

The immigrants also have another avenue. Those who fail to qualify under amnesty
programs that provide temporary residency status can apply for

political asylum. While the application is under review, the immigrant is

given a temporary work card and allowed to work in the United States until a

hearing is scheduled.

If the request for asylum is denied, the applicant can appeal, and

another hearing is scheduled. All the while, officials say, he or she can

work.

Meanwhile, INS officials admit to being stumped in getting an exact count of the
Guatemalan population.

"People obviously come across our borders without inspection or our

knowing that they are coming," INS spokesman Ray Dudley said.

INS agents responsible for policing U.S. borders say tracking illegal

immigrants is almost impossible when there is only one experienced agent for

every 5,000 immigrants coming into Florida.

"We're more familiar with the problem than people are aware of," said

Mike Sheehy, assistant chief of the Border Patrol, the INS enforcement

section. "It's not a simple problem."

The INS' Palm Beach district-- which is responsible for an eight-county

region that includes Martin County-- has four agents who cover 10,000 square

miles.

Neal Richards, the agent in charge of the area's Border Patrol, said his small
force concentrates its efforts on illegal immigrants who are convicted

of narcotics charges. But agents also are prepared to go after employers who

hire immigrants who don't have the proper work cards or identification.

"We're trying to cut down on the number of illegals by going about it a

roundabout way," Richards said. "Just because you don't see our green-and-

whites flashing through Indiantown doesn't mean we aren't doing anything."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C)
 Photos by BARRY C. ALLEN / Staff Photographer In a customized trailer in the
parking lot of the `Blue Camp' apartments, an adult education program teaches
Guatemalans English and history as well as American customs. The trailer's 65
seats are usually filled, and crowds of up to 140 participate. Indiantown post
master Ron Yates sees about 400 Guatemalans in the office daily. `I've made up
my mind.... They are in America, and they will speak the language,' he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 21, 1988 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS WANTS REVIEW UNIT SHUT DOWN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration Commissioner Alan Nelson has asked Attorney General Dick

Thornburgh to wipe out a Justice Department unit that has supported Central

Americans and others seeking asylum in the United States, an internal memo

shows.

At issue is the Asylum Policy and Review Unit, which has prodded the

department to override a number of Immigration and Naturalization Service

denials of asylum.

One point "we would like to raise with you is the validity of the Asylum

Policy and Review Unit," said Nelson's Dec. 13 memo to Thornburgh. ' ' APRU

has cost INS appropriations $750,000 since inception. . . . The entire

purpose of APRU and its continued existence should now be reviewed by your

staff."

APRU reviews of asylum rejections by INS are "just plain financially

wasteful," said the memo. APRU has persuaded INS to reconsider denials in 35

cases and has referred another 35 cases to Justice Department officials who

then directed reversals, said department sources, speaking on condition of

anonymity.

APRU was established in 1987 to monitor INS asylum operations following a 1985
incident in which a Soviet seaman who jumped ship on the Mississippi

River was returned to his Soviet vessel on orders of the U.S. Border Patrol.

The border patrol is part of INS.

"The establishment of the Justice Department unit was a positive

development in that it recognized that INS was incapable of handling the

asylum function," Arthur Helton, an attorney for the Lawyers Committee for

Human Rights, said Tuesday. His group favors removing INS from the asylum

process altogether.

"This office serves a vital purpose" and its staff is dedicated to

ensuring that "the purposes of United States asylum policy are carried out,"

said Henry Curry, the unit's director.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 12, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CANADIAN VISIT DEPORTS FAMILY FROM MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, ONTARIO


Carlos Fajardo took his family across the Rainbow Bridge into Canada and

lost the pot of gold that had been their lives in America.

Fajardo, who struggled for 20 years to leave his native Cuba, accidentally
deported himself and his family by crossing the border on a 20-minute

sightseeing trip Dec. 23.

Even though the family lived in the United States for four years, federal
immigration officials will not allow them back because they are illegal

aliens.

STRANDED IN A MOTEL

They are stranded in a motel in Niagara Falls, Ontario.

"We came for 20 minutes," Fajardo said. "No one told us we could not go

back."

Fajardo, 39, said the ordeal began Dec. 20, when they set out from their

home in Miami on a Christmas quest to find snow, which his adopted children,

Yoandys, 12, and Yordalys, 9, had never seen.

Fajardo said the quest brought them 1,500 miles in their truck to Niagara Falls,
N.Y., where they checked into a motel and planned to visit Canada.

When they returned, however, U.S. border guards demanded to see proof of

citizenship. All Fajardo had was a Florida driver license.

DIFFERENT STORIES

At first, Fajardo maintained that he was a U.S. citizen. Later he said he was a
resident alien. But immigration officials determined otherwise.

Benedict Ferro, director of the federal Immigration and Naturalization

Service office in Buffalo, said Fajardo's wife, Bermaida, and her two children
entered the United States illegally in 1985 and that Fajardo entered illegally
in 1986.

Fajardo, a boat-builder, denies entering the country illegally.

An immigration judge in 1987 denied asylum to Mrs. Fajardo and the two

children. She appealed the decision in August on grounds that she would face

persecution if returned to Cuba, but her appeal was rejected.

Fajardo's application for asylum was pending when he crossed the border.

His status was nullified by leaving the country, Ferro said.

Fajardo could reapply, but his wife and children cannot because they

previously provided fraudulent information to immigration officials, Ferro

said.

"The family lied, and their credibility is about zero at this point,"

Ferro said.

Canadian authorities have given the family permission to stay in Canada

until Sunday.

SUPPORT FROM GRAHAM

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., has urged INS officials to allow the family to

return to Florida for humanitarian reasons.

"This family has strong ties to the Miami community through relatives,

business and local school attendence," Graham said in a letter Tuesday to INS
officials. "It would be comforting to these people for them to be able to

resume their well-established lives."

It has been nearly three weeks since the family checked into the motel in
Ontario, and they've seen more than enough snow.

"We are all very tired," he said. "The children are missing school.

. . . We want to go home."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 12, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES GET REPRIEVE

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


A judge Wednesday extended for three weeks the period in which Central

American asylum-seekers can leave southern Texas, where an immigration policy
was blamed for trapping hundreds in desperate conditions.

U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela postponed until Jan. 31 a hearing in a

lawsuit filed last week against the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The hearing had been scheduled for today, when a temporary restraining

order against the INS policy was to expire.

The order issued Monday restored the right for asylum-seekers to travel to U.S.
destinations while their cases are resolved, a right they will retain

until the rescheduled hearing.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  National News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 5, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETENTION OF REFUGEES CONSIDERED;
BUSH HAS UNTIL FEB. 20 TO SOLVE GROWING CRISIS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government, in a quandary over how to handle the massive influx of
Central Americans seeking political asylum, is debating a range of

approaches, including detention centers, Bush administration sources said

Saturday.

One source said that idea, which drew immediate criticism from immigrant

advocates, is at the "conservative end of the scale." At the "liberal

end," officials within the Department of Justice are advocating a special

status called "extended voluntary departure" that would allow the immigrants

to remain in this country until the situations in their homelands become

stable.

Also, officials said, the administration is casting about for ways to

pressure Mexican officials into helping to stem the flow of undocumented

immigrants through Mexico to the United States.

"We're looking for Mexican help to cut them off," said an administration

official, referring to the Central American immigrants. But the official

acknowledged that this tack runs the risk of angering Mexicans, who might view
it as intervention.

The other possible solutions also are fraught with problems, making the

situation a proverbial political minefield for the new administration.

Meanwhile, a federal judge's order last week effectively gave the government

until Feb. 20 to come up with a way to handle the continuing flow of

immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that since July, 30,000
Central Americans-- about half of them Nicaraguans-- have poured across the

Texas border. Immigrant activists say the INS focus on Texas is causing

smugglers to turn to other routes. Once in the country, most of the immigrants
disperse to Florida and California, with a sizable number settling in

Washington.

`A TOUGH PROBLEM'

What the administration will do to handle the continuing influx "is still up in
the air," said Loye Miller, director of public affairs at the

Department of Justice. "It's a . . . tough problem."

The INS, maintaining that the refugees' claims of fear of persecution are
frivolous, in December issued rules that made the immigrants wait at the point
of entry while their claims were processed. In Brownsville, Texas, Tuesday,

U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela issued a 20-day stay of the INS rule, making it
possible for the immigrants to apply for asylum any place in the nation,

thus avoiding the possibility of being trapped in squalid camps in South

Texas.

At the same time, the judge indicated that he was likely to allow the INS to
begin holding immigrants in South Texas when the order expires in less than
three weeks, saying the December ruling was within the law.

Even if the judge sides with them, INS officials realize they must find a way to
handle the huge numbers of immigrants who would be concentrated in

Brownsville.

DETENTION CENTER PLAN

"Putting up some kind of detention centers (in the border areas)

addresses the issue of meeting their human needs," said one administration

official.

But the lingering criticism of the federal policy that put Cuban and

Haitian immigrants in such centers after their arrival in 1980 weighs heavily
against the plan. "The notion of alien detention centers on U.S. soil is

disturbing because it violates the spirit if not the letter of the Refugee Act
of 1980," said Wade Henderson, associate director of the Washington office of
the American Civil Liberties Union.

Carmen Monico, national coordinator of the Central American Refugee

Committees, said activists would "start a campaign" to prevent the

immigration service from operating the centers. "We don't need more detention
centers," she said. "We need a fair refugee act, including every

consideration of extended voluntary departure."

SPECIAL STATUS WEIGHED

Over the years, this temporary status, granted at the president's

discretion, has been applied to numerous countries deemed unstable and unsafe.
Currently, Ethiopians, Poles and Afghans are allowed to stay in the United

States under this policy.

But the conservative Bush administration, like Reagan's before it, faces a
barrage of criticism from the right if it offers refuge to Salvadorans; that

would be perceived as an acknowledgement that the Salvadoran government, a

U.S. ally, is oppressive.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 9, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS COMPLAIN OF IMMIGRATION BIAS;
HAITIANS PENALIZED, LAWMAKERS SAY

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


South Florida lawmakers and black community leaders met privately for

nearly two hours Wednesday with high-ranking administration officials to

protest what they called "discriminatory" U.S. immigration policy toward

Haitians.

Representatives of the Justice Department, Immigration and Naturalization
Service and Coast Guard told participants there was no intentional

discrimination behind the policy that has allowed thousands of white Central

Americans to enter the United States and move about freely. Meanwhile,

boatloads of black Haitian refugees are intercepted on the high seas and

either returned to their homeland or held indefinitely at Miami's Krome

Detention Center.

"I think they realize that this policy is creating a severe problem in

South Florida, a problem they don't need," said Rep. William Lehman, a Miami

Democrat who called the meeting.

"They were aware how it looked to the outside, that it might look

discriminatory, and they did agree to give consideration to what we said,"

Rep. Claude Pepper said after the meeting.

Lehman said he was encouraged by statements from Thomas Boyd, assistant

attorney general for legislative affairs, that he would make suggestions to

Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, who in turn is expected to make

recommendations on immigration policy soon to President Bush.

A participant in the meeting quoted Boyd as saying that Thornburgh is

"trying to formulate a policy in South Florida and Texas. The attorney

general is committed to resolving this problem." He said Boyd "guaranteed"

that the sentiments expressed at the meeting would be conveyed to Thornburgh.
Dade County Commissioner Barbara Carey said local officials called for the
immediate termination of the 1981 presidential proclamation implementing an

agreement between the United States and Haiti that allows U.S. Coast Guard

vessels to stop boatloads of Haitians on the high seas, conduct a brief

immigration hearing and return them to Haiti.

A Coast Guard paper filed with the transportation appropriations

subcommittee, which Lehman chairs, said that from 1981 to 1987 the Coast Guard
interdicted 312 vessels and returned 11,003 Haitians to Haiti. About 1,800

Haitians were allowed to enter the United States.

`UNBRIDLED IMMIGRATION'

Without the interdiction policy, the Coast Guard paper said, South Florida would
be burdened with "unbridled alien immigration (which) would eventually

cause breakdowns and might deny U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents

the services and benefits that their tax dollars support."

But Carey said residents of Miami are "not concerned that the floodgates

will open. The policy is discriminatory, and (they) are violating basic human
rights."

A bill filed last week by Pepper, a Democrat from Miami, and endorsed by

Reps. Dante Fascell, Larry Smith and Lehman at the meeting, would require

refugees interdicted within U.S. territorial waters to be brought to this

country and given the same procedural rights to asylum as immigrants who cross
the border by land. A Pepper staff member said he would amend the bill in the
next few days to include refugees interdicted on the high seas, where most of
the Haitian vessels are stopped.

Carey and Lehman both called for the immediate release of Haitians held in the
Krome Detention Center. They said it was discriminatory to detain Haitian
refugees, many of whom have families in Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties,
while allowing Nicaraguan refugees to settle freely.

HEARINGS URGED ON BILL

Lehman also urged Rep. Bruce Morrison, D-Conn., new chairman of the

Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, refugees and international law, to hold
hearings promptly on Pepper's bill, including a field hearing in Miami near

the Krome Center.

Morrison responded that "to the extent the law is the problem, we will

take a close look right away," a participant said. He did not commit to a

hearing in Miami.

Former Miami City Commissioner Athalie Range, the city's first elected

black commissioner, said she was encouraged by the willingness of the

administration representatives to listen, but discouraged because they did not
have the authority to offer changes.

"We think it's a long, uphill struggle," Range said. "We don't expect

to see it resolved overnight, but we don't intend to let it go with one

meeting and some `feel happy' remarks."

Participants described the meeting as anything but happy, and reporters

waiting outside could hear frequent shouts and loud voices-- recognizable as

coming from some of the congressmen-- through a closed door several feet away.
Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., who left after an hour and twenty minutes, said
administration officials hadn't had an opportunity to speak by the time he

left.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 23, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS `MESSAGE IS GETTING OUT' AS LINES THIN AT TEXAS CENTER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


The flood of Central Americans applying for refugee status slowed to a

trickle Wednesday, and immigration officials said their get-tough policy of

immediately jailing those denied asylum appeared to be working.

Only 12 people showed up at the asylum-processing center at an immigration jail
when it opened Wednesday morning, compared with hundreds who had camped

overnight since processing was moved here from Harlingen a week ago.

Fewer than 1 percent of the immigrants applying were granted refugee

status, and at least 100 denied asylum were jailed.

"Evidently the message is getting out," said Mario Ortiz, chief regional

spokesman for the INS.

"Maybe we can put ourselves out of business," said Omer Sewell,

Harlingen District director for the INS. "I hope so."

But immigration attorney Linda Yanez said immigrants have merely gone

underground.

"My guess is that most people are probably going to just take their

chances and get apprehended," said Yanez, who helped organize attorneys to

provide free representation for those denied asylum under the new program.

"If they get apprehended," she said, "then they're before an

immigration judge (to submit asylum applications), where they're going to get a
fair hearing, as opposed to this kangaroo court that they're conducting over
there."

Of 233 applications submitted Tuesday when a new one-day adjudication

procedure began, the INS granted asylum to only two people, said spokesman

Virginia Kice.

Previously, processing of applications took weeks and involved relaying

information to and from Washington; immigrants who were denied asylum were

freed on their own recognizance.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 24, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REDEEM INS POLICY;
BROWNSVILLE REFUGEES' DILEMMA ALSO OUR OWN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 481 words


If you're a Central American refugee seeking political asylum in the United
States, how do you prove you may face persecution if you return home? If your
family has been terrorized in the past, do you have evidence?

These are daunting questions for the men, women and children who have been
flooding into Texas seeking political asylum. For the U.S. government, the

thousands of refugees present a terrible dilemma.

On the one hand, we have this statue in New York Harbor inscribed with the
words: "Give me your tired, your poor . . . the homeless, tempest-tossed

. . . "

On the other, we have a near-untenable situation in Brownsville, Texas,

the border crossing closest to Central America. Last year, 50,000 streamed

into the area. The number was expected to double this year. Those granted

asylum usually gravitated to Hispanic communities in Florida and California,

again overloading services there.

Yet many are from Nicaragua, where U.S. surrogate involvement via the

Contras helped decimate their country. What responsibility do we have to them?
This week, the federal government announced a new policy. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service will try to speed up processing by giving

applicants a quick answer to requests for political asylum.

If the answer is "No," the refugees will be arrested and detained in a

minimum-security prison or in tents erected to house the overflow. The goal is
to discourage others from coming, and initially, it seems to be doing that.

But the Catholic bishops of Texas denounced the detention center as

potentially "the largest concentration camp on U.S. soil." Other opponents

charge that the new policy will simply cause immigrants to go underground and to
pay the infamous "coyotes" to smuggle them directly to Houston and other

cities.

The INS counters that the vast majority of immigrants are not fleeing

repression but poverty, and that uncontrolled numbers of refugees no longer

can be permitted to enter the U.S. simply for economic reasons. It says the

clean beds and food provided in the center are better than the previous

situation, when refugees were sleeping under trees with little to eat.

The INS says its new policy is "firm but fair." What makes that

questionable is that it does not have a praiseworthy record of dealing with

immigrants.

Last year in South Florida, officials required migrant workers seeking to apply
for citizenship to show written proof they had worked in the fields

during a specific period, records the officials had to know were practically

non-existent. That policy also invited circumvention, in this case, fraudulent
documents.

The Senate subcommittee on immigration and refugee affairs has sent

representatives to investigate the Brownsville situation. The American people,
faced with conflicting emotions and needs, need to know what other options are
available and whether the INS policy is as equitable as it's made out to be.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 28, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RANKS OF IMMIGRATION LAWYERS SWELL

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


The wave of immigrants to Florida has had a significant impact on the

state's economy and culture

and on the legal profession.

Since 1977, the number of lawyers in Florida specializing in immigration

has swelled from 20 to more than 350, said Ira Kurzban, past president of the
Association of Immigration Lawyers.

Lawyers say the human drama is the main attraction in immigration cases.

George Moore, a West Palm Beach attorney who has handled clients from as

many as 78 countries in one year, specializes in business cases.

"Their whole fate and business career often hangs in the balance," Moore

said. "This is heart surgery as opposed to auto mechanics."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 1, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RULING DENIES U.S. RESIDENCY FOR 8,000 SUGAR CANE WORKERS

BYLINE: By MARK CALVEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 442 words


Sweet dreams of U.S. residency for 8,000 sugar cane cutters ended Tuesday

when a federal judge agreed with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's

definition that sugar cane is not a fruit, vegetable or perishable commodity.
That simple act means that Caribbean cane cutters working in South

Florida are not eligible for a special immigration program that would have

granted them much broader rights-- including the right to get jobs in other

industries -- and eventually allow them to apply for U.S. citizenship.

The ruling -- a summary judgment by U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan in
Washington-- came as good news to sugar growers, who feared they would have

lost their skilled cane cutters to other jobs.

Ironically, the decision came one day after busloads of cane cutters

began piling into a new temporary immigration office in South Bay to ensure

their eligibility for the work permits.

On Monday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service opened an office at the
Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association complex in South Bay to begin

processing the workers. The activity continued Tuesday, even as the ruling was
being filed in Washington.

The Special Agricultural Workers program, part of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986, offered residency to seasonal workers who could prove they
harvested perishable crops in the United States for 90 days during the

year ending May 1, 1986.

Once the legislation became law, Congress authorized the USDA to

determine what crops were covered by the SAW program. The USDA, though deeming
such crops as cut flowers and Christmas trees as perishable, excluded sugar

cane.

In Tuesday's ruling, Hogan sided with a revised USDA description that

excluded vegetables eaten as a dessert.

Cane cutters come to the United States annually under the H2-A program,

which permits employers to import foreign workers when the federal government
determines there is not enough domestic labor to do the job.

The stakes were high in the debate over sugar cane's inclusion in the SAW
program.

"If we were to prevail . . . there would be 8,000 foreign cane cutters

able to stay in this country and ultimately enjoy the benefits of United

States citizenship," said Steven Routh, a Washington attorney representing

the cane cutters.

Meanwhile, Florida's sugar companies feared they would lose their

harvesters.

"U.S. Sugar candidly explained to the court that the company fears losing the
sugar cane workers it has been successfully obtaining for years under the
so-called `H-2' foreign guest worker program," Hogan wrote in his ruling.

Counsel for the cane cutters are considering an appeal, Routh said.

* Staff writer Dean Jones contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 4, 1989 Saturday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

CITIZENSHIP PAPERS FOUND IN COMPUTER

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials Friday blasted as false and irresponsible a U.S.

Justice Department audit claiming that 23,000 citizenship certificates had

been lost from the Miami office.

But about 14,000 of the supposedly missing documents belonged to new

citizens sworn in by then-Chief Justice Warren Burger in a July 1986 ceremony at
the Orange Bowl, Perry Rivkind, head of INS in Florida, said Friday.

"The fact is, they never were missing," Rivkind said.

All but 1,200 of the supposedly missing certificates were found in one

computer bank, he said.

A judge Thursday allowed Theresa Jackson to profit from selling the story

of how she instigated her daughter's suicide by pushing the teen to work in a
strip club.

Jackson's lawyer, Donna Draves, said her client could receive $50,000 to

$200,000.

"We can go forward now as a result of this hearing," said Connie Ginakis

of Orlando, who is reviewing the offers for Jackson, convicted in October 1987
of child abuse, forgery and procuring a sexual performance by a child.

Jackson's daughter, Tina Mancini, 17, killed herself in the family's Coral
Springs home in March 1986.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DADE/BROWARD/STATE / IN BRIEF Dade / Broward / State / In Brief JUDGE:
JACKSON CAN PROFIT DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 8, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWYERS WANT NEW CHIEF

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXAS


Austin immigration lawyers applauded news reports Tuesday that the Bush

administration will replace immigration Commissioner Alan Nelson in the wake

of a Justice Department audit that accused the agency of widespread

mismanagement.

"The service has been mismanaged from top to bottom for the 12 years I've
practiced immigration law," said attorney Paul Parsons. "I'm glad Nelson is

leaving. We need new leadership to organize the chaos in immigration offices

nationwide."

Attorney Thomas Esparza said he hoped Bush and Attorney General Dick

Thornburgh would appoint a director of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service willing to cooperate with Mexico, the country of origin for about 80

percent of U.S. immigrants.

"It would be nice to see a Hispanic commissioner," Esparza said. "It

would be nice to see someone at the top with the vision to see that Mexico

isn't going to disappear, to see that digging a trench is not going to make

economic reality on both sides of the border disappear."

Critics recently blasted Nelson for INS plans to dig a 4-mile ditch along
California's border with Mexico to stop smuggling and illegal immigration.

But Ed Dornbusch, an INS investigator, said the audit and ditch

controversy are not realistic reflections of Nelson's leadership of the

immigration service.

"Some of those things that were written about are true. There is a big

backlog of cases," Dornbusch said. "But that doesn't take into account that

we're constantly jumping from one crisis to another. Under the circumstances, I
think Mr. Nelson did a great job."

U.S. Rep Jake Pickle praised Nelson but said it was time for a change at

the INS.

"Alan Nelson has done a good job, but it's time to let new leadership

come forth," Pickle said.

"If I have one criticism, it's that the INS has been too slow and let

problems come to it, rather than deal with the situation aggressively. But

they have one of the toughest jobs in the country right now and I'm

sympathetic to their situation," Pickle said.

Attorney Parson said slowness is at the heart of most problems immigrants and
their attornies have with the INS.

"They are averaging six months to process a routine petition to classify

an alien as the spouse of a U.S. citizen. They average three months to process
temporary work visas for professionals. And they average over 10 months for a
naturalization application to become a U.S. citizen. There is no excuse for

these kinds of routine applications to take such a long time," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 14, 1989 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

TEXAS CRACKDOWN SLOWS REFUGEE INFLUX

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 56 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The crackdown on the Texas border with Mexico has sharply reduced the

stream of Central American refugees into the Miami area, perhaps by as much as
half, church and immigration officials say.

But they agree that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

decision to detain undocumented immigrants in South Texas has not stopped the
flow.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Dade / Broward / State / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 23, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MEXICO CALLS INS PRESENCE AN `INTRUSION'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The Foreign Relations Department announced Wednesday it has no agreement

with the United States allowing U.S. immigration officials to be based in

Mexico.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service recently posted teams of

agents in Mexico to monitor the routes of Central Americans passing through

the country on their way to the United States, mostly to southern Texas.

The operation, which began Feb. 21 and has been canceled, came under

criticism in Mexico. Mexican newspapers called it "outrageous intrusion on

Mexican sovereignty."

The INS was quoted as saying its patrols were carried out with the

cooperation of the Mexican government.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 25, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS BLAST REFUGEE POLICY AS BOAT REJECTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Leaders of Miami's Haitian community attacked what they called a racist

immigration policy Friday after a boatload of Haitian refugees was intercepted
and turned away just outside U.S. territorial waters.

"It's clear they're playing games with the black refugees," said Gerard

Jean-Juste, director of Miami's Haitian Refugee Center. "We would like to see
something done about it."

Immigrants who make it inside the 3-mile limit of U.S. territorial waters are
brought into the country for processing, giving them legal appeal rights

and a better chance at legal residency. But those stopped outside the limit

are returned immediately to their homelands.

Haitians in South Florida long have claimed the policy amounts to a double
standard for refugees. While Cubans and Nicaraguans are received with open

arms, they say, Haitians aren't allowed in.

But a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization service official denied there

was discrimination.

"It's just that more Haitians are coming in boats than any other ethnic

group. It just looks like it. There's nothing really one can do," said INS

district director Perry Rivkind.

Petty Officer Luis Diaz said the 101 passengers-- 79 men, 21 women and one
child-- who were jammed onto a 50-foot wooden sailboat, came "real close."

"Perhaps they were just a breath away from making it into the 3 miles,"

he said.

Diaz said medical personnel had been sent to the sailboat. Two of the

would-be immigrants were taken to Memorial Hospital in Hollywood.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 7, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRAVELER WITH AIDS MAY BE RELEASED TO ATTEND MEETING

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 88 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, MINN.


A Dutch traveler suffering from AIDS should be released from prison and

allowed to attend an AIDS conference in San Francisco, immigration officials

said Thursday.

But Hans Paul Verhoef will remain in prison until the recommendation is

certified by immigration officials in Washington, said Tom Schiltgen, district
director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But he said Verhoef, 31, also met the conditions for a waiver from laws

denying entry to people with dangerous contagious diseases and could be freed
this morning.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 8, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AIDS VICTIM RELEASED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, MINN.


A federal judge Friday overrode U.S. immigration officials and ordered a

Dutch visitor suffering from AIDS released from prison so he can attend a

conference on the disease.

Immigration Judge Robert Vinikoor said Hans Paul Verhoef had met standards
required to allow him to be excluded from laws barring foreigners with

dangerous and communicable diseases from entering the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  National News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 4, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOTTERY WINNER GRANTED ASYLUM

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Nicaraguan refugee was granted political asylum Wednesday, two days after he
won a $5.3 million jackpot in the Florida lottery, but federal immigration
officials denied he received special treatment because o'This has nothing to

do with pdirector of the Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

Rivkind said that the asylum application from Lotto winner Justo Ricardo

Somarriba, 30, was reviewed Wednesday as a result of a story that appeared in a
Fort Lauderdale newspaper.

"They published an article saying that he had been denied asylum and would

be deported," Rivkind said. "That was false, but it went out all over the

country. Since that was grossly unfair to him, I pulled his claim. It had been
sitting there, part of a big backlog."

On reviewing the claim, Rivkind said, "I found he had a well-founded fear of
persecution (if he were deported to Nicaragua). He was a teacher in the

Sandinista government who refused to do propaganda. No question he had a valid
claim. So to stop any talk of deportation, I granted asylum to him, his wife

and his three children."

Rivkind said there are about 35,000 asylum applications from Nicaraguan

refugees awaiting decisions. About 60 percent will be denied, he said. "They

have to prove they have a well-founded fear," he said.

Miami immigration lawyer Jeffrey Brauwerman said he found it interesting

that Somarriba was granted asylum after winning.

"Most of my clients, who aren't millionaires, would be turned down,"

based on claims similar to that made by the Lotto winner, he said.

Even if Somarriba's request had been denied, it is unlikely he would have been
deported. Deportation must be approved by the Justice Department and so

far it has returned only convicted criminals, Rivkind said. Somarriba

entered the country by crossing the Rio Grande River near Brownsville, Texas, on
March 22, 1987, according to the INS. He got a job in Miami as a $3.50-an- hour
hardware sales clerk. He lives there with his wife, Maria Elena, and

three children, Rosa Elena, 9, Maria, 7, and Yuliza, 3. He filed his

application for asylum on May 6, 1987.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 12, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETAINEES' STRIKE, THREAT OF FIRE PROMPT LOCKDOWN

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A hunger strike by 125 Haitian detainees and evidence that materials were

being gathered to start a fire prompted authorities Thursday to put the Krome
Avenue detention facility under a full lockdown, immigration officials said.

Sixty riot officers were brought to the western Dade County facility where
illegal immigrants await hearings on their status, and another 30 officers

from Texas and Louisiana were en route because of understaffing at Krome, said
Perry Rivkind, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

"The information we have is they started to gather strips of cloth, paper

and other flammable materials along with storing matches in order to start a

fire at Krome," Rivkind said.

Some detainees also had rocks and metal objects in their pockets, he said. The
lockdown was ordered in light of the expected trouble Sunday when a

demonstration is to be held outside the facility, Rivkind said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 19, 1989 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

NEW RULES WILL PERMIT FOREIGNERS WITH AIDS TO VISIT U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Persons who have AIDS will be allowed to enter the United States to attend

conferences, conduct business or receive medical treatment under new rules

being drafted by immigration authorities.

Foreigners infected with AIDS or the HIV virus can apply for 30-day visas
provided they do not seek to travel to this country as tourists, the Justice

Department said Thursday.

The new regulations, to be issued shortly by the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, will allow foreigners infected with AIDS to visit

relatives, conduct business, seek medical treatment or attend conferences,

said Justice Department spokesman David Runkel.

The regulations were drafted after last month's dispute over a Dutch AIDS
patient who was detained by federal authorities in Minneapolis while en route to
an AIDS conference in San Francisco, Runkel said.

An immigration judge overruled the INS' refusal to grant Hans Paul

Verhoef, 31, of Rotterdam, a waiver to an exclusion order.

Verhoef admitted he had AIDS after U.S. Customs Service agents at the

Minneapolis airport found the drug AZT in his baggage.

The immmigration judge, whose decision was not appealed by the Justice

Department, held that Verhoef was entitled to an exclusion waiver because he

presented only a minimal risk of infecting others.

During the hearing, Verhoef pledged to follow safe-sex procedures to avoid
infecting others during his visit.

INS asks foreigners seeking to enter the country to state whether they

have a contagious disease. Congress added AIDS to the list two years ago.

The new regulation is expected to be in place before the June 4 start of

the 5th International Conference on AIDS in Montreal.

Attorney General Dick Thornburgh had been asked by organizers of the 1990
conference, scheduled for San Francisco, to relax restrictions so AIDS

patiends could attend the meeting next year.

There was also concern expressed about people traveling through this

country to the Montreal conference this spring, said Urvashi Vaid, a

spokeswoman for the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 24, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHILD ABUSER RELEASED FROM PRISON, DEPORTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A babysitter who pleaded guilty in 1985 in one of Florida's most notorious

child abuse cases has been released from prison and deported to her native

Honduras, immigration officials said Tuesday.

Ileana Fuster was convicted along with her husband, Frank, in 1985 on

charges of child abuse at the Country Walk day care center in southwest Dade

County.

Mrs. Fuster, who had served about four years of her 10-year sentence, was
released from the Florida State Prison for Women at Lowell May 16, said Perry
Rivkind, Miami district director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

She was placed in the custody of immigration officials and two days later put on
a plane to Tegucigalpa, Honduras, said Rivkind, adding that the release was not
announced at the time for Mrs. Fuster's own security.

Mrs. Fuster, 22, had written the INS from prison before her release,

asking to be permitted to remain in the country, Rivkind said. But the INS

director said she was illegally in the country and a convicted felon.

"She'll never be able to return to the United States," he said.

Mrs. Fuster pleaded guilty to 12 counts of sexual battery and lewd assault
charges, while her husband, who has never admitted guilt, was convicted on 14
counts of sexual battery, lewd assault, and aggravated assault.

He is currently serving six consecutive life sentences, plus 110 years.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 13, 1989 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY `BANKRUPT,' JUDGE SAYS;
SOUTH FLORIDA'S REFUGEE FLOOD CITED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The refugee influx into South Florida is a prime example of a "totally

bankrupt" immigration policy, according to a federal immigration judge.

Saying that immigration policy was tinged with politics, Judge Bruce Solow urged
that control be transferred from the executive branch's Justice

Department to an arm of Congress.

Solow's comments Sunday were at a forum on immigration problems stemming

from the flood of Haitian, Cuban and Central American refugees.

"Miami is the greatest example of a failed policy we have," said Solow,

citing the area's overburdened schools and hospitals. The judge also

criticized the lack of emergency federal aid.

Solow said enforcement of immigration laws depended on the political

winds.

Critics of the refugee policy have charged that it is racist in turning

away would-be Haitian immigrants, while Cubans and Central Americans have been
routinely allowed into the country.

The Coast Guard intercepted a 30-foot sailboat with 27 Haitians aboard in the
Windward Passage Monday. The Florida-bound refugees boarded the cutter and were
returned to their homeland.

Friday, the Coast Guard picked up four Cuban men and one woman on an

inner-tube raft about 6 miles off the Florida Keys. The group was taken to

Islamorada and turned over to officials from the Immigration and

Naturalization Service. The INS usually grants political asylum to Cubans who
make the death-defying trip.

Solow also said the policy toward Nicaraguan immigrants was a disaster.

"There is no greater fiasco in my mind than our present Nicaraguan

policy," Solow said.

He said while then-U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese was encouraging

Nicaraguan immigrants to seek political asylum in the United States, border

guards had the responsibility of repelling all illegal entrants at the Rio

Grande.

And two years after Congress approved amnesty for thousands of longtime

undocumented aliens, Solow said, legislators are considering bills that would
legalize the status of newly arrived Nicaraguans and Salvadorans.

"If I were a Soviet Jew," he told the forum held by the Greater Miami

Chapter of the American Jewish Committee, "I'd do like everybody else. I'd go to
Mexico City, pay a coyote, cross the border and drop into the woodwork. In seven
years, I'd be ready for citizenship."

Black leaders disputed a suggestion that the influx of Nicaraguan refugees last
year had anything to do with January disturbances in black neighborhoods.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 21, 1989 Friday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

FAU STUDENTS JOIN SUPPORT FOR CHINESE;
CAMPAIGN SEEKS TO LET GRADUATES STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By ERNESTINE WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Florida Atlantic University students joined a national campaign Thursday to
allow Chinese students to remain in the United States after they graduate.

The FAU student government will send a representative to Washington on

Tuesday to join a march urging Congress to amend federal immigration laws so

the students can stay, said student government President Mariann Rowland.

Student government officers previously had passed two resolutions

supporting the extension and denouncing the Chinese government's crackdown on
student demonstrators in May. The action resulted in the deaths of from 200 to
several thousand students who demanded free press and a democratic society.

Students who publicly supported the Tiananmen Square protests are afraid to
return home because of government retaliation, said Yang Wang, a physics

major at FAU.

"I don't think going back to China at this time is a wise choice," Yang

said. "We have a lot of students and scholars that are going to graduate this
year, and they need protection."

Federal immigration laws require Chinese students to return to their

country for two years before they can apply for immigrant status, Rowland

said.

Because some students are afraid to return to China, however, the

attorney general adopted a policy in June allowing them to stay in the U.S.

until June 5, 1990. Students who accept the extension, however, are ineligible
to apply for a visa adjustment or permanent residency once the extension

expires.

A measure sponsored by U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., would amend the federal
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the two-year residence

requirement for Chinese students.

University students around the country held news conferences Thursday to urge
support for Pelosi's amendment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 22, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GLASNOST MAY BRING HORDE OF SOVIET REFUGEES

BYLINE: By JOHN DILLON, Christian Science Monitor News Service

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 829 words


The Russians are coming! The Russians are coming!

This time it's not the popular 1966 movie-- it's real life. Newly proposed laws
in the U.S.S.R. could soon free hundreds of thousands of Soviet citizens to
emigrate to the United States. U.S. sources predict that requests for

permission to emigrate could soar to 100,000 or 125,000 this year, and 250,000
in 1990. Potential emigres include Jews, Armenians, Pentecostals and other

minorities who have long sought to leave the Soviet Union.

The sudden rush of Soviet immigrants, however, could severely test

America's traditional open-door policy toward anyone fleeing communism. It

could also strain the federal budget; the cost to U.S. taxpayers for

resettling each refugee averages $7,000.

As Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost (openness) opens the U.S.S.R.' s doors,

some Americans are cheering, while others are calling for a rapid reassessment
of U.S. immigration policies. Congress and the administration, worried that

bureaucratic rules might slam America's doors in the face of new arrivals,

recently doubled the number of Soviet refugees who will be accepted here to

43,500 a year. The Senate also has approved a bill that would make it easier

to qualify as a refugee.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, notes
that for years the U.S. called upon Soviet leaders to let their people

out. "Now they're finally doing it, and the U.S. feels an obligation to let

these Soviets in," Mr. Jervis observes.

According to reports out of Moscow, the Soviet government has drafted new,
easier emigration rules, which will go to the Supreme Soviet for approval by

the end of the year. Among other things, the rules would restrict the Soviet

government's power to deny exit visas to its citizens because of their

knowledge of state secrets. But as the Soviets liberalize their rules, some

analysts are worried that U.S. immigration policies will need quick revamping.
Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration

Reform, observes:

"Policies that make sense when you are talking about Mikhail Baryshnikov

don't make sense when you're talking about 20 million people."

Mr. Stein wonders whether Congress has fully grasped the impact of large- scale
immigration from the Soviet Union. It comes atop growing immigration

from Central America, the Caribbean, Mexico and Southeast Asia.

"Everyone (in Congress and the White House) wants to play Santa Claus"

to the world, Mr. Stein says.

Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, son of an immigrant

mother, says

Congress is well aware of the looming difficulties. He calls the level of

immigration over the next few years a "very difficult question."

Mr. Mitchell says that senators have "concern about the capacity of our

society to absorb all of those who wish to come here from other countries."

He told a small group of reporters in his office recently: "It seems to me

very clear that the answer is, we cannot simply accept everyone who wants to

come. We have always, in our society, distinguished between those seeking

refugee status . . . and those who are immigrants solely for economic

reasons."

20,000 AS REFUGEES

Traditionally, Soviet citizens fled their country to escape religious or

political persecution, or to be reunited with their families abroad. But as

the doors swing open, thousands are expected to leave for economic reasons.

Last year, the U.S. accepted 2,949 Soviet emigres under ordinary

immigration rules, which include family reunification. Another 20,421 came as
refugees, a huge increase over the 3,694 accepted in 1987. Most of last year's
Soviet refugees were Jews who left on Israeli visas but who were accepted here
as refugees when they expressed a preference for the U.S.

Dan Mariachin, a spokesman for B'nai B'rith International, says that the

number of Jews in the Soviet Union today is estimated at more than 2 million.
"Clearly, many hundreds of thousands want to go," he says.

ISRAEL LESS ATTRACTIVE

Sen. Mitchell says that three years ago, on a visit to the Soviet Union,

he asked a number of "refuseniks" how many Jews might like to leave. The

answers varied widely-- from 100,000 to 1 million, he says. But the numbers

Mr. Mitchell cites do not include other minority groups, such as Armenians,

many of whom are also anxious to leave.

Mr. Mariachin says: "We have never been confronted with free and open

immigration (from communist countries), and the Jewish community is looking at
that. Israel is another destination which could absorb many thousands," he

notes. But in recent years Israel has become a less attractive destination. In
earlier years, 80 percent of Soviet Jews went to Israel, a fraction to the

U.S. Today those numbers are reversed.

While the U.S. sets a ceiling on the number of refugees, including Soviet
refugees, accepted each year, the president, in consultation with Congress,

can readily boost those numbers. Some members of the Senate say the attitude

now is: Let in everyone. But that mood could quickly change.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (DRAWING)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 12, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEE AID GROUP BLASTS U.S. POLICIES;
TREATMENT OF FOREIGNERS INHUMANE, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: By SETH KANTOR, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group highly critical of U.S. deportation practices in south Texas and

off the shores of Florida called Monday for an end to "unacceptable,

inhumane" treatment of foreigners seeking political asylum in America.

"The United States is deporting people seeking refuge to countries where

their safety cannot be guaranteed-- and to which they are afraid to return,"

the U.S. Committee for Refugees concluded in a report.

It was issued as the House subcommittee on immigration, refugees and

international law prepared to hold hearings today on immigration policy

reform.

"It is paradoxical that Soviet Jews and East Germans by the thousands are able
now to flee their homelands for new freedom in the West because of more

relaxed humanitarian policies behind the Iron Curtain while Central America is
producing a stream of refugees for exactly the opposite reason," said Bill

Frelick, a policy analyst for the refugees organization.

He wrote the report after visiting Matamoros, Mexico, and four south Texas
cities-- Harlingen, Brownsville, Port Isabel and Laredo-- to examine

conditions facing Central American refugees.

Before the Immigration and Naturalization Service implemented its strict

detention and deportation policy in December, "We were detaining no one,"

the report quotes Robert Wooten, who is in charge of the Brownsville sector of
the U.S. Border Patrol, as saying.

Frelick said the policy of detaining all refugees until resolution of

their requests violated their rights.

"A `safe haven' mechanism is urgently needed to prevent the deportation

of persons who fear return to dangerous, violent conditions," Frelick wrote.

The committee, a non-profit group founded in 1958, is recommending that

Congress suspend the deportation of people from El Salvador and Nicaragua or

that Attorney General Dick Thornburgh grant temporary stays on humanitarian

grounds.

The committee also is asking President Bush to change U.S. policies that

have allowed the Coast Guard since 1981 to intercept boats carrying more than
20,000 Haitians, claiming to be political refugees, before they could reach

asylum in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 3, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NICARAGUAN REFUGEES DESERVE U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: By HARRY SHAMIS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 630 words


Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., and Rep. Joe Moakley, D-Mass., have co-

sponsored a bill to allow a couple hundred thousand undocumented

Nicaraguans and Salvadorans to legally live and work in the United States for
two years or more, until such time as U.S. authorities determine whether they
can return to their homelands in political safety.

In the past three years the House of Representatives said yes, but the

Senate and the White House said no. With national elections scheduled in

February in Nicaragua, the issue will not go away. Both houses may vote again on
the proposal before recessing in mid-November. Which position is more

sensible?

RIGHTS STAND CONTRADICTED

The White House view is that the 1986 Immigration Reform Act must be

protected against massive immigration of discontents into this country. Sen.

Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., insists that political asylum should be considered only on
a case-by-case basis, which is the present policy. Immigration and

Naturalization Service statistics for 1989 reveal that less than 20 percent of
Nicaraguan applications have been approved, more than 40 percent disapproved,
with the remaining 40 percent still being considered. The results of this

case-by-case approach apparently are acceptable to Sen. Simpson and President
Bush.

Proponents of the DeConcini-Moakley bill basically assert that the White

House position contradicts its official international stance on the issues of
human rights and political freedom.

For the past nine years, the administration has branded the Sandinista

regime as a Marxist-Leninist oppression of the Nicaraguan people and has

campaigned against the Arena party of El Salvador as sponsors of the death

squads that have made the latter country a very unsafe place for social and

economic reformists.

Since the president has yet to express confidence that the Nicaraguan

elections or the current Arena government in El Salvador will produce

political freedom, how can it force individual refugees to prove their cases

as if they were talented lawyers, sociologists and political scientists?

COLD WAR POLITICS

The administration will not be trapped into responding directly to

arguments of principle. Most in Congress are aware that our State Department

rhetoric of this decade was little more than a reflection of a new extension

of the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union.

While the DeConcini-Moakley bill may pass the House, it is far from

certain to make it through the Senate. Majority leader Sen. George Mitchell,

D-Maine, has not yet taken a position, nor is he sure of the votes of

Democratic senators from Nebraska, Alabama, Oklahoma, South Carolina or

Nevada. If it passes in both houses, it may not survive a veto by President

Bush.

Regardless of the outcome of the vote, it has less to do with the

Immigration Reform Act of 1986 than with the irresponsible use of political

immigration as a Cold War tool by the State Department. To have encouraged and
assisted hundreds of thousands to flee their lands for political and economic
refuge in the United States, only to be confronted with threatened deportation
(on a case-by-case basis), is unworthy of a government that has become so

skilled in its advocacy of human rights.

At this stage of the game, our government's appraisal of the regimes in

Nicaragua and El Salvador should be of no importance in dealing with the

refugees who already live here. Those who wish to return to their native lands
should be free to do so. Yet, those who feel that their new land offers

opportunities for themselves and their families should be permitted to remain,
for it was the U.S. State Department, CIA and the president who bore primary

responsibility for their arrival.

*

Harry Shamis is a freelance writer who lives in Miami. He wrote this

article for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(MUG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 9, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ANTI-CASTRO MILITANT'S DEPORTATION UPHELD

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The U.S. Justice Department acted properly when it ordered jailed anti-

Castro militant Orlando Bosch deported because of his terrorist activities,

a federal judge ruled Wednesday.

The ruling came as a blow to Bosch's relatives and supporters in the Cuban

community who have fought for the ailing 62-year-old pediatrician's release

from prison.

Calling his ruling "another chapter in the sad odyssey of Orlando Bosch,"

U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler wrote that Bosch would not be deported
until all appeals by his attorneys have been exhausted.

The Justice Department ruled in June that Bosch, who has been jailed in

Miami for a parole violation since he re-entered the U.S. in February 1988,

should be deported because he is a terrorist.

Bosch's attorneys had argued that the Justice Department overstepped its

authority by reversing an earlier ruling by the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service that would have enabled Bosch to avoid deportation.

Bosch's daughter, Myriam Bosch, cried when she heard of the judge's ruling. "Why
didn't they do this two years ago instead of putting him through this

torture?" she said. "If he gets deported, he's dead. I just hoped we'd win

one battle. This is not what this country is supposed to stand for."

Before justice officials took over the case, immigration officials concluded
that there was insufficient evidence to warrant his deportation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 14, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

7 INDIANS RELEASED, ORDERED TO TESTIFY IN SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Seven Indian nationals were released from jail by a federal magistrate

Wednesday on their promise to appear in court later to testify against the two
men accused of smuggling them illegally into the Lake Worth Inlet.

But if immigration officials have their way, another federal judge may

make it impossible for the immigrants to keep their promise. The U.S. Border

Patrol has asked that the men be deported to India.

"Upon your release, the immigration court will proceed to exclude Mr.

Masih," Carol Vlack Topor, the attorney for one of the men, Khurshee Masih,

told U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac.

"He will be returned to India. If you release him on his promise to

return to trial, and immigration returns him to India, perhaps you are putting
him in a Catch-22," Topor said.

Masih is one of seven Indian nationals detained by the U.S. Coast Guard

Aug. 27 after their vessel entered the Lake Worth Inlet. The Border Patrol has
asked an immigration judge to order the group returned to India "because they
don't have any legal status here," said Chief Patrol Agent Marshall Metzgar.

All seven men have given sworn statements to Assistant U.S. Attorney

Anthony Gonzalez, who is prosecuting the two men charged with smuggling the

immigrants, Topor wrote in a motion Nov. 29. Topor asked the magistrate to

release the seven because their testimony was recorded for the trial.

"I intend to order them to come back to court," Vitunac said. "Whether

they appear for trial I can't say. That's a matter for another day. . . . This
court has no option but to order them to come back for trial."

Metzgar said the Border Patrol can ask an immigration judge to keep the

seven men at the Krome Detention Center southwest of Miami until the two

alleged alien smugglers, Charles Gary Gilbert and David Anthony Dames, have

been tried.

"That's up to the immigration judge to keep them here until the other

action is finished," Metzgar said.

Topor, who said she has resigned from the Federal Public Defender's

Office, criticized the government for keeping the men jailed as witnesses

despite their not being charged with a crime.

"They get no consideration for the fact that they cooperated with the

government," Topor said. "It appears one hand of the government uses them

while another arm holds them."

One of the immigrants, Harpal Singh-- who is a Sikh-- asked Vitunac on

Wednesday to allow him to wear his turban at the Krome center. Adherents of

the 500-year-old religion grow their hair long and cover their heads.

"The other people from other cultures see my hair and call me gay or call me a
woman," Singh said. "Please allow me to wear a turban."

Vitunac said that while she sympathizes with Singh and other Sikhs, she

can't order his jailers to alter their dress code. "I can only apologize for

the ignorant people with whom you have to deal," Vitunac said, "and I hope

this ordeal will soon be over."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 15, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS WORK PERMITS WOULD SEND ALIENS AWAY FROM MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary said Thursday he was studying a plan

to bar Central Americans from working in overloaded labor markets such as

Miami and San Diego while seeking political asylum.

Under the plan being reviewed by the Immigration and Naturalization

Service, work permits issued to aliens applying for political asylum would

restrict them from taking jobs in cities where there is a glut of cheap labor
caused by a large concentration of new arrivals.

The work permits "may exclude Miami or San Diego or areas that are

overrun at the present time" by aliens, McNary said.

In Miami alone there are 50,000 people, mostly Central Americans, seeking
refugee status. The large concentration of would-be refugees strains the local
labor market and community social services.

In Miami, the INS plan drew mixed reactions.

Immigration attorneys say the policy isn't workable because most refugees

who come to Miami don't want to go elsewhere. Government officials, however,

see it as a way to reduce the burden the refugee influx has had on public

services.

"Most foreigners who come here want to live in a community of people with

their own culture," said Jeff Brauwerman, a Miami attorney and member of the

American Immigration Lawyers Association. "You're not going to get a

Nicaraguan who wants to settle in Boise, Idaho."

Brauwerman said the INS plan reeks of "Big Brotherism." Under the

Constitution, "people are free to live anywhere they want."

Tony Ojeda, assistant Dade County manager, said the government would support the
plan because it would help eliminate the congestion caused by the recent

influx of Central American refugees.

"Everyone should share in the burden of refugees, not just Miami," Ojeda

said.

McNary said he has asked the INS general counsel to review whether the

agency has legal authority to place such restrictions on work permits granted to
people applying for political asylum.

McNary, who took office Oct. 26, acknowledged that "I don't feel as

though I have control" of the sprawling agency that has been criticized for

mismanagement.

Under McNary's predecessor, Alan Nelson, INS came under repeated criticism for
mismanagement and inefficiency. An audit ordered by Attorney General Dick
Thornburgh sharply criticized the management of the agency under Nelson.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 3, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' FAIRNESS' POLICY ALLOWS ALIENS' RELATIVES TO STAY

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Under fire from Latin American groups and Congress, the Bush administration
Friday liberalized an immigration policy to allow close relatives of legalized
aliens to remain in the country while they wait to qualify for permanent

residence.

The new "family fairness" policy affects tens of thousands of spouses

and children who faced possible deportation because they entered the country

after a 1982 cutoff on amnesty for illegal aliens. The policy takes effect

Feb. 14.

Gene McNary, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,

scrapped a set of vague, 3-year-old guidelines he said were interpreted

narrowly by regional officials oriented toward deportation and broadly by

those inclined to make humanitarian choices.

"Many thousands who may be eligible for benefits were not applying

because of confusion and fear they might be deported if they came forward,"

McNary said.

In his directive to field offices, McNary expanded the number of family

members eligible for relief from deportation, authorized them to obtain work

permits and made it clear that the policy should be implemented in "a

consistent and humanitarian manner."

"Commissioner McNary deserves credit for acting quickly to avert the

separation of hundreds-- and potentially tens of thousands-- of innocent

children and spouses of newly legalized persons," said Cecilia Munoz of the

National Council of La Raza. "This may be a turning point for INS."

Also applauding the move was Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., the sponsor of
related legislation.

"After the hypocritical and mean-spirited years of (former INS

Commissioner) Alan Nelson's approach to this issue, I think it's a real breath
of fresh air," Berman said.

Francisco Garcia of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational

Fund called the new policy "just interim relief for families who face

separation." He said "the only positive thing" was work authorization for

affected family members.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS WANTS NATIONAL WORKER CARDS TO HELP STEM FLOOD OF ILLEGAL;
ALIENS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A national worker identification card could stem the flood of illegal

aliens entering the United States and reduce instances of employment

discrimination based on race or ethnic background, the nation's chief

immigration officer said Wednesday.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Gene McNary said

"there are good reasons" to support the issuance of such cards, known as

worker authorization documents. But McNary said he would not formally endorse
the concept until he had discussed it further with civil libertarians and

other potentially interested groups.

"If a law passed establishing an employment authorization document, I

believe it would greatly enhance our ability to enforce employer sanctions and
it would give us, as a nation, the ability to eliminate the discrimination"

against foreign-looking workers, McNary said.

Immigration officials said a worker identity card would contain several

safeguards-- such as laminated holograms that would be difficult to duplicate --
that would make it nearly counterfeit-proof.

To avoid complaints that issuing such a card would be discriminatory, it

would be issued to all American workers and to legal aliens. The card would

only be used for purposes of employment, and citizens would not be required to
carry it at all times, McNary said.

The card may be recommended as part of a congressionally ordered General

Accounting Office report on discrimination stemming from the 1986 Immigration
Reform and Control Act, which imposes sanctions against employers who

knowingly hire illegal aliens.

Since the act took effect, the GAO has documented numerous cases of

employment discrimination against legal aliens and American-born residents who
are of Hispanic or Asian origin.

A GAO spokesman said the report, originally due last November, could be

issued late this month or early in April.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 16, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN DEPORTATIONS CALLED INHUMANE

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Community leaders called on the federal government Tuesday to stop

deporting Haitians following the recent arrests in Port-au-Prince of 28 former
South Florida detainees.

Last week, Haitian police arrested and jailed 28 deportees who had been

detained by U.S. immigration officials at the Krome Detention Center in

western Dade County.

Miami resident Jean Voltaire, 26, said his common-law wife, Rose-Marie

Nestor, 34, is one of those incarcerated in the National Penitentiary in

Haiti.

"She will be killed in jail because she has had problems with military

personnel before," Voltaire said during a news conference at the Haitian

Refugee Center in Little Haiti.

The center's attorney, Cheryl Little, said the 28 deportees were arrested as
part of an investigation by Haitian authorities into trafficking in

fraudulent travel documents. But most of the deportees are "boat people" who

fled Haiti for South Florida without any travel papers, Little said. None of

the 28 has been charged, she said.

Inmates of the penitentiary in the Haitian capital commonly languish there for
more than a year without being charged with a crime, Little said. The

facility is notorious for torturing prisoners and denying them food, Haitian

refugees say.

The Haitian Refugee Center, along with the National Coalition for Haitian
Refugees and the Interfaith Coalition for Immigrants, want U.S. officials to

suspend the deportations of Haitians seeking political asylum until the

political climate in Haiti improves dramatically.

"To do otherwise is to forcibly return these people to certain

incarceration and possibly death," Little said. "Until we have a democracy

in Haiti, it is inhumane to deport these refugees."

The groups are notifying members of Congress to pressure the Immigration

and Naturalization Service to grant Haitians "voluntary departure status."

Such a status, which postpones deportation indefinitely, has been granted to

other refugee groups in the past, including Cubans and Nicaraguans.

"I am very afraid," said Villa Labranche, 26, a Krome detainee for 19

months who faces deportation, possibly by next week. "If they send me back, I
will lose my life."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 20, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POLICIES ON AIDS ASSAILED;
ACTIVISTS MARCH IN SAN FRANCISCO

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


In the first of many protests planned to disrupt the 6th International AIDS
Conference, hundreds of gay activists blocked the city's streets at rush hour
Tuesday to demonstrate opposition to U.S. immigration policies they say

discriminate against people infected with the AIDS virus.

Marching through downtown to an Immigration and Naturalization Service

office, activists began a week of protests that some say could turn violent

and test the city's reputation as a national symbol of urban civility.

"We hope this will be a week without violence," said Kevin Farrell,

speaking for AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power.

The organization of AIDS activists is scheduled to orchestrate many of the
planned protests.

Farrell said, "No violence will be started, continued or condoned by any

ACTUP organization."

Despite those assurances, tensions are high and San Francisco police were on
full alert as thousands of delegates arrived for the AIDS conference. In

addition, tens of thousands of gay men and lesbians are expected to protest

and celebrate Gay and Lesbian and Pride Week.

Although it is long, the meeting's scientific program so far has received second
billing. The conference has been the world's most important annual AIDS meeting,
but over the past few years, as its political significance has grown, its
scientific impact has diminished steadily.

In part, that is because AIDS no longer is a complete medical mystery but a
major epidemic that has drawn billions of dollars of federal research funds in
the United States alone and the intellectual energy of many of the world's most
able scientists.

Three or four years ago, it was common for important discoveries to be

unveiled at the AIDS meeting, but these days few researchers wait for it.

In 1985, when the meeting was begun, so little was known about the AIDS

virus that each development, every new piece of the puzzle, was considered

significant. Now the highly public meetings have become more notable as

political and theatrical occasions than as research forums.

"We still need a forum like this to exchange clinical and scientific

information on AIDS," said Samuel Broder, director of the National Cancer

Institute and a leading AIDS researcher.

"I certainly don't see how violence or disruption can help alleviate

death and human suffering. And that is why we are all doing this work, isn't

it?"

Nearly 2,500 reports will be presented here this week, many by the world's top
AIDS specialists. But no matter their quality, the week promises to be

consumed with demonstrations. That partly reflects anger of AIDS activists

that after a decade, no cure, vaccine or long-term therapies have emerged.

But demonstrations also became inevitable as soon as organizers decided to hold
the meeting in the American city most closely identified with gay life

and AIDS.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 10, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFERS BOSCH DEAL FOR RELEASE;
CUBAN ACTIVIST WOULD BE UNDER HOUSE ARREST

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials Monday night made an offer to release anti-Castro

activist Orlando Bosch from federal prison and place him under house arrest,

his attorney said.

Bosch, 63, a convicted terrorist who has been in federal prison since 1988 after
illegally entering the United States, could be released as early as

today if he agrees to the government's terms, attorney Raoul Cantero said.

The list of conditions includes requirements that Bosch wear an electronic
monitoring device, remain at home for 21 hours a day, allow his telephone to

be monitored, keep a log of all visitors and travel only with permission from a
parole officer, according to a statement by Richard Smith, director of the

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.

Bosch rejected late Monday the visitors' log, but his lawyer said a

compromise still was possible.

"He's prepared to accept (most conditions). He's not prepared to send out a
message that he's an informer," Henry Adorno said.

Bosch also would be subject to unannounced searches, lie-detector tests

and would be banned from meeting with any Cuban exile groups that advocate

violence to achieve their political goals, Cantero said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 19, 1990 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HAITIAN GROUPS HAIL JUDGE'S CRITICISM OF INS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 74 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitian support groups and immigration rights advocates Wednesday hailed a

federal judge's decision criticizing immigration officials for "underhanded

tactics" used to deny asylum to Haitian refugees.

U.S. District Judge Eugene Spellman issued the opinion Tuesday in the case of
Haitian immigrant Noel Molaire, who had filed suit saying he was deprived

of his rights during an immigration appeals hearing that ended with a

deportation order against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 3, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CARPENTER MIGHT BE RELEASED ON BOND IN IRA MISSILE BUY

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


An Irish-born carpenter jailed since January on charges that he conspired

to buy a Stinger missile for the Irish Republican Army will get a second bid

for freedom Friday.

Sean McCann, 35, has been eligible for release since July, when a federal judge
upheld a report that called the case against the Palm Beach County

visitor slim. But McCann's family and friends have hesitated to post his

$200,000 cash bond out of fear that immigration officials would re-arrest him
for an expired visa.

But McCann's attorney, Jo Ann Harris, filed notice Monday that she has

obtained separate promises from the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Immigration
and Naturalization Service that they will not detain McCann as an illegal

alien if he is released on bond.

Until those assurances were made, "I simply could not advise his family

and friends to deposit the funds," Harris wrote in court documents.

Officials from the immigration service and U.S. Attorney's Office could

not be reached for comment.

On Tuesday, U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac granted a hearing for McCann on

Friday to determine conditions for his release.

Dubbed the "Florida Four," McCann and three others arrested with him go

to trial in November. They are charged with trying to buy the missile and

other explosives from undercover agents in West Palm Beach for the IRA.

More than 30 supporters in Florida, Canada and Ireland have pledged their homes
and cash to help bail McCann out of jail. Four Palm Beach County

residents have offered to supervise him. A Riviera Beach couple has offered to
allow McCann to stay in their home in exchange for his help in remodeling the
house.

"I think it's great," said Jim Panaro, chairman of the Irish Northern

Aid Committee in South Florida and an organizer for an August fund-raiser held
to help pay for the men's legal expenses. "He should have been out a long

time ago."

Many of the Irish-Americans who believe McCann is innocent had their

convictions strengthened in July when prosecutors admitted that Customs

agents were mistaken about his whereabouts on a night crucial to their case.

Vitunac ruled that with little evidence to tie him to the charges, McCann

should be the only one granted bond.

Calling it a "case of confusion," Father Frank O'Loughlin of St.

Ignatius Loyola Cathedral is helping find work for McCann at a Martin County

migrant camp.

"Isn't it a tragedy that a man who apparently is cleared by the evidence

has had to spend this amount of time in a federal prison?" O'Loughlin said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 4, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MORE EUROPEANS GET U.S. VISAS UNDER HOUSE IMMIGRATION PLAN

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a major overhaul of the nation's immigration policies, the House voted

Wednesday to allow an estimated 60 percent more foreigners to live and work in
the United States.

In addition to increasing from 500,000 to at least 775,000 the overall

number of visas issued each year, the bill would create a new category for

immigrants from countries whose nationals have largely been excluded because

of the current emphasis on family reunification. This provision is aimed at

opening the doors to more Europeans and would allow a greater number of

Africans to resettle.

President Bush has threatened to veto the House's Family Unity and

Employment Opportunity Act but supports a Senate version that would approve

about 630,000 visas each year.

The House version passed Wednesday by a 231-192 vote. The Senate bill

passed last year 87-17.

Reps. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, and Harry Johnston, D-West Palm

Beach, voted no to the House bill.

The present immigration law, enacted 25 years ago, emphasized family

reunification to such a degree that about 85 percent of visas went to Asians

and Latin Americans.

The bill perpetuates the current emphasis on family unity--and also

increases opportunities for other groups not only through the new visa

category, but by increasing the number of employment-related visas.

The total cap of about 775,000 does not include those who enter the

country as refugees.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will add $57

million to the budget deficit in 1991 and $210 million in 1992.

The net cost figures included estimates that the bill would raise $60

million in 1991 and $110 million by 1994 by charging employers who sponsor

immigrants. That money is to be used for retraining U.S. workers.

A conference committee to iron out differences in House and Senate

versions is to begin next week.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 6, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IRISH-BORN EX-SUSPECT EXITS U.S.;
3 DEFENDANTS REMAIN IN STINGER MISSILE CASE

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Immigration officials escorted Sean McCann to a direct airplane flight out

of the country Friday, a day after government prosecutors dropped charges

against the Irishman and cleared his name in a Stinger missile buying scheme.
McCann, 34, was to fly back to his Toronto home on Air Canada after

agreeing with the Immigration and Naturalization Service that he would

withdraw his application for admission into the United States.

The U.S. Border Patrol, an enforcement agency within INS, had issued a

detaining order on McCann after a federal judge dismissed the indictment

against him Thursday. The agency decided to hold him because his application

was never approved.

McCann had applied for admission before crossing the Canadian border into the
United States last year. He was allowed in with the agreement that

immigration officials in Houston would later consider granting admission, said
INS Director Richard Smith. But the Irish-born carpenter was arrested before

his application was processed.

"I offered to allow him to withdraw his application for admission,"

Smith said. "We think that under the circumstances, even though the charges

were dropped against him, it's best all around that he simply return to

Canada."

Smith said McCann would be allowed to re-apply for entry into the United

States at any time.

McCann's four sisters, who had flown in from Canada and Ireland to help

bail their brother out of jail, checked out of their hotels Friday. His

attorney, Jo Ann Harris, said she did not want McCann or his family to speak

to anyone about his case until they were out of the country.

McCann and three others-- Seamus Moley, Joseph McGolgan and Kevin McKinley --
were arrested in January in West Palm Beach. The men were charged with

trying to buy and export explosives for the Irish Republican Army to use

against British helicopters.

U.S. Attorney's Office spokeswoman Diane Cossin said she could not release
details on why the government decided to drop charges against McCann, but she
said the dismissal would not affect the case against the three others.

The three are expected to go to trial Nov. 13. Attorneys for the men

intend to argue that they were entrapped.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 21, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS SEES SHARP RISE IN ILLEGAL HAITIAN YOUTHS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The number of Haitian children entering the United States illegally has

increased so dramatically that immigration officials suspect an organized

smuggling ring is at work.

Some 250 unaccompanied Haitian children arrived in Miami illegally in the year
ended Sept. 30 compared with 124 the year before and only 30 two years

ago, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The increase came as Coast Guard interceptions of Haitians at sea reached their
lowest point in seven years.

Most of the illegal entrants are arriving at Miami International Airport

with fake Haitian passports or phony U.S. alien cards and birth certificates.
INS believes Haitian families are paying $500 to $2,500 for the false

documents and air fare, Smith said.

"It appears there is a system in place somewhere that facilitates these

types of documents," said immigration official Jay LaRoche.

In the biggest roundup, 59 Haitian children arrived in Miami on Sept. 12

aboard four different airlines: American, Pan Am, ALM Antillean and Haiti

Trans Air.

When the children are caught, INS takes them to the Krome Detention Center west
of Miami and tries to contact relatives. If no one qualifies to take

custody, the children are transferred under federal contract to the Catholic

Home for Children or Boystown of Florida.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 25, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEGOTIATORS AGREE TO WIDEN IMMIGRATION LIMITS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 521 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congressional negotiators agreed Wednesday to a major restructuring of U.S.
immigration policies, permitting 45 percent more people to enter the United

States in each of the next three years and about 35 percent more every year

thereafter.

Under terms of the deal, struck by a House-Senate conference committee,

700,000 people per year would be allowed to immigrate to the United States

each year from 1992 to 1994. In subsequent years, the United States would

admit 675,000 immigrants. Neither figure includes refugees.

The legislation would widen the nation's doors to Europeans, some Africans and
other foreigners who have been virtually locked out of legal immigration

by existing U.S. policy that gives preference to reuniting the families of

U.S. citizens.

Present immigration law, enacted 25 years ago, emphasized family

reunification to such an extent that about 85 percent of visas went to Asians
and Latin Americans. The bill retains an emphasis on family unity, and

increases the number of family-related visas.

But by raising the overall numbers substantially, it leaves room for

55,000 "diversity visas" for natives of "adversely affected" regions. In

addition, the legislation seeks to make it easier for people with special

skills or education to enter the country.

President Bush has supported a Senate-passed version of the legislation

that limited total immigration to 630,000 people a year. However, he has

warned House members that he would veto their more generous offer of 775,000

annual visas.

Wednesday night, after the conference split the difference between the two
bills, Administration officials declined to predict whether the president

would support it.

Conferees, however, praised their agreement, saying that the compromise

represented the best deal that could be reached to increase legal immigration
from countries with low levels of immigrants, while preserving existing

emphasis on family reunification.

"This is a good bill," said Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., a key sponsor

of the House bill and one of the conference negotiators. "It could have been

a much better bill, but we did pretty well."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., another member of the conference committee, said
the bill would "open new opportunities for immigrants with skills and

talents we need, while increasing opportunities for family reunification."

Under the compromise, during the first three years 520,000 of the total

700,000 visas would be used by families seeking to bring in family members in
the first three years. About 140,000 visas would be used for employment

purposes, and 20,000 for persons with special skills and talents.

After 1995, the family visa allotment would fall to 480,000, with 140,000
reserved for workers and 55,000 for people from low-immigration regions.

Another provision in the bill, which calls for a pilot program allowing

two states to test using driver licenses as a worker authorization document,

drew anger from the immigrant-rights activists.

The provision is intended to provide companies a more tamper-proof method of
verifying whether people who appear foreign are legally in the country and
eligible for employment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 21, 1990 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MAN GETS 15 YEARS FOR KILLING FRIEND WHO TEASED HIM

BYLINE: By PAT PLARSKI, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: STUART


A 19-year-old Stuart man was sentenced to 15 years in prison Tuesday for

killing a friend who had teased him about dating a transvestite.

Juan Giron pleaded no contest Nov. 3 to second-degree murder in the

stabbing death of Serafin Gonzalez, 53, who was found dead April 17 in his

one-bedroom apartment at the Sierra Apartment complex. He had been stabbed 35
times and his throat was slit, police said.

Circuit Judge William Frye refused a request by Giron's attorney to allow the
man to stay in the country after he is released from prison. Giron had

been in this country on a student visa.

Defense attorney Steve Rogers said Giron's family in Honduras had

received threats from Gonzalez's friends and family; they threatened to kill

Giron if he returns to Honduras.

He asked Frye to recommend against deportation, saying Giron was

remorseful and admitted stabbing Gonzalez after the older man had harassed him
about his masculinity.

But an attorney with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service told Frye
that immigration officials would have to follow any recommendation he

made regarding Giron's deportation.

Congress doesn't want it that way, attorney Ronald Sonom said. He said

Congress has passed a new immigration law, awaiting President Bush's

signature, that would no longer allow judges to make deportation decisions.

"Congress has made it quite clear; they do not want the courts to grant

these recommendations," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 30, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH SIGNS BILL ALLOWING MORE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush signed Thursday a massive revamp of the nation's immigration law
that increases the number of people allowed to immigrate and strikes down
exclusion of entry on the basis of sexual orientation and political views.

Bush hailed the first major overhaul of immigration law since 1965 as a

"complementary blending of our tradition of family reunification with

increased immigration of skilled individuals to meet our economic needs."

It changes the 1950s-era immigration ban against communists and

homosexuals, but still allows the secretary of state discretion to bar legal

status to those considered to be terrorist or foreign policy threats.

The bill will increase immigration from 540,000 in 1989 to 700,000 people a year
for each of the next three years and stabilize the annual total at

675,000 after that.

The bill's three-year total of 2.1 million visas for permanent residence

is up from 1.7 million in the previous three-year period.

The changes were hailed by Irish and other European immigrant interests

who stand to benefit from the increase, gay groups, Filipino veterans and

Salvadorans fleeing their war-torn country.

The provisions of the new law emphasize reuniting families, with

immigrants sponsored by family members increasing to 520,000 per year through
1994, and at least 480,000 a year thereafter.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAKE PAPERS HELPING ALIENS GAIN AMNESTY

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials say some firms are selling packets of fake rent

receipts, utility bills and paycheck stubs that aliens use to qualify for work
permits.

The businesses are being investigated for producing and selling documents to
aliens seeking temporary work permits under the immigration amnesty

program, said George Waldroup at the district office of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

No charges have been filed, and he refused to say how many firms or

individuals are being investigated.

Officials said immigration fraud soared after a federal court ordered the INS to
extend its amnesty program. The program, which had been scheduled to

expire in 1988, allows an alien to stay in the United States legally if he can
prove he has lived in the county since Jan. 1, 1982.

In the past year, the Miami INS office has received 12,000 applications

for the extended program said Wayne Joy, director of the amnesty program for

the district.

While the agency is withholding decisions on applications while it appeals the
court order, it must grant work permits to those aliens who appear to be

eligible.

"There is a sizeable amount of fraud," Joy said. "It's extremely

widespread."

He said the fraud is greater than detected in the amnesty program's first year.

$200 TO $2,000 FOR FAKE DOCUMENTS Barbara Warren, a private attorney who

heads the South Florida chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers

Association, said she would not be surprised if 95 percent to 98 percent of

the new applications are fraudulent.

Warren said she turns away virtually all amnesty applicants seeking her

counsel because they come with fake documents or lie on affidavits to meet the
residency requirements of the program.

Many of the aliens turn to notaries or to businesses advertising as

immigration consultants.

Some of the businesses will convince the aliens to submit phony documents for a
"quick fix" work permit, Warren said.

"These people are desperate and will do just about anything for work

authorization," she said. "They don't release the consequences of lying.

It's a permanent bar for them ever becoming a resident."

The consultants charge from $200 to $2,000 to provide the fake documents

and file the application for the alien but are not qualified to represent the
applicant if problems arise.

"These people prey on aliens," said Ira Kurzban, another Miami

immigration attorney. "They promise them everything and deliver nothing."

The demand for immigration approvals has created a host of unscrupulous

immigration consultants.

A federal grand jury last week indicted a man for offering $16,000 to an

INS assistant district director to release aliens from the Krome Detention

Center in south Dade County. Wilfrid Lazarre of Miami had hoped to persuade

the INS official to set bonds for clients he represented.

In another case, the operator of a Miami immigration assistance company

was sentenced last month to seven months in prison for selling fake INS work

authorization cards to immigrants at $500 to $1,000 each. Investigators said

the businessman, Felix Araujo, operator of Miami Future Corp., was selling

about 100 of the fake work permits each week.

Fraud is nothing new to the INS, but the amnesty program and a companion

program for farmworkers has increased the problem, INS officials said.

4,000 CASES OF FRAUD SINCE 1987

Since the programs began in 1987, 4,000 cases of fraud have been confirmed in
the amnesty program, and 10,000 cases of farmworker fraud have been

confirmed, said Duke Austin, an INS spokesman in Washington.

Austin said fraud investigations in the extended amnesty program are under way
in major cities across the country.

The class action suit that extended the program reopened eligibility for

aliens who left the United States and broke residency requirements. The INS

changed the rule during the application process but declined to extend the

application period.

"The fraud is not in attempting to gain amnesty but to get admitted to

the class and get work authorization " Austin said. "That's where the fraud

comes in."

"We have seen some applying who weren't even in the country when the law

was passed in 1986," Austin said. "They make claims that they were here

before 1982 when in fact they may be brand new arrivals."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 23, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. OPENS DOOR WIDER FOR EMBATTLED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By AMY DRISCOLL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1165 words


They lined up slowly at first, then more eagerly-- a dozen Guatemalan field
workers, each reciting a different version of the same story. Squalid living

conditions, terrible pay, almost no medical care and the constant fear of

being sent back to the political violence in their homeland.

Most had put in a full day of back-breaking work in the farms of western

Palm Beach County. They had been bused to West Palm Beach on this September

evening-- dressed stiffly in their best clothes-- to tell a panel of strangers
about their lives.

Over and over, through an interpreter, they asked the newly formed

Hispanic American Advisory Board for help. Please, they asked tearfully, let

us work. Don't send us back.

But the task force, formed to address only the most immediate and local

concerns of such people, couldn't help them with their biggest problem

-- staying in this country. Stuck in a gray area of bureaucracy, they have

sought political asylum since the early 1980s, when political killings in

Guatemala increased. Court proceedings in Florida and other border states take
two or three years. Almost always, the workers have been sent back, unable to
convince the U.S government that they could face persecution in their country.
But two recent advances in immigration policy-- major steps that allow

more immigrants and grant legal status to undocumented immigrants, such as the
Guatemalans-- seem to indicate a heartening reaffirmation of the "open-door"

policy in the United States.

How we handle immigration, who we let in and who we don't, is central to

our notion of what this country should be-- a place of continuing diversity or a
more homogeneous society. With the two policy shifts, the U.S. is taking

huge steps toward handling the flow of immigrants, considering both human

rights and economics.

The announcement last Wednesday that the U.S. would begin giving legal

status to undocumented Guatemalan and Salvadoran immigrants-- and even allow

them to work while their political asylum requests are reconsidered-- has been
hailed as a major victory for the human rights "sanctuary" movement. The

change stemmed from a 1985 lawsuit filed by more than 80 religious and refugee
organizations. The suit had charged that the U.S. government rejected the

asylum applications to avoid embarrassment to the U.S.-friendly Salvadoran and
Guatemalan governments.

Under the settlement, the government will put $200,000 toward an outreach plan
to alert refugees of their changing status. The program, which will focus on
Miami and seven other major settlement cities, will give about 350,000

people a chance at asylum.

That's in addition to the increase in immigrants allowed under the new

immigration reform bill, which opened the door even wider. The bill, which

took more than two years to craft, increases the number of immigrants allowed to
enter the United States each year from 500,000 to 700,000 beginning in

1992. In 1995 and thereafter, the number drops slightly to 675,000 a year.

Florida, which has absorbed almost 1 million legal and illegal immigrants

since 1978, can expect an additional half-million in the next five years.

FIRST CHANGE SINCE 1965

To its credit, the reform balances two competing U.S. interests:

strengthening the humane policy of reunifying families, and attracting more

skilled workers and managers to industries suffering from labor shortages.

That means two groups of people will get preference -- the relatives of

recently naturalized citizens, and workers with skills needed in the U.S.

President Bush's signature on the bill this month marked the first time

since 1965 that the nation has revised its laws affecting immigration and only
the third time that that the system has been overhauled.

In 1986, Congress altered laws affecting illegal immigration by granting

amnesty to 1.7 million undocumented aliens. The 1965 law abolished the quota

system, which allowed a certain number of people to immigrate from each

country, and granted 95 percent of visas to immigrants with family already in
the United States. As a result, the policy admitted more people from countries
from which most immigrants had come recently -- particularly those in Asia and
Latin America-- and fewer from Europe.

DON'T TAKE AWAY JOBS

The loosening of restrictions and the increased emphasis on skilled

workers will benefit the U.S. economy. A report released by the U.S.

Department of Labor in November strongly debunks the long-held myth that

immigrants deprive American workers of jobs and drain the economy with public
assistance. The study found just the opposite: that immigrants tend to pay

more in taxes than they receive in welfare, and they supply labor for markets
already experiencing shortages.

Economists as diverse as Milton Friedman and John Kenneth Galbraith favor the
changes. The American economy faces a shortage of skilled labor, according to
the Hudson Institute of Indianapolis. This decade, the work force will grow at
its slowest rate in 60 years.

The move to grant more political ayslum requests to Guatemalans and

Salvdorans may also have economic benefits. Although an estimated 4 million

undocumented aliens are living in this country, those who will be granted work
permits will be able to pull their weight by paying taxes.

"The United States has a small straw but a big draw for people in other

countries," said Duke Austin, INS spokesman in Washington. "And then it

falls on the local and state governments to take care of them when they get

sick or need services. The federal government doesn't officially know they

exist if they are undocumented."

SOUTH FLORIDA HIT HARD

South Floridians have been seeking help for years, as waves of immigrants --
Cubans, Haitians, Salvadorans, Guatemalans-- have hit our shores. Local

activists testified in hearings during the past two years by the Commission

for the Study of International Migration. The commission-- headed by Diego

Asencio, a Palm Beach resident and former assistant secretary of state-- was

created by the 1986 immigration amnesty act to study the effects of legal and
illegal immigration.

The Department of Labor report on the economics of immigration was an

offshoot of the commission's work. Various local residents -- including Father
Frank O'Loughlin, director of the Migration and Refugee Service offices of the
Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach-- testified before the commission about

the subclass of illegal immigrants who tend to be exploited because they fear
disclosure of their status would result in expulsion.

"I cannot shake the memory of bodies washed ashore in Florida," Mr.

Asencio writes in one of the commission's reports. "I recall the tragedy of

those who suffocated in a boxcar in southern Texas. And I know our task will

require commitment, dedication and close cooperation . . . over a long period of
time."

The new immigration act added to the agreement to reconsider political

asylum requests for Guatemalans and Salvadorans indicates that the country is
resolving anew to be a place of equal opportunity and open arms.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Amy Driscoll is a reporter for The Palm Beach Post. She studied U.S.
immigration policy as a fellow in the Visiting Journalists Program at  Duke
University in October.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 1989 file photo Palm Beach County Guatemalans,such as Juana Tomas of Indiantown
with brother Alfredo, say they will be persecuted if forced to return to their
homeland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 15, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOUSEKEEPER FOR JEB BUSH DEPORTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


While presidential scion Jeb Bush was out jogging last week, Miami

immigration officials deported his maid to her native Honduras.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service used to send a deportation

letter ahead of their agents. But a new law allows the agents to apprehend

someone without any forewarning once all appeals fail, said Richard Smith,

director of the INS office in Miami.

The Immigration Act of 1990 was signed Nov. 29 by Jeb's father, President Bush.

The maid, Maria Magdalena Romero, had exhausted her appeals, Smith said

Monday.

Thursday, agents took Romero to the Honduran Consulate, obtained her

traveling papers and put her on a one-way flight home.

Jeb Bush and his wife, Columba, called Smith the next day.

"They were only concerned the lady got home safely," Smith said. "After

three years, she kind of came to be part of the family."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 3, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RULING MIGHT ASSIST GUATEMALANS SEEKING ASYLUM IN S. FLORIDA

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Thousands of Guatemalan Indians in South Florida have renewed hope of

receiving asylum because of a San Francisco court settlement that blocks the

deportation of 500,000 refugees from Guatemala and El Salvador while their

cases are being reconsidered.

U.S. District Judge Robert Peckham approved the settlement Thursday. In

December, the Bush administration and refugee groups agreed to resolve a suit
filed in 1985 that accused the government of using political considerations to
determine asylum claims.

EFFECTS IN SOUTH FLORIDA

South Florida immigration advocacy groups say the ruling will affect an

estimated 30,000 Guatemalans residing largely in South Florida and 20,000

Salvadorans scattered throughout the state. About 5,000 Guatemalans, mostly

Mayan Indians, reside in Indiantown.

"It's great," said Jonathan Fried, director of the American Friends

Service Committee Florida Undocumented Workers Program, which has helped

Guatemalans and Salvadorans file for asylum. "It's quite a vindication of

what we've been saying for years -- that the government has discriminated

against Guatemalans and Salvadorans in asylum proceedings."

Human rights groups have accused the armies of El Salvador and Guatemala

of murdering thousands of civilians.

Nevertheless, fewer than 2 percent of Guatemalans and 3 percent of

Salvadorans were granted asylum by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
since 1983, while the requests of those fleeing Sandinista-led Nicaragua, an

enemy of the Bush and Reagan administrations, were granted at far higher

rates, according to INS statistics.

Human rights groups charged that the INS was unfairly discriminating

against refugees whose governments have bad human rights records-- but good

relations with the United States.

INS officials could not be reached for comment.

ASYLUM NOT EASILY GRANTED

Since 1985, 200 Guatemalans have been granted asylum status nationwide,

compared with 13,716 Nicaraguans, INS figures show. In 1989, 5,092 of the

35,431 Nicaraguan petitions were granted, while only 102 of the 15,502

Guatemalan cases were approved, according to INS records.

Last year, the INS granted its first asylum case to a Guatemalan Kanjobal Indian
in South Florida, though more than 50 people a month died in political violence
in Guatemala.

One of the four plaintiffs in the San Francisco suit was Lake Worth

Guatemalan Jose Cruz Mendez, whose asylum request was turned down by the INS,
though he said he feared for his life if he returned to Guatemala. His case

was reopened after the San Francisco suit was filed, and authorities granted

him asylum in December.

Fried said Guatemalans have six months to apply for benefits under the

settlement from July through December. Salvadorans can apply for temporary

protected status from January to June, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 21, 1991 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

REFUGEES LOST AFTER LEAVING RAFT;
TWO CUBAN SURVIVORS SAY THEY WERE AT SEA 17 DAYS

BYLINE: By PAUL D. MARTIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 362 words


A Cuban man and woman found floating Tuesday on a makeshift raft 28 miles

northeast of the Fort Pierce Inlet have told immigration officials that two of
their companions were lost when they separated part of the raft and made for a
distant shoreline.

The two, who are recovering from sunburn and dehydration at the Krome

Detention Center near Miami, also said they were at sea for 17 days, five days
more than they reportedly told Coast Guard officials Tuesday.

Three people aboard the Mary B, a fishing vessel, spotted the two and

pulled them in from the raft, which they left adrift in rough seas. Under

escort from a Coast Guard boat, the fishermen brought the exhausted Cubans to
the Fort Pierce Coast Guard Station about 8 p.m.

"They were 17 days on the water," said Wayne Joy, acting deputy

district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "That may or
may not be accurate."

Officials have not released the names of the man and woman, who Joy said are not
married. He said the two would be allowed to stay under a federal law to accept
Cuban refugees.

The two Cubans told immigration officials they and four others left Cuba because
of poor living conditions, Joy said.

They told Coast Guard officers that their food and water didn't last

long.

"They had about three to four days' worth of food and water," Petty

Officer Larry Belanger said. "That is the average trip from the western end

of Cuba to Key West."

The group's raft, which was made of wood lashed to tractor-tire inner

tubes, had an outboard motor attached to it that was lost in a storm around

Feb. 10, Joy said.

Several days into the trip, the group spotted land, he said.

"Apparently they came within sight of Key West," Joy said. "Two took

an inner tube and tried to make it to shore, and they didn't see them

anymore."

Officials have received no reports of any other refugees making it

ashore, Joy said.

One of the remaining passengers died of exposure on the raft, Joy said.

Another was apparently lost at sea.

"They just have not been able to account for him," Joy said.

Belanger said heavy winds likely blew the raft away from the mainland and into
the Gulf Stream, which carried them unusually far to the north.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran LO.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 21, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN REFUGEES SPLIT RAFT UP, LOST COMPANIONS TO SEA

BYLINE: By PAUL D. MARTIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 331 words


A Cuban man and woman found floating Tuesday on a makeshift raft 28 miles

northeast of the Fort Pierce Inlet have told immigration officials that two of
their companions were lost when they separated part of the raft and made for a
distant shoreline.

The two, who are recovering from sunburn and dehydration at the Krome

Detention Center near Miami, also said they were at sea for 17 days, five days
more than they reportedly told Coast Guard officials Tuesday.

Three people aboard the Mary B, a fishing vessel, spotted the two and

pulled them in from the raft, which they left adrift in rough seas. Under

escort from a Coast Guard boat, the fishermen brought the exhausted Cubans to
the Fort Pierce Coast Guard Station about 8 p.m.

"They were 17 days on the water," said Wayne Joy, acting deputy

district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Officials have not released the names of the man and woman, who Joy said are not
married. He said the two would be allowed to stay under a federal law to accept
Cuban refugees.

The two Cubans told immigration officials they and four others left Cuba because
of poor living conditions, Joy said.

They told Coast Guard officers that their food and water didn't last

long.

"They had about three to four days' worth of food and water," Petty

Officer Larry Belanger said. "That is the average trip from the western end

of Cuba to Key West."

The group's raft, which was made of wood lashed to tractor-tire inner

tubes, had an outboard motor attached to it that was lost in a storm around

Feb. 10, Joy said.

Several days into the trip, the group spotted land, he said.

"Apparently they came within sight of Key West," Joy said. "Two took

an inner tube and tried to make it to shore, and they didn't see them

anymore."

Officials have received no reports of any other refugees making it

ashore.

One of the remaining passengers died of exposure on the raft, Joy said.

Another was apparently lost at sea.

"They just have not been able to account for him," Joy said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 23, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOR `PGA PASTOR,' ACTIVISM IS JUST PAR FOR THE COURSE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 632 words


Although the Rev. Frank O'Loughlin is sometimes jokingly referred to as

"the pastor of the PGA," the Catholic priest doesn't spend a lot of time

on the golf courses in his parish.

When he does visit the fairways, he is often greeted in Spanish from the

Central American groundskeepers who recognize "Padre Frank" from his years

of working in the migrant camps of Indiantown. In 1990, Father Frank, as he is
known, celebrated his 25th year in the priesthood.

After his second heart attack, in 1986, Father Frank moved to the more

sedate and comfortable St. Ignatius Loyola Cathedral in Palm Beach Gardens,

home of PGA National.

His years of fighting for immigrant farmworkers reached a climax Wednesday when
the U.S. Supreme Court confirmed his protests that federal immigration

authorities were denying basic rights to applicants for immigration amnesty.

The Supreme Court case grew out of INS farmworker arrests in South Florida
alleging fraud on applications. Father Frank and others saw the prosecution as
an underhanded attempt by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to limit
the number of farmworkers granted amnesty. Wednesday's ruling was a

vindication of Father Frank's feud with the INS and lent credibility to his

activist ministry.

Not all parishioners at St. Ignatius are comfortable with Father Frank's

political activism. The church membership includes residents of affluent golf
course communities and workers at Pratt & Whitney, a major defense contractor.
Father Frank's homilies often address concerns about the homeless, AIDS

victims, innocents killed by war, and the poor who suffer in the land of

plenty.

Father Frank sometimes brings in busloads of farmworkers who celebrate

Mass at St. Ignatius alongside parishioners wearing sports jackets or tennis

sweats. Since the Persian Gulf conflict began in August, he has organized a

series of anti-war programs that brought criticism from some church members.

Father Frank sees part of his job as exposing members of his congregation to the
misery that exists in the world and exhorting them to do something

about it. He talks of the "numbness" that occurs when a society closes its

eyes and ears to human suffering.

"You do what you have to do to make a window in this numbness," Father

Frank said. He sees nothing wrong with involvement in political issues. He

speaks of God as the community of relationships, a concept that shares some

meaning with the definition of politics.

"A church that wasn't political would be ludicrous," he said, adding the

distinction that the church has no business in partisan party politics.

His migrant mission in Indiantown has not been left behind. Another priest
serves there, but Father Frank heads the Catholic diocese's Migration and

Refugee Services office in downtown West Palm Beach.

The force that drives Father Frank is more than political. He says it

comes from his experiences in Indiantown, where, he says, humans still

struggle for basic dignities. He talks of a Guatemalan woman he knows whose

tortillas fill the community's stomachs and whose example nourishes their

souls.

"She is an absolute tower of strength and vision in the community. She

has a bunch of daughters, every one of them by a different crew boss, and

she's fighting to keep her daughters from being exploited (as she was) by crew
bosses, knowing that she's going to lose because it's impossible to beat the

crew bosses. Yet she fights like a tiger for each daughter as if it was the

first and only time.

"It's not simply disaster. When you use the religious language about

spirit and grace and incarnation, there it is in this woman. It's all there in
this extraordinary, complete human being.

"It's the kind of religious experience that reduces you to tears and puts you on
your knees."

* Bill Douthat is political writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 5, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGH COURT MAY LET U.S. WITHHOLD HAITIAN DEPORTEES' NAMES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a Miami case involving Haitian immigrants denied refuge, the Supreme

Court on Monday agreed to consider letting the federal government withhold

material sought under the Freedom of Information Act.

The court said it will hear a Bush administration appeal aimed at

concealing the names of Haitians forced to return to their native land after

making their way to the United States.

The case stems from a bid by three other Haitians seeking asylum in the

United States to find out more about conditions their countrymen faced when

forced to return to Haiti in the mid-1980s.

The three had read newspaper articles quoting U.S. Immigration officials

saying the returnees were not persecuted back in their impoverished Caribbean
nation.

At that time, Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier was in power as Haiti's

ruler. He was toppled in a 1986 coup, and last month the Rev. Jean-Bertrand

Aristide was installed as Haiti's first democratically elected president.

The three Haitians seeking asylum went to federal court in 1986 in Miami

to block their deportation to Haiti.

They invoked the Freedom of Information Act to learn the names of Haitian
returnees who, according to U.S. immigration officials, reported no

persecution for returnees in Haiti.

The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last August upheld a ruling by a

federal judge who ordered the State Department to reveal the names of

returnees interviewed by U.S. officials.

The appeals court rejected government arguments that, under an FOIA

exemption, it is entitled to conceal the names to protect the privacy of the

returnees.

The appeals court said the privacy right is outweighed by the "great

public interest" in determining whether the Haitian returnees were

persecuted.

"The information sought here is imbued with a significant public interest
because it is a means for the public to see what its government is up to

regarding the relocation of Haitians and what it is telling the public on the
matter," the appeals court said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 30, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WEDNESDAY HEARING SET FOR MEMBERS OF ALLEGED GUN RING

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


Government prosecutors are expected to reveal more details about a

Brazilian gun-smuggling ring Wednesday when they argue that three alleged

members of the gang should be jailed until their trial.

Ubirajara Silva, 30, and Gilson Oliveira, 25, both of Deerfield Beach,

and Alexandre Parola, 21, of Pompano Beach appeared Monday before a U.S.

magistrate who scheduled a pretrial hearing.

The three are accused of being part of a smuggling operation that has

illegally shipped assault weapons to Brazil. The group has bought more than

400 weapons since 1989, says the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

More charges in the case are expected, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and

Firearms spokesman Bruce Snyder said Monday. Among those expected to be

charged are Oto Miranda, 32, and his wife, Rose Mary, 24, of Boca Raton, he

said.

The Mirandas are being held without bail at the Krome Detention Center on
charges of violating immigration law by operating a business while visiting

the country on tourist visas, said Eileen Convy, an assistant district

director with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 30, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

455 HAITIANS PACKED ON 3 BOATS RESCUED 70 MILES OFF MIAMI

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials Monday began interviewing 455 Haitian refugees-- the

second-largest group of Haitians intercepted by the Coast Guard-- after they

were rescued over three days from three jammed sailboats in the Florida

Straits.

The Haitians were spotted in roughly the same area, about 70 miles

southeast of Miami.

The Coast Guard reached the first 45-foot sailboat with 210 Haitians on

board while on patrol Saturday afternoon. A second 45-foot boat with 216

Haitians was intercepted Sunday afternoon. And a smaller sailboat with 29 on

board was rescued Monday afternoon.

Three of the Haitians suffered dehydration and were airlifted to Miami.

The remaining 452 were moved to the 270-foot cutter Tahoma, which was about 60
miles southeast of Miami Monday, as officials with the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service determined whether any qualified for political asylum.
"The Tahoma is extremely crowded, with most of the Haitians gathered on

deck," Lt. Cmdr. Jeff Karonis said. "There's not even enough room left to

land a helicopter, and it has a very large flight deck."

A group of 12 Cubans hitched a brief ride aboard the Tahoma as well, the Coast
Guard said.

The number of refugees crowded on one Coast Guard vessel was short of the record
of just over 500 set about two years ago, officials said.

Additional food, medical personnel and INS interviewers were being

ferried out to the Tahoma, the Coast Guard said.

Most Haitians stopped by the Coast Guard are returned to Haiti because

they are "economic refugees" fleeing impoverished conditions in their

homeland.

The three airlifted to Miami were taken to Krome Detention Center in

western Dade County after treatment.

Cubans, who have been fleeing their island in record numbers as the

Communist nation's economy crumbles, get almost automatic political asylum

under a special federal law.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 8, 1991 Wednesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

CUBANS RESCUED AT SEA WON'T BE DEPORTED

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 136 words


Two Cubans rescued last Thursday from the Atlantic Ocean off Boynton Beach

will stay in the United States and be released to relatives this week,

immigration authorities said Tuesda

Margarita Martinez, 24, and Rafael Garcia, 16, are being held in Miami's Krome
Avenue Detention Center. They have recovered from exposure and

dehydration suffered while drifting from Havana since April 16, said

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Mike Rozos.

They told police that five other Cubans died or disappeared during the

17-day journey in a 12-foot boat.

In what may be a related matter, the Palm Beach County Medical Examiner's Office
said a woman in her 40s or 50s whose decomposed body was found Saturday 9 miles
northeast of Jupiter Inlet had drowned. The body hasn't been

identified, said investigator Wayne Arbaczawski.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 17, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT OKS WELFARE FOR ASYLUM-SEEKER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A Nicaraguan who asked for political asylum after entering the country

illegally can get welfare because the government doesn't plan to deport her,

the Florida Supreme Court said Thursday.

Attorneys for Luisa Solis of Miami don't believe any other state's high

court has ruled on whether people who have applied for political asylum are

eligible for Aid to Families with Dependent Children.

"It's a very significant decision," Ira J. Kurzban, an attorney who

argued in support of Solis' case for the American Immigration Lawyers

Association, said from his Miami office Thursday. "It has a significant

effect not only in Florida but precedential value around the United States."

Valory Greenfield, who represented Solis, said the ruling will help people
survive.

"It will enable people who are languishing here . . . to have a means of
existing when they are not fully capable of supporting their families,"

Greenfield said.

Solis no longer needs welfare. She has recovered from the illness that

kept her from working and can now support her five children.

Solis and her children entered the United States illegally in June 1985. The day
after their arrival, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

gave them identification cards and work-authorization documents. Three months
later, Solis applied for asylum.

In February 1988, Solis applied for Medicaid, the joint state-federal

health program for the poor, and AFDC, the government's main welfare program.
The state Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services granted medical
payments but denied the welfare money. An administrative hearing officer

affirmed that decision but an appeals court reversed it and asked the state's
high court to rule.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS/Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 11, 1991 Tuesday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

U.S. CRACKS DOWN ON ALLEGED HAITIAN IMMIGRATION FRAUD

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials have begun a crackdown on what they call a new wave

of fraud: Haitians claiming they've had their U.S. immigration papers stolen

and thus need duplicate papers to return to the United States.

However, Haitian-rights advocates in Miami say the U.S. government has

once again devised a way to keep Haitians out of the country.

"It's just a simple matter of discrimination," said lawyer Cheryl Little

of the Haitian Refugee Center.

In the past four months, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

says, about 500 Haitians have told pretty much the same story: Thieves and

muggers have taken their green cards.

"That's a very high incidence of claimed loss of cards," says Dudley

Sipprelle, chief of the consular section of the U.S. Embassy in Haiti.

"It's gotten enormous, more than one would normally expect of a document

that has such importance to the individual involved."

Duke Austin, INS spokesman in Washington, said many cards are sold on the black
market.

"The problem is that people with valid immigration cards sell them to

others to use for entry into the U.S. and then try to get a new card issued to
them on the grounds that they lost their original," Austin said.

The U.S. embassy in Haiti accepts copies of immigration papers from the

INS as the only proof of legal identities. But most duplicate photographs and
fingerprints are stored in Dallas and are not easily accessible.

Besides, Sipprelle said, the embassy doesn't have the time or staff to

process all the claims.

"I'm not going to take officers away from their other duties and time and devote
it to fraud," he said.

But attorneys for Haitian refugees say this attitude is punishing innocent
victims of crime.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 13, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MACK QUESTIONS INS ON CUBAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida Republican Sen. Connie Mack says the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is mistakenly classifying Cuban refugees, and that mistake could cost
Florida $35 million; but the agency says it is merely following the law.

In a letter sent Wednesday to INS Commissioner Gene McNary, Mack

complained that Cuban refugees -- many of whom are being rescued at sea from

makeshift rafts -- are being designated as "parolees" rather than refugees

seeking asylum.

The difference is crucial, Mack said, because of a 1990 amendment to the

Immigration Reform and Control Act which earmarks $35 million to help states

meet emergency costs caused by a sharp influx of refugees. Under the amendment
sponsored by Mack and Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., the money becomes available

only when the number of asylum applications has increased by at least 1,000

from the previous quarter.

There have been 936 Cubans plucked out of the waters so far this year

compared to 467 in all of 1990, Mack said.

Although that rate is not great enough to trigger the release of the

emergency money, Mack aides said the number of Cuban refugees could increase in
the months ahead.

"People fleeing Cuba by raft should not be excluded from this count,"

Mack's letter said. "This provision is an important step to ensure that South
Florida receives its fair share of federal assistance in responding to the

crisis."

INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice said that the agency is following the

provisions of the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act which requires it to classify

Cuban refugees as "parolees" unless they seek asylum. Parolees are entitled

to less government assistance than those seeking asylum. After one year, they
are eligible for permanent resident status which could lead to citizenship.

"The decision to seek asylum must be made by the individual," Kice said.

"We can't compel them to seek asylum."

In addition to those arriving from boats and rafts, she said, are the

Cuban tourists who overstay their visas and decide to remain in the United

States. They too, under the 1966 law, are treated as parolees.

During the 12 months ending March 31, roughly one-third of the 37,477

Cubans who entered the United States on visas -- 13,512 people -- stayed after
their visas expired.

Gov. Lawton Chiles, Mack, Graham and members of Florida's congressional

delegation are scheduled to meet today with McNary and other administration

officials to discuss their concerns about Cuban immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG / MACK, CONNIE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 14, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWS LACKING CLEAR GOALS;
STATUTES DON'T SPECIFY NEEDS BY NUMBER, JOBS

BYLINE: San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 495 words


Near-record numbers of immigrants are rapidly changing the nation, but

critics and supporters agree that U.S. immigration laws have no clearly stated
purposes or goals and may lead to unexpected results.

Statutes are largely silent about even the most basic immigration effects,
including what kinds of workers the nation needs and how many people it wants.
"If you don't know where you're going, you can end up with unintended

consequences, like the very rapid population growth we're getting now from

immigration," says David Simcox, director of the Center for Immigration

Studies, an independent research organization.

RACISM CHARGES FEARED

Many analysts say Congress and the Bush administration have deliberately

avoided putting formal immigration goals in writing, fearing any stand on the
debate will draw charges of racism.

Dan Gonzales, an immigration expert at San Francisco State University,

likens the lack of a formal policy discussion to the debate over slavery when
the Constitution was framed.

"The subject is so volatile no politician wants to have any formal

position down in writing," he said.

This lack of policy has led to enormous changes -- and few are by design. In the
past decade alone, the arrival of at least 7 million legal

immigrants and more than 2 million illegal immigrants has altered major

industries, transformed hundreds of communities and shifted the political

balance in major U.S. cities. And a recent change in the law will permit even
more newcomers in the 1990s, most of whom will come from Asia and Latin

American nations if the patterns of the past decade continue.

IMMIGRANTS DECIDE

Immigration laws give priority to prospective immigrants with a family

member in the United States. So, instead of the government deciding what kind of
people cross the borders, critics say, the immigrants themselves decide who gets
in.

At least two-thirds of the legal immigrants in the 1980s entered under

"family reunification" provisions. Less than 10 percent of the visas

issued in the 1980s were specifically for people who had skills needed in the
U.S. labor market.

A new law this fall will boost "skills preferences" to 20 percent of all

visas, but family reunification still will account for about two-thirds of

entrants.

With the addition of the illegal immigrants, all of whom make their own

decision about coming here, the system is one "in which the immigrants and

their relatives in the U.S. are setting national policies," Graham said.

GOALS NOT DEFINED

Even supporters of the law believe that the nation needs more clearly

defined immigration policies and goals.

"Congress has come up with various immigration policies over time, and

you can sort of guess what their intentions have been, but these usually have
little connection to reality," says Bill Hing, an immigration law expert at

Stanford University.

"The truth is that there has been a very poor job done predicting the

impact of immigration both on the sending and on the receiving countries,"

Hing says.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 21, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT INVESTORS STAND READY TO BUY FULL U.S. RESIDENCY

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A century after Lady Liberty proclaimed, "Give me your tired, your poor,

your huddled masses," Uncle Sam is issuing a new call-- this time for the

world's millionaires.

Through a little-heralded provision in the Immigration Act of 1990, the

United States is offering well-heeled immigrants the chance to become

permanent residents for an investment of $1 million in a business creating at
least 10 jobs for Americans.

Up to 10,000 investor visas will be issued annually starting Oct. 1,

marking the first time in the country's history that wealth has become a

criterion for legal immigration.

With the start of the program, the United States will join a growing

number of countries-- from the tiny South Pacific kingdom of Tonga to Canada

-- that have jumped into the visa selling business and turned it into a

booming global enterprise.

The new law has been wildly cheered by developers, attorneys and

government officials who have inundated prospective immigrants with investment
options, from million-dollar hamburger stands to experimental bicycle patents.
Even the former commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service's Western Region, Harold Ezell, has begun selling car washes and

Wienerschnitzel hot dog franchises to the soon-to-be-arriving "yacht people"

of the world.

Ezell, a conservative Reagan appointee who made his name through hardline

efforts to curb illegal immigration and his sometimes outlandish stunts to get
illegal immigrants to apply for amnesty, started his business-immigration

consulting company, The Ezell Group, in 1981.

He began working full-time on his company after his retirement from the

INS in 1989 and has been ecstatic over the possibilities of the investor

immigrant program. He has held three seminars in Taiwan this year with

prospective investors and has planned others for Europe and other parts of

Asia.

"The possibilities are totally unlimited," said Ezell, whose company

stands to reap thousands of dollars in consulting and service fees for each

successful investor immigrant it helps. "This is really long overdue, and

there's tremendous interest in this."

But for some immigration experts, the law also has sounded an unsettling

alarm that the selling of U.S. residency is a sign of a small but potentially
significant shift in American immigration policy.

`WHAT'S IN IT FOR US'

Arthur Helton, an attorney with the New York-based Lawyers Committee for

Human Rights, said that although the investor immigrant law provides only a

tiny number of visas, its adoption marked the emergence of a new ethos of

immigration that calls not for the tired, the poor or the huddled masses, but
rather, the rich, the skilled and the elite.

" `What's in it for the United States?' That's the question people are

asking," Helton said. "Clearly, we're making a move in that direction."

For all the flurry of activity over the investor immigrants, only a few of the
world's wealthy have submitted preliminary applications-- just 72 so far. Many
have come from developed Asian and European countries, such as Taiwan

(the leader at 9), England (5), Japan (4), Hong Kong (2) and Spain (2).

But there also has been a smattering of applications from impoverished and
strife-torn nations, including Somalia (1), Bangladesh (1), Iran (1) and even
China, where seven applicants somehow managed to strike it rich under

Communist rule.

Eugene Chow, a Hong Kong attorney who writes a column on immigration for

the colony's Dong Fang Daily News, said most investors are holding back until
the release of final regulations, detailing the types of acceptable

investments.

The 1990 Immigration Act contains only a basic outline of the investor

program-- a minimum $1 million investment in a business employing at least 10
workers. In rural or high unemployment areas, the investment could be as

little as $500,000, although tentative regulations have raised the amount back
to $1 million.

The INS has been put in charge of reviewing the proposed investments,

which must have been made after Nov. 29, 1990, or was in the process of being
made.

If the agency verifies the investments, the would-be immigrants and their
families would be allowed to enter the country on conditional visas. They

would qualify for permanent residency after two years.

STIFF GLOBAL COMPETITION

Supporters estimated that even with only 10,000 visas a year, the program could
bring in more than $8 billion in new investment and 100,000 new jobs

each year.

One of the biggest obstacles for the investor program is the stiff global
competition for the world's rich.

Australia, Canada and New Zealand have reaped billions of dollars from

Hong Kong residents desperate to leave before the colony reverts to Communist
rule in 1997. The visas have been granted for investments of as little as a

few hundred thousand dollars.

New Caledonia and Fiji have been wooing foreign investors with $77,000

visas. For the budget-minded, there's always the island of Tonga, which has

visas selling for just $17,500.

The U.S. investor visa is by far the most expensive of the lot, although

it is still, for many, the most valued-- the "Rolls-Royce of jurisdictions,"

Chow said.

Frederick Hong, a Los Angeles immigration attorney, predicted that the

number of applicants will climb as the program gets under way and investors

begin to sort out the deluge of offers. "The trickle will become a stream and
then a flood within the first year," Hong said. "In a year or two, there

will be big numbers."

Since 1965, legal immigration has been dominated by a policy called family
reunification, which gives top priority to the relatives of those who already
are permanent residents or citizens.

The policy has been applauded for its humanitarian approach to

immigration, but also has been criticized by opponents who say it has burdened
the country with an inordinate number of immigrants from developing countries,
primarily in Latin America and Asia.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 25, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE WON'T BLOCK HAITIANS' DEPORTATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A judge refused Wednesday to block the deportation of four Haitians who

were caged or chained to the deck of a freighter but said he was confident an
appeals court would consider the issue quickly.

U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp issued a restraining order Monday to

keep the men in the United States through Wednesday, but ruled they were

stowaways and not entitled to full deportation hearings.

With minutes to go before the order expired, Ryskamp refused to issue a

stay for the Haitians but said he understood the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of

Appeals in Atlanta would consider the case on an emergency basis.

The judge noted he had received assurances from Assistant U.S. Attorney

Dexter Lee that immigration officials would take no action against the men

until the Atlanta court acts.

The men claimed they had paid the first mate of the Arawaq-Sun II for the trip
to Miami.

Once in port, they were taken into custody as stowaways.

Attorneys for the Haitian men charged the Immigration and Naturalization

Service in effect permitted the mistreatment by turning the men over to the

freighter's crew for the trip back to Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 27, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN LEADER WON'T URGE CHANGE IN U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haiti's first democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide,

said Thursday that his country will work to strengthen its fledgling

democratic institutions before requesting any changes in U.S. immigration

policy toward Haitian refugees.

Haitian advocacy groups are critical of the U.S. practice of returning

most Haitians found at sea to their homeland under a decade-old interdiction

treaty, while Cuban refugees are routinely granted political asylum.

"If we want to see a change here we have to start in my country to see a

change. Change must start there," Aristide said at the Miami International

Airport Hotel after his arrival in Miami. "That way, when we ask for a change
here, it will be stronger."

Aristide said change is coming to Haiti, however slowly.

"We are going slowly, according to the constitution. We will win, but

step by step." he said.

The Catholic priest, 38, was swept to power with 70 percent of the vote in
Haiti's Dec. 16 elections after years as a fiery opposition leader who

criticized social injustice and U.S. support for the 29-year Duvalier

dictatorship. His demeanor Thursday was highly diplomatic, though no less

forceful.

Aristide said his relationship with the United States, whose officials

once criticized him as a leftist, is built on mutual respect.

Aristide called for foreign investors to help social progress in Haiti by
opening business ventures, saying the new climate of stability would guarantee
their investments.

At a rally at the Miami Arena, he was greeted by hundreds of people, many waving
Haitian flags.

Earlier in New York, Aristide was the first Haitian president to address

the United Nations. He said his talks with diplomats marked the end of Haiti's
dark past.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 17, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA DELEGATION URGED TO PUSH ARISTIDE'S RETURN

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group from Dade and Duval counties Wednesday urged the Florida

congressional delegation to spearhead efforts to restore deposed Haitian

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide while aiding Haitians coming to South

Florida.

Lawmakers said several steps urged by the group, such as imposing an

economic embargo against Haiti and calling for restoration of the Aristide

government, already had been taken by Congress and the Bush administration.

But the lawmakers were divided over the group's suggestion that the U.S. stop
interdicting boatloads of Haitian refugees and conducting preliminary hearings
aboard ship.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., said immigration law should not be changed, "but the
facts have changed." He said the Sept. 30 coup and reports of widespread

violence in Haiti should give refugees more reason to be granted asylum. He

defended the practice of interviewing refugees aboard ship.

Rep. Harry Johnston, a Democrat from West Palm Beach, said such practices are
"inhumane. I think we should have a temporary stay on returning them."

Rep. Larry Smith, a Democrat from Hollywood, said he would circulate a

letter among lawmakers urging the Immigration and Naturalization Service to

suspend the interdiction policy and urging the Justice Department to grant

temporary protective status to Haitians living illegally in the United States to
prevent their deportation.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw, a Republican from Fort Lauderdale, warned that a

virtual open-door policy could spark a mass migration of Haitians.

The group of state legislators, county commissioners and other local

officials-- led by Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez and state Rep. Willie Logan, D-

Miami-- also called for a multi-nation peacekeeping force to be sent to

Haiti if Aristide returns to office and an independent congressional inquiry

into conditions at the Krome Avenue detention facility in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 24, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION OF HAITIANS SUSPENDED;
IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS CAUTIOUS AFTER COUP

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Local immigration officials have temporarily suspended deportations of

Haitians as a result of the bloody ouster of Haiti's government, but no

announcement has been made in Washington of a change in policy.

"We are not forcibly removing them in any way," said Carol Chasse, an

assistant district director for the immigration service in Miami.

She said the new procedures affect about 12 Haitians who have entered

without visas at the airport and 49 who arrived earlier this week in a boat at
Islamorada.

Immigration officials in Washington, however, denied that deportations

have been halted.

"There is no blanket suspension of deportation," said Duke Austin, a

spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "But

we will be circumspect and cautious about returning anyone at this time."

The same applies to the policy of stopping U.S.-bound Haitians at sea and
sending them home, Austin said.

No Haitians have been spotted at sea since the coup that threw out the

government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. But 49 Haitians arrived

earlier in South Florida aboard a rickety wooden sailboat.

No Haitians have been sent back since the Sept. 30 coup except those who

agreed to return, Chasse said.

Those who elect to stay are not given temporary work permits or any other
benefits, she said.

Refugee advocates say the government's decision not to declare an official
temporary halt to deportations means Haitians await an uncertain fate in the

United States.

"Our concern with the present posture is that by failing to articulate a

policy, the government is operating under a secret policy," said Peter A.

Schey, executive director of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional

Law in Los Angeles. "That policy could be changed overnight with virtually no
recourse by those affected."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SEVEN DEATHS IN SOUTH BAY MAY LEAD TO PHOTO IDS;
IMMIGRANT FARMWORKERS OFTEN TRADE WORK PERMITS

BYLINE: By ANA VECIANA-SUAREZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1171 words


Prompted by the drowning deaths of seven Guatemalan farmworkers, some of

whom were carrying work permits of other men, the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service may "strongly suggest" that a state agency start

putting photographs on worker identification cards.

Job Service of Florida, the employment and training division of the

Department of Labor and Employment Security, now issues two types of cards to
workers. Neither comes with a photograph. That's been the practice since the

Immigration Reform and Control Act went into effect in 1987.

INS recommends-- but does not require-- photo IDs. Without photographs,

the cards are easier for agricultural workers to trade among themselves.

"All we can do is suggest and recommend they use photo identification,"

said Eileen Convy, assistant district director of investigations at INS in

Miami. "Maybe we need to take a closer look at the issue."

A spokeswoman for the state Department of Labor said Job Service has been asked
by INS only to validate and examine documents for authenticity since the federal
immigration law was passed to stem the flood of illegal workers.

"We certainly will consider anything that will avoid a situation of

trading papers," spokeswoman Renee Watters said. "But I know that

photographs might be very costly."

Three of the seven Guatemalans who died Oct. 18 when their 1978 station wagon
flipped into a sugar-cane farm irrigation ditch carried work cards

issued to other men. Those cards, without photographs, had been provided by

Job Service of Florida in Belle Glade. One of the dead included a 15-year-old
who did not have the proper work authorization papers.

Officials at Okeelanta Corp. said crew leader Araceli Rivera had checked

the men's work cards provided by Job Service against photo IDs provided by the
men before they started work on Oct. 15. Okeelanta officials, however, had not
been able to determine when the work cards had been traded.

"We've talked to the crew leader about the procedure, and she has told us that
she checks photo identification until she gets to know the workers,"

said Joe Klock, attorney for Okeelanta. "So we don't know if this was the

first time these workers had traded papers."

Switching work authorization papers is common among agricultural workers

desperate to find jobs in tough economic times and amid strict federal rules

against hiring people from another country who don't have the proper

documents, lawyers and farmworkers say.

"It's extremely easy to trade papers," said Greg Schell, Florida Rural

Legal Services attorney. "It happens fairly often. These people are desperate to
find work, and growers hire illegals because they will work for very low

wages."

Immigration law requires employers to keep on file an Employment

Eligibility Verification form -- commonly known as an I-9-- for all its

workers. An I-9 lists the name, birth date, address and Social Security number
of the employee. The immigration law also requires the employer to verify the
identity of the prospective employee by examining some type of government-

issued photo identification-- driver license, resident alien card or a

passport, for example. The law requires all workers to have papers proving

they are entitled to work in this country.

Because agricultural workers often work for several employers, the law

allows a third party to serve as a clearinghouse by processing the I-9s and

verifying for the companies that the workers had the correct documentation.

Job Service of Florida is one of those third parties.

AN EASY SWITCH

Here's how the hiring works:

Growers submit a work order to Job Service asking for a specified number

of workers to do a particular job. As an employment and training agency, Job

Service, in turn, finds these workers, checks their work authorization from

INS and gives them identification cards.

After hiring the workers, the company has 21 days to write to Job Service and
ask for certification that the workers are allowed to work. Maria Fong,

manager of Job Service of Florida in Belle Glade, said Okeelanta mailed the

letter asking for certification on Oct. 18, the same day the workers died and
well within the 21-day limit.

"There is a possibility that somewhere along the line, after they leave

here, someone traded papers," Fong said. "We really have no way to determine

that."

Job Service in Belle Glade processed I-9 forms for Francisco Agustin

Corince, Domingo Ortiz Mejia and Cruz Hernandez Alvarez, who died in the Oct. 18
accident. They also processed the work authorization form for the lone

survivor, Gaspar Mendoza. These four men appear on the Okeelanta payroll.

The other three men who died -- Pablo Mendoza Ortiz, Diego Mendoza Ailon

and Pascual Vicente Mendez-- were not processed by Job Service and do not

appear on the Okeelanta payroll. They were carrying authorization papers from
Job Service for three others -- Moises Mendez, Roberto Simon and Francisco

Mendez. Those three men could not be located last week.

The 15-year-old who was killed, Julio Mendoza Corince, does not appear on
Okeelanta's payroll either. His I-9 application was not processed by Job

Service because officials there feared he would work in the fields during

school hours, which would be a violation of federal and state child labor

laws.

"The young man had his INS papers in order, but we chose not to complete

the I-9 form because of his age," Fong said.

The legality of the Guatemalans' work status will not affect the workers'
compensation claims filed by West Palm Beach lawyer Gerald Rosenthal. Family

members of the dead workers could be eligible for up to $100,000 each in

benefits. Officials at Okeelanta have said they would not contest the claims,
which will be decided by a state analyst.

Yet, the company may face legal action in civil court. Jack Scarola, a

personal injury attorney hired by relatives of the dead Guatemalans, said he

is preparing a wrongful death claim against the sugar mill company.

"More than the money, we want to focus attention on the conditions that

led to this tragedy," Scarola said. The accident happened on a paved,

straight, 3-mile private road between U.S. 27 and the Okeelanta sugar mill.

Klock dismissed the potential lawsuit as "frivolous, incorrect and

useless."

"There is nothing dangerous about the road. The trooper determined it was
clearly the driver's fault, a driver who was unlicensed and had no

experience," Klock said.

A preliminary investigation by the Florida Highway Patrol has determined

driver inexperience caused the accident. Driver Cruz Hernandez Alvarez, 19,

had no license. FHP investigators say he was driving close to the white middle
line when a bus carrying cane cutters came toward him in the opposite lane. He
swerved to the right to get back into his lane and apparently turned too far,
wheels slipping off the road.

He overcompensated by turning to the left. The car spun around and flipped into
the canal. The tires on the 1978 Chevrolet Caprice Classic were in

"average shape" and everything else seemed to be in working order, the

highway patrol said. No one was wearing a seat belt.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 27, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GETTING THROUGH THE DOOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 610 words


The United States has little control over who's coming into the country.

Immigration policy restricts immigrants to 700,000 a year, but an equal number
sneak across the borders or come in as refugees. Here's how people get in:

FAMILY

Each year, 465,000 visas are available for spouses and children of U.S.

citizens or permanent residents.

AMNESTY

Up to 55,000 visas are available each year for spouses and minor children of
immigrants legalized under the amnesty and farmworker programs offered from 1987
to 1989.

PRIORITY

Visas are available for 80,000 professionals, researchers, business

executives and others considered to have outstanding abilities.

SKILLS

For workers with two years of training or experience, 40,000 visas are

available each year. Unskilled workers in certain jobs can qualify for up to

10,000 of those visas.

SPECIAL

Up to 10,000 visas a year are available for special workers, but not more than
5,000 of them can be used for religious workers.

INVESTORS

Those who invest $1 million in a business creating at least 10 jobs for

Americans are offered up to 10,000 visas a year. The investor and his family

can become permanent residents after two years.

LOTTERY

Earlier this month, a lottery was arranged to offer 40,000 visas to

immigrants from 34 countries (mostly European) who have had low immigration

rates recently. Of those, 16,000 are reserved for the Irish.

ASYLUM

For those who can show a reasonable fear that they would be persecuted if they
returned to their native country on account of race, religion,

nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.

There is no limit on the number granted asylum. They can apply for permanent

residency after one year. There are about 140,000 applications awaiting a

ruling.

REFUGEE

Refugee status is granted by presidential order and is limited to 131,000
immigrants a year. In 1990, 135,251 applications were filed and about 104,000
were granted.

CUBANS

Cubans have no more right to enter the United States without a visa than

any other nationality. But they cannot be deported because there is no

official way to send them back. A 1966 U.S. law allows Cubans to apply for

permanent residency after one year. In 1990, 9,436 Cubans immigrated, 4,386

applied as refugees and 3,925 applied for asylum.

NICARAGUANS

Nicaraguans granted asylum before November 1990 can remain in the United

States and apply for permanent residency regardless of changing political

conditions in their country.

PROTECTED

Temporary Protected Status offers work authorization for six- to 18-month
periods for immigrants who cannot return home because of war or natural

disasters. In 1990, temporary protected status was granted to Salvadorans.

ILLEGALS

Immigrants who do not qualify for any form of work authorization can

remain in the country through the use of fraudulent or fraudulently obtained

documents. An estimated 6 million of them are doing so now.

GLOSSARY

Alien: Any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States.

Asylum: Is granted to an alien in the United States, or at a port of entry such
as Miami, who is unable or unwilling to return to his or her own country because
of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution. Persecution can be based
on race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social

group or political opinion.

Immigrant: An alien admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent

resident.

Refugee: Any person outside his or her own country who is unable or

unwilling to return to that country because of persecution or a well-founded

fear of persecution. Again, persecution can be based on race, religion,

nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  GUARDING THE DOOR: A FAILING IMMIGRATION POLICY. Second of a series. Ran
all editions. Info box at end of story.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE FROM BOCA ANGERS ATTORNEYS

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1004 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


The lone Palm Beach County resident on the immigration bench is a Boca

Raton man who received $20,000 more than the entry-level salary of his co-

workers when he was hired last year.

Court officials said the $76,982 price tag for Philip J. Montante Jr. was a
symbol.

Critics had complained that immigration judges, who are mostly ex-

employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, seemed biased

because they spent careers trying to deport the same people whose cases they

now consider. To lure private lawyers without that INS influence would take

big bucks, the nation's chief immigration judges rationalized.

Montante, 46, had been a successful lawyer for more than 19 years when he
applied for the position in 1989. He also had the right recommendations

-- including one from his cousin, an administrative judge for the Federal

Communications Commission who submitted Montante's resume months before

Montante applied.

Guessing that Montante would turn up his nose at a substantial pay cut,

Assistant Chief Immigration Judge John Milo Bryant wrote in a memo to his

office's personnel department that the government would have to hire the

lawyer at his present income.

It did in April 1990. Nine months later, the court gave Montante a raise, to
$80,138.

LAWYERS FILE COMPLAINTS

But his impartial background has not protected him from critics.

While some lawyers applaud Montante for his professionalism and fairness, at
least three have filed complaints against him. They claim he has badgered

immigrants like a prosecutor and personally attacked their attorneys.

Because immigration judges are federal hearing officers, they do not have to
answer to a judicial qualifications committee or abide by any code of

judicial conduct.

The complaints against Montante were considered by his boss, Chief

Immigration Judge William R. Robie, who sits in Virginia. Robie ruled Oct. 11
that the misconduct charges were unsubstantiated. He would not permit Montante
to be interviewed or photographed for this story.

The lawyers are considering filing a suit or lodging a complaint with the
Department of Justice's Office of Professional Responsibility.

Montante's attorney, Sanford Bohrer, however, says the charges are the

result of one lawyer's vendetta-- Ira Kurzban, one of the top immigration

attorneys in the country.

REPRIMAND, SLANDER SUIT

The men have definitely taken a dislike to each other, according to

transcribed conversations, letters and even a federal lawsuit.

Three months after becoming a judge, Montante wrote a letter informally

reprimanding and threatening to file a bar complaint against Kurzban.

Montante said the lawyer, who has argued three immigration cases before

the U.S. Supreme Court, had been unprepared for court, used frivolous and

delaying trial tactics, made misleading statements and showed disrespect

toward the court. He complained that Kurzban laughed out loud at his ruling

and then accused the judge of being prejudiced against him.

Kurzban responded in January with a slander suit against the judge,

claiming Montante had told two other lawyers that Kurzban was unprofessional

and unethical. The federal suit is still unresolved.

Montante has refused to grant Kurzban's requests to recuse himself from

the lawyer's cases. One case has been appealed to the Board of Immigration

Appeals on the grounds that Montante should have disqualified himself after

mailing the reprimand.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association has joined in the case,

claiming Montante's impartiality should be reasonably questioned because of

the letter.

Kurzban did not want to comment on the Montante matter. But Robert E.

Juceam, a New York lawyer he is consulting, pointed to two other lawyers'

complaints as proof that the battle is more than a personal feud.

DEPORTATION OVERTURNED

Both of those lawyers refused to discuss the case, but their sworn

statements show similar problems.

Immigration lawyer Bennett D. Fultz complained July 13, 1990, that

Montante became incensed because Fultz refused to admit that his client had

been convicted of trafficking cocaine. Fultz argued that it was the INS

attorney's job to prove that. Montante did not agree.

Fultz said Montante berated him for accidentally touching the microphone

and slouching in his chair, then threatened to report the lawyer to the bar

for defying the judge by refusing to admit his client's guilt.

"I personally believe that Mr. Montante is wholly unfit to serve as an

immigration judge because he conducts hearings in an arbitrary and abusive

manner, with a disregard for law and established procedures," Fultz wrote.

Another lawyer, Edgardo Caturla, in a complaint filed this year, claimed

Montante granted an INS attorney's private request for a hearing without

notifying the lawyer or his immigrant client. At the hearing, Montante ordered
that the Jamaican woman be deported, even though she was not present to defend
herself.

The Immigration Board of Appeals recently reversed Montante's decision and
ordered a new hearing.

Juceam said he fears the problems between Montante and the lawyers could

spill over to hurt the immigrants unwittingly stuck between them. But

Montante's attorney calls the judge a traditional legal man who only wants to
have dignity in his courtroom.

"Montante is just stunned that anyone would accuse him of being

unethical," Bohrer said. "He is nowhere even near that line like most

people."

PHILIP J. MONTANTE JR.

* Background: Age: 46. Divorced father of two. Lives in Boca Raton

townhouse bought in 1983 for $132,300.

* Education: Bachelor's degree from Fort Lauderdale College. Master's in

education from Florida Atlantic University. Law degree from Samford

University, Birmingham, Ala.

* Experience: Broward County assistant state attorney, 1971-75. Chief

judge, municipal court of Margate, 1976-77. Private practice, Pompano Beach,

1975-90. Immigration judge, 1990-present.

* Activities: In private practice, acted as prosecutor for five Broward

cities. Chairman, Professional Ethics Commission, Broward County Bar

Association 1975-77. Member of Florida Bar Ethics Committee, 1976-78.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / Series / Information
box at end of text

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE ASYLUM PROCESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 97 words


1. A person intercepted on a boat or plane automatically appears before a

judge and can make an asylum request. If an illegal immigrant is caught in the
country, he or she can file a claim with the Immigration and Naturalization

Service. If denied, as happened in 82 percent of the cases in 1989, an order

to appear in immigration court is sent to the immigrant.

2. If the request is denied by the immigration judge, an immigrant can appeal
the decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals, a five-member panel in Falls
Church, Va.

3. A decision by the board can be appealed in federal court.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / Series

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer WAITING AT KROME: Immigrants caught trying to
enter the United States without a visa are held at the Krome Detention Center
near Miami until they are deported or are granted temporary permission to stay
while they make a claim to remain in the country. Two of the nine immigration
judges in Miami conduct asylum hearings at Krome.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MOST LAWYERS STAY BEHIND THE SCENES

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 657 words


Most modern immigrants, at some point, will invest their money and hopes in
someone they believe will steer them out of the bewildering, seemingly endless
maze of immigration law.

Their guides are the notaries, counselors and lawyers whose knowledge of

the system can create or extinguish a new life in America.

The profession is both lucrative and checkbook-breaking for the

approximately 200 South Florida lawyers who specialize in immigration law.

Their offices tell you the most about their caseloads: Thrift-store

furnishings for those who have helped one too many penniless immigrants.

Leather coaches and ocean views for the ones with moneyed foreign-born

clients.

With many of the immigrants living here illegally, few complaints are

filed against any of the professionals who may take advantage of the confusing
system.

"People don't know whether they're being ill-advised," said Juan Gomez,

one of two American Friends Service Committee lawyers who provide the poor

with free legal assistance.

"Some might demand their money back when they realize they've been taken

in, but most don't say anything," Gomez said. "Why call the police on

someone when you know they'd rather take you away?"

NO DEGREE NEEDED

A law degree is unnecessary to practice in immigration court. People who

work for nonprofit organizations can appear before a judge as long as they've
been designated "accredited representatives" by the Board of Immigration

Appeals, the Virginia-based panel of judges that handles appeals. Law students
and graduates not yet admitted to the bar may also appear.

Many of the notaries and counselors who serve immigrants never make it to a
courtroom. They operate out of storefronts and homes, filling out English

applications for up to $100 each and offering advice at a price. Their

advantage is that they usually speak the language of a Hispanic or Haitian

immigrant. Their danger is that they are not always right.

Some refugees who want to apply for asylum don't realize that notaries are not
lawyers. In Latin American countries, notario means someone with a law

degree. Since they don't speak English, many have no idea what their forms say
before they are mailed to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

An incorrect or misleading asylum application can seriously weaken a case. Some
judges take even minor discrepancies between statements on the forms and
immigrants' testimony as evidence that they are not credible.

Says immigration attorney Michael Ray, "If it says a woman has eight

children and she tells the judge she has nine, they think she's a liar and

don't believe other things she tells them."

The majority of immigration lawyers are seldom seen in courtrooms. They

work behind the scenes, applying for visas for the fortunate-- those with

special work skills, relatives who are residents or money to invest.

Only about 50 lawyers are regulars in Miami's immigration court. Another

20 are the INS attorneys who oppose them. The docket is devoted mostly to

political asylum claims.

20% APPROVAL

Most of the immigrants are poor. And most of them lose.

An average of 20 percent of the asylum cases that judges ruled on across

the country last year were granted, according to INS statistics.

Wayne Levine, an immigration lawyer in Lantana, says he discourages

clients from seeking asylum, unless "somebody is going to be standing there

with a gun ready to shoot you when you get off the plane."

A lawyer for an asylum case costs an average of $1,000. Relatives often

scrape together the cash. For loners without money, a handful of Miami-based

organizations and freelancers might take up the cause.

With losses resulting in deportations to an unknown fate, the asylum law

profession can quickly become discouraging.

"I think of quitting every single day," said Lynn Ventura, an

immigration lawyer who graduated last year from the University of Miami Law

School. "There's a lot of disappointment. You become a lawyer thinking there

is justice. There is none."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / Ran all editions /
Information box does not appear in database; see microfilm / Series

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer A TROUBLING SYSTEM: Juan Gomez, one of two
American Friends Service Committee lawyers who provide the poor with free legal
assistance, worries about people taking advantage of immigrants in the confusing
asylum process. `People don't know whether they're being ill-advised.'

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHO STAYS, WHO GOES?

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2181 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


You can spot them easily in the crowds outside the immigration building in

Miami. Seven men with ties and briefcases bee-lining through the Third World

throngs.

Guatemalan women with babies strapped to their backs, Haitian men

exchanging rapid-fire Creole, Nicaraguan families primping daughters in

Communion-white dresses: They all seek the approving eye of the men in suits.
The judges who can change their lives.

Inside the 11-story building's tiny courtrooms, men and women desperate to avoid
deportation calmly recite details of tortures back home. The political

asylum-seekers claim inevitable persecution if returned to their countries.

The judges' job is to decide whether these people truly came to escape pain

-- or if they merely fled poverty.

If it's pain, the people stay. If it's poverty, they go.

Most of those who appear in court are guilty only of slipping through the United
States' back door. Because they came without permission, they have few of the
constitutional rights that protect Americans. They carry the burden of proof.
They have no right to a lawyer. Their court hearings are conducted in

English, with little translated into a language they understand.

They are people who sought sanctuary in Belle Glade, Indiantown, Fort

Pierce, West Palm Beach and countless other cities throughout South Florida.

But their chances of staying rest with the men in Miami.

* A two-month review of Miami's immigration court, including transcripts as well
as interviews with lawyers and those seeking asylum, reveals that those

chances are taken in an arbitrary and unchecked system, where:

* Decisions are often swayed by politics, not the law.

Before ruling, judges consider State Department briefings on political

conditions in the immigrant's country. Although the briefings are supposed to be
only advisory, attorneys claim they influence the judges, who are not

members of the federal judiciary, but employees within the Department of

Justice.

As a result, an immigrant's chances for asylum can shift when a coup or

election creates new enemies and friends for the United States. For example,

in 1989, 36.5 percent of Nicaraguan applicants won their U.S. asylum cases.

But in 1991, with the Sandinista government no longer in power, only 12.9

percent have been granted, even though Sandinistas still control the military. *
Judges often aggressively take over questioning, coach prosecutors and

appear skeptical of the immigrant's story.

Court officials defend the tactics, saying federal regulations allow

judges to ask questions.

In July 1990, Judge Philip J. Montante Jr. questioned a Haitian immigrant for
more than an hour about his asylum request. The judge's questions took up 28
pages of a transcript of the hearing. The prosecutor's questions filled 17
pages. The Haitian, Jean-Jean Charlemagne, later signed a sworn statement that
the judge "asked me the same questions again and again, then scolded me when

I didn't give the answer he wanted."

When an INS trial attorney could not explain why he objected to a question asked
by Charlemagne's attorney, the judge prompted him: "Is it leading and

suggestive, is that what you're saying?"

* An exaggerated burden of proof falls upon the immigrant, who usually

only has his or her own words to back up the case. The law instructs judges to
decide whether there is a "reasonable possibility" the person would be

persecuted back home on the basis of race, religion, nationality, political

opinion or membership in a social group.

In reality, judges often look for proof in newspaper accounts of turmoil

or repression in other countries and disbelieve applicants who can't produce

it. They have ignored the plight of similarly situated victims and family

members as proof that the immigrant may face the same fate.

Two years ago, a judge denied a Haitian woman asylum despite testimony

that men in uniforms burst into her home, killed her husband and kicked her in
the stomach, causing her to lose the baby she was carrying. "But I still

don't understand, even with all that, why did you feel you had to leave your

country?" Judge Keith C. Williams asked before ordering her deported,

according to transcripts.

* Judges often impose their own cultural and political assumptions in

assessing the credibility of immigrants.

When a Haitian man testified in 1989 that he was afraid to return to

Haiti, he told Immigration Judge Neale S. Foster that officials were looking

for him because he participated in a political street protest. He did not

explain that it would have been suicide to apply for a march permit from

officials who don't tolerate dissent.

Foster ruled that the man had engaged in "illegal marches" without a

permit, court documents show. The judge further speculated that police

officers were probably seeking the man for marching without a permit. The

judge ordered him deported.

Lawyers from the Haitian Refugee Center, based in Miami, eventually won an
appeal for the protester, Elizaire Olbert, 22. As in other appeal cases, he is
allowed to stay in the country while waiting for a ruling.

FEW RECORDS OF DECISIONS

The Board of Immigration Appeals, a five-member panel in Virginia, hears

appeals on immigration court decisions. Dubbed "the board of affirmation" by

some immigration attorneys, the board usually supports the judges' rulings.

Even more frustrating to attorneys is the fact that although the board

issues thousands of decisions each year, it publishes only a miniscule

fraction. There are now 19 volumes of board decisions, dating back to 1940. In
federal court, that many volumes are published in a year.

"In other courts, the law of the land is the published law," said

Michael Ray, a Miami immigration attorney. "But immigration law is not well-

defined. It's too flexible. The judges really sort of make it up as they go

along."

In 1989, for example, the board published 37 of 8,560 decisions. It has

never published a decision granting asylum to a Guatemalan or Haitian, and has
published only one that grants asylum to a Salvadoran.

Some of the decisions conflict, as when the board recognized forced

military recruitment as a basis for asylum in an Afghan case but rejected it

in a Salvadoran case.

Michael T. Ringstad, management officer for Miami's immigration court,

admits: "You're not always going to get the same ruling from two different

judges." But he defends the process. "It's not the best system, but it's the

best we have."

DISTRICT COURTS BLAST JUDGES

Decisions from the Immigration Board of Appeals may be further appealed to
federal district court. But few cases make it that far because the process is
too expensive.

"Basically, they go unchallenged," said Cheryl Little, an attorney with

the Haitian Refugee Center, one of the few agencies in South Florida that

handles immigrants' asylum cases for free. "We don't have the time and

resources to go into federal court on them."

The few times South Florida federal courts have heard appeals, they have

not been pleased with the judges in Miami. Just this month, U.S. Magistrate

William C. Turnoff recommended that an immigration judge re-hear a Haitian

woman's case because she had appeared without an attorney and was not advised of
her right to present evidence, call witnesses or other basic due process

rights.

The U.S. district courts have blasted immigration judges more than once

for what federal judges consider discrimination against Haitian immigrants. In
1980, the courts ruled that the deportation of Haitians was a discriminatory

program aimed at the first substantial flight of black refugees.

Nine years later, U.S. District Judge Eugene P. Spellman found that the

practice was continuing. Spellman ruled that Immigration Judge Keith C.

Williams cut off the testimony of a 16-year-old Haitian boy, never fully

advised him of his rights and failed to provide a list of free legal services.
Williams had ordered the boy deported after asking a total of two questions,

Spellman found.

The Executive Office for Immigration Review does not keep statistics on

asylum requests granted or denied by individual judges, who make between

$67,000 and $87,000 a year. The office would not allow its judges to be

interviewed for this story.

Juan M. Bracete, a Miami immigration judge for 41/4 years, resigned in

1989 to open his own law firm. A staunch defendant of the immigration court

system, his one complaint was that there was too much pressure from the chief
immigration judge to push through cases at an alarming rate.

Last year, the nation's immigration courts heard 145,506 cases. Bracete

said the executive office kept statistics on how long judges took on cases and
that Chief Immigration Judge William Robie often visited to urge the flow.

"It made you angry sometimes when there were cases that needed more

time," Bracete said. "Then you would get in meetings where the only subject

of conversation was how many cases you resolved that month and that there were
too many continuances."

`WELCOME TO AMERICA!'

Many of the asylum cases are heard at Miami's Krome Detention Center,

where hundreds of illegal immigrants are confined behind barbed-wire fences

awaiting their hearings. Most of those detained are Haitians caught illegally
entering the country.

In one of the more bizarre aspects of immigration law, those arrested

arriving in boats and airplanes are labeled as "excludables." In the eyes of

the law they're not really here because they haven't literally crossed the

border. That means they can't be deported. Instead, they are "excluded from

the country."

Lawyers call this a legal fiction that deprives new immigrants of their

due process rights. Excludables are not allowed bond. Instead, they stay in

INS custody at Krome waiting for the court to rule on their cases.

It can be a long wait.

Adeline Frazil, the woman who recently won a favorable recommendation from U.S.
Magistrate Turnoff, was held in INS prisons for two years. Officials

finally paroled her after she was hospitalized for 10 days on a suicide watch
for depression, said her attorney, Candace Jean.

Local INS officials argue that their policy of detaining excludables is

required by law. The tough policy sends a message to others trying to enter

the country illegally.

Delays caused by the Board of Immigration Appeals are even more severe.

In 1976, a federal judge ordered the board to re-hear the case of Benoit

Baltazar, a Haitian man whose asylum claim had been rejected. The board

remanded the case back to an immigration judge at Krome in 1990, 14 years

after it was ordered to do so.

Don Bierman, the lawyer who filed Baltazar's asylum claim, has no idea

where his client is today. Bierman says he quit immigration law 10 years ago,
after suffering a heart attack.

"I got out because it was aggravating," he said. "The immigration

service gives bureaucracy every bad name it deserves. They're arbitrary.

They're not organized. It's just not worth it."

In addition to the seven judges who sit in the immigration building on

Biscayne Boulevard, two other judges preside over the cases at Krome. One

holds court in a creaky trailer where the clamor of rain on the metal roof

often halts proceedings.

Although the court does not supply public defenders, judges are required

to tell Krome's prisoners and other immigrants about local agencies that offer
free legal help. The court's list of these groups contains an impressive 15

organizations. But a closer look at them shows that only four actually

represent immigrants in Miami.

Five are agencies from northern Florida, based in cities such as Pensacola that
are too far away to bother with Miami. Two groups are listed twice.

A few immigration attorneys, who don't work with agencies but often

represent Krome prisoners for free, are often hired through word of mouth at

Krome.

That is how Kang Ning found his attorney, Joan Friedland, this year. INS

officials arrested Kang, a 31-year-old factory worker from Shanghai, as he

carried a fake passport at Miami's airport in April.

In a September asylum hearing before Judge Gustavo D. Villageliu, Kang

shivered in his thin orange Krome uniform and explained through an interpreter
how he was jailed for participating in seven demonstrations in 1989 to support
the student-led protest in Beijing.

As a Krome guard napped, Kang testified that in December 1989, a friend

returned from Japan with a video of the June massacre in Tiananmen Square.

Kang and his friends defied authorities and copied it to let more people know
about the killings.

In January, one of Kang's friends was caught with a video and jailed.

Kang's wife agreed that he should leave for his own safety. He hasn't seen her
or their 4-year-old daughter since.

It took Kang two hours to answer questions from his attorney, the INS

trial attorney and the judge. At the conclusion, Kang, suffering from a

stomach ache, clutched his arms around his belly as the judge issued a long

speech in English about the wonders of democracy. Then he granted Kang asylum.
In English. An interpreter quickly relayed the results.

For the first time in five months, the thought of leaving Krome became a

reality. The prison guard snored. Kang smiled weakly.

"Welcome to America!" the judge cried, throwing his arms open wide.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / Ran all editions /
Third of a series / Graphics do not appear in database; see microfilm

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) AND GRAPHICS
 (1/C) C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer INTRODUCTION TO AMERICA: Kang Ning, 31, a
factory worker from Shanghai, won asylum this month after his April arrest in
Miami for carrying a fake passport. During his hearing at Krome Detention
Center, he was sick, the guard was napping and he couldn't understand most of
the English. `Welcome to America!' the judge said. Kang now lives in North Miami
Beach. (2/C) C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer THE PROBLEMS OF APPEAL: The Haitian
Refugee Center in Miami is one of the few South Florida agencies handling asylum
cases for free. Attorneys Cheryl Little, left, and Esther Olavarria Cruz often
can't appeal when their clients lose. `We don't have the time and resources to
go into federal court on them,' Little says. In the 10 months ending July 30
this year, judges approved only 1 percent of the Haitian asylum requests they
decided. The average for all nationalities was 20.9 percent. (3/C) C.J.
WALKER/Staff Photographer FIRST STOP IN AMERICA: An immigrant in the women's
dorm at Krome Detention Center near Miami writes letters on her bunk. The INS
holds people at Krome until they are deported or win permanent or temporary
permission to stay. Critics say it's inhumane and a waste of money. Graphics by
HEIDI KLIER/Staff Artist Graphics by LINA LAWSON/Staff Artist

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 29, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUPPORTERS, FOES OF EMPLOYER SANCTIONS BRACE FOR BATTLE

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Even before the latest immigration law took effect this month, the lines

were being drawn over the next big immigration battle -- employer sanctions.

The fight has been brewing for five years, since passage of the 1986

amnesty program for millions of people illegally living in the United States.
The 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, was supposed to

reduce illegal entry by requiring employers to verify that their workers were
U.S. citizens or foreigners authorized to work here.

Now, the same broad coalition of Hispanic, Asian-American and other

ethnic, religious, civil liberty and business groups that originally opposed

the provision has sought its repeal. Meanwhile, groups that seek to limit

immigration have defended it and called for more vigorous enforcement.

Last month, bills to repeal the sanctions were introduced in the Senate by Orrin
Hatch, R-Utah, Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and 10 other senators. Senate

hearings are expected in November. Rep. Edward Roybal, a California Democrat,
and 29 co-sponsors introduced a similar measure in the House.

"Employer sanctions simply are not worth the price in increased

employment discrimination and increased burdens on business," Hatch said,

outlining the two major objections to the law.

Kennedy quoted a 1990 report that found "19 percent of the employers

surveyed (by the General Accounting Office) had engaged in some form of

employment discrimination as a result of the new law." Immigration-related

discrimination complaints to the Justice Department are up 37 percent over

last year, he said.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., prime sponsor of the 1986 law, defended

sanctions as "the very core of the reform," and he claimed that job-based

discrimination would exist regardless of the law.

"I can tell you what happens if this (Hatch-Kennedy) bill were to pass,"

Simpson said. "A very clear message would go out to the world: `Well, the

U.S. is no longer very serious at all about controlling its borders. Come on

in.' "

Cecilia Munoz, senior immigration policy analyst for the National Council of La
Raza, an umbrella organization for Hispanic-rights groups, said the

employer-sanction law "is the first law in (American) history which actually

created discrimination."

Repealing employer sanctions will be a top priority for the U.S. Catholic
Conference's Migration and Refugee Services office, said Emma Navaja, director
of immigration.

Keeping it on the books will be a top priority for the Federation for

American Immigration Reform, known as FAIR; the Center for Immigration

Studies; and most of organized labor.

SOLUTION SEEMS ELUSIVE

"I think there is no political will in this country to repeal

sanctions," said Daniel Stein, FAIR's executive director.

The issue is unlikely to be quickly resolved, predicted Frank Sharry,

executive director of the National Immigration Refugee and Citizenship Forum, an
organization of pro-immigration groups.

"On the one hand you have those who want to stop immigration and preserve
America for Americans and all that . . . and on the other hand you have a law
which causes discrimination unparalleled in American history," Sharry said.

He expects the sanctions will either be repealed or strengthened by

creation of a national worker authorization card.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been studying ways of

making hard-to-counterfeit identity cards -- with the bearer's picture and a

hologram image similar to those used on credit cards -- that all workers would
have to show when seeking a job. Simpson tried to create a pilot program for

the cards in three states last year but backed down after the House threatened
to scuttle the entire immigration bill.

I.D.-CARD PLAN ASSAILED

The prospect of a worker identity card touches a raw nerve among some

people, particularly Hispanic-Americans.

La Raza's Munoz said it doesn't matter if all Americans are issued the

worker cards, only certain people -- such as those with Asian or Hispanic

names or features -- will be asked to produce them. In addition, she predicted
Hispanic-Americans would have to produce more extensive documentation to prove
their nationality when applying for the card than would non-Hispanic

Americans.

FAIR's Stein said the image of a worker authorization card as something

akin to Nazi Germany is overblown. He compares it to the instant authorization
that credit card users receive when making a purchase.

There are plenty of other controversial immigration issues.

* Congress is likely to revisit the Refugee Act of 1980 next year. That

law defined refugees as anyone fleeing to the United States because of a

"well-founded fear of persecution."

The collapse of communism in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe could

spur efforts to limit the number of people considered refugees, but unrest in
Haiti, the Middle East and parts of Central America are likely to result in

calls for continued high admission levels, according to people on both sides

of the debate.

Stein and David Simcox, director of the Center for Immigration Studies,

warn that continued admission of refugees based on their nationality rather

than a strict case-by-case assessment of their safety, will result in "chain

migrations" of relatives -- including married siblings and their children.

They want to see family reunification admissions limited to a spouse and minor
children.

Pro-immigration groups want to expand family reunification to eliminate

waiting periods of up to 10 years, for permanent U.S. residents from Mexico to
bring in their spouses and minor children.

Munoz noted that many cultures consider siblings -- even when they are

adults -- part of the immediate family.

* The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 established employer

sanctions and granted amnesty to millions of residents who had been living in
the U.S. illegally.

In addition to the current fight over sanctions, both sides expect a

battle over a possible second amnesty for illegal residents -- including

Salvadorans and Haitians -- who have entered the U.S. since the law took

effect.

* The Immigration Act of 1990, which took effect Oct. 1, increased the

number of legal immigrants the United States would admit annually from about

500,000 to 700,000 through 1994 and 675,000 thereafter. It also opened the

door to highly skilled workers and residents of countries -- primarily Ireland
and other European nations -- who had been largely shut out of the immigration
process since the mid-1960s.

The law created a commission to make non-binding recommendations to

Congress in 1994 and 1997 on immigration levels.

FLORIDA BEARING A BURDEN

"We're at the dawn of a great wave of unprecedented, crushing immigration into
America," warned Stein, who noted that Florida and California already

are bearing a substantial burden in providing education, health and social

services to immigrants.

How the U.S. deals with immigration pressures "is either going to make or break
any quality of life for our posterity," Stein said.

FAIR would like to see all forms of legal entry to the United States

-- including the granting of asylum and refugee admissions -- capped at

300,000 per year.

Simcox agrees that a limit is needed. Although he thinks the level should be
about 500,000, he would leave the exact number to an independent commission --
not Congress.

Munoz acknowledges that there is a "theoretical point" at which the U.S.

could admit too many immigrants, but she said "there is clearly enough room

in this country for people to live with their own kids and spouses."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / Last of a Series / Ran
all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 6, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

19 HAITIAN REFUGEES HELD IN POLITICAL LIMBO ABOARD U.S. SHIP

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


While the Bush administration ponders what immigration policy to take

toward a Haiti under military rule, 19 refugees from that impoverished nation
spent their eighth day at sea Tuesday.

The 19 are the first Haitian refugees interdicted at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard
since the Sept. 30 coup that ousted elected Haitian President Jean-

Bertrand Aristide. They are being held aboard the cutter Steadfast, which

is idling about 20 miles off the Haitian coast.

The U.S. State Department is "evaluating the situation," said one

official who declined to be identified Tuesday. "We are not going to return

them (to Haiti) until we are sure the situation is safe," this official said.
"They are being taken care of. There are places for them, and I would

assume they are perfectly safe on the ship. It's not a tiny, rickety boat.

It's a Coast Guard vessel."

The State Department spokesman estimated the 19 would remain on the ship

"a few more days, I would think, at a minimum."

The refugees pose a dilemma for the Bush administration, which had been

considering a relaxation in its hard-line immigration policy toward Haiti in

the wake of the coup and the turmoil that has ensued. However, as Assistant

Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Bernard Aronson told a

congressional subcommittee Thursday, "The wrong signal could lead to a great

number of people trying to come to South Florida at great risk."

Usually, Haitians en route to the United States are interviewed aboard

ship and almost always are returned to Port-au-Prince after their reasons for
requesting political asylum are deemed insufficient. In the past 10 years,

only 28 of about 24,000 Haitian refugees picked up at sea have been allowed to
enter the United States, according to Leon Jennings, chief of the U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service interdiction program in Miami.

Of those 28, only about four or five have been granted political asylum,

Jennings said.

But Aristide's overthrow has caused a reassessment of the interdiction

policy. Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., has introduced legislation calling for the

suspension of deportation and interdiction of Haitians until democracy is

restored.

Cheryl Little, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, has

called for the Haitians to be brought to Miami. "Lives are at stake, and

conducting interviews at sea is no way to get the facts," she said. "It's as

if the State Department is holding these people hostage."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 14, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT TO DECIDE IF ALIENS FACING STATUS HEARINGS CAN WORK

BYLINE: By CHARLES HOLMES, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court was asked Wednesday to decide whether immigration

officials have the authority under a 1983 regulation to prohibit aliens from

taking jobs in the United States while awaiting deportation hearings.

The class-action lawsuit was filed on behalf of 16 aliens and 13 non-

profit legal organizations from Texas, California, New York and Oregon,

including the Central American Refugee Center in Washington, D.C.

At issue is whether Immigration and Naturalization Service officials, in

setting bond for an alien who has been arrested and will be released while

awaiting a deportation hearing, can as a condition of the bond prohibit the

alien from working while his legal status is being decided.

If an alien released on bond under these conditions is caught working, he or she
can be jailed without the possibility of being freed.

An attorney representing the aliens said the no-work rule assumes guilt

and prevents aliens from earning much-needed money to pay for food, shelter

and legal representation while awaiting a deportation hearing.

"It seems highly unfair to assume that everyone arrested is deportable,"

said Peter Schey of the National Center for Immigrants' Rights.

In the eight-year history of the lawsuit, the enforcement of the

regulation has been halted at times by a federal court in California, which

ruled that the INS went beyond its statutory authority.

After Congress passed a sweeping new immigration bill in 1986, the Supreme Court
allowed the INS to impose the rule while it was under litigation in the lower
courts.

A federal appeals court last year ruled that the regulation is invalid.

Stephen Marzen, a Justice Department attorney representing the INS, told

the high court that the rule merely allows the federal government to prohibit
what is already illegal: the employment of an alien who cannot demonstrate

with a work visa or a visa number the ability to hold a job in the United

States.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 19, 1991 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ADVOCATE URGES IMMIGRATION REFORM TO CONTROL POPULATION;
MARTIN GROUP HEARS FROM NATIONAL FEDERATION

BYLINE: By MARK BRIDGWATER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: STUART


Cameron Whitman is trying to get people to understand the link between the

number of people coming into the United States and the population explosion.

She's the field director for the Federation for American Immigration

Reform, and she told 24 people at the Martin County Conservation Alliance

meeting Monday night that immigration policies should "be recognized as a

population issue."

"Unless people see these things in their daily lives, they don't realize

the implications," she said.

"We would like to see the population of this country stabilize at 300

million" by the year 2020, she said. Moderate- to high-population projections
from Tulane University put the number at 334 million.

Florida's population is projected to reach 22 million by 2020. It's about 13
million now.

Cameron's group has a $2.5 million budget, a 14-member staff in

Washington, D.C., and gets its money from membership fees and foundations

concerned about population growth and its effect on the environment. About

50,000 people belong to the group nationwide.

She travels around the country speaking about problems with immigration

policies. "Some people don't even know there's a problem," Cameron said.

The group is calling for three reforms:

* Limiting family visas to immediate family only. Each year, 465,000

visas are available for spouses or children of U.S. citizens or permanent

residents. Cameron says too many extended family members are getting into the
U.S. under that provision.

* Preventing abuse to the asylum policies. She said many people are

illegally entering the country after bypassing many other safe havens and then
claiming asylum status too late in their stay.

* Limiting work visas to people who are needed in U.S. labor force.

"What does your employment market lack? You would make decisions on

that," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 24, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RIGHTS ADVOCATES TO MONITOR HAITIAN INTERVIEWS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Human rights advocates packed their bags Saturday for Guantanamo Naval Base in
Cuba, where U.S. immigration officials were interviewing more than 1,000

Haitian refugees seeking political asylum.

Four attorneys and four translators from Miami's Haitian Refugee Center

were to leave today to monitor the interviews.

"The longer they're out there, the worse shape they're going to be in,

and the harder it will be to articulate their concerns," said Cheryl Little,

an attorney for the center.

"From a humane standpoint, we're worried about them," she said. "I am

sure the government will continue appealing to prevent us access to ships and
Haitians, while scrambling to find third countries to take them."

The journey comes in response to a federal appeals court ruling late

Friday upholding an earlier restraining order that has stopped the Bush

administration from repatriating thousands of Haitians who have fled their

impoverished land in boats.

The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta ruled that attorneys for the
Haitians could interview the refugees, being held at sea on 15 Coast Guard

cutters and at the naval base.

Hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of Haitians have died at sea in recent

years trying to reach Florida aboard crowded and ill-equipped vessels.

Since Oct. 29, the Coast Guard has intercepted 50 boats from Haiti

carrying a total of 3,351 Haitians, Petty Officer Joe Dye said Saturday.

He said 459 refugees were rescued off the coast of Haiti Friday and

Saturday.

The U.S. State Department on Saturday said 101 refugees were brought to

the United States for further interviews because they had "plausible claims

to asylum."

Meanwhile, off Cuba's eastern coast, rescuers have recovered more bodies

from a boat that capsized late Tuesday in rough waters with about 200 Haitians
aboard. Prensa Latina, the Cuban news agency, reported that 112 bodies have

been recovered; 23 others are missing and presumed dead; 60 persons were

rescued.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 3, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICERS KNOW LITTLE ABOUT HAITI, ATTORNEY SAYS

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As hundreds of demonstrators shouted "justice for Haitians" at the

courthouse steps, government attorneys argued Monday that the United States

should repatriate thousands of Haitian refugees before a "human disaster"

occurs at sea.

But an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami said the U.S.

immigration officials are using a "ridiculous procedure" to review political

asylum requests for the Haitians in Cuba.

U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins did not issue a permanent ruling in a suit
brought by refugee advocates seeking to ban deportations until the

government improves its review process for political asylum claims by

Haitians.

A Nov. 19 federal court order, which expires at 5 p.m. today, temporarily halted
the return of Haitians to their homeland.

Atkins said he may extend the temporary order until Thursday to have more time
to make a "careful and accurate ruling."

The judge's action will decide the fate of nearly 6,400 Haitians housed at a
tent city at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, or on Coast Guard
cutters headed there.

"Lives are being lost," Kenneth Starr, U.S. solicitor general told the

judge. "Increasingly, individuals are fleeing impoverished conditions in

Haiti. Any sign of a change in immigration policy would send an unfortunate

and false beacon of hope that could result in a human disaster."

Starr told Atkins that the Coast Guard is intercepting an average of 300

Haitians a day and that the Guantanamo base will run out of room for the

refugees in two weeks.

In his argument for dismissing the suit, Starr contended that a federal

judge has no jurisdiction over the handling of refugees seeking asylum.

Immigration policy matters fall strictly under the authority of the president
and Congress, Starr said. Moreover, the Haitians in Cuba and on cutters do not
have the right to seek relief in a U.S. court because they are "outside of

the territorial limits of the U.S."

Ira Kurzban, the chief attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami,

who filed the suit, contended the Guantanamo base, which is leased by the

United States from the Cuban government, falls under U.S. jurisdiction.

Kurzban and other local Haitian advocates visited the base during the

weekend and interviewed several refugees and U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service personnel. He told the judge the Miami group concluded
that immigration officials have a "ridiculous procedure" for determining the

validity of the Haitians' political asylum requests.

Three U.S. asylum officers who have interviewed the Haitians knew little

to nothing about the political situation in Haiti, he said. They weren't even
familiar with those in the Haitian military who masterminded the Sept. 30

ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Kurzban said. The coup prompted

the rising tide of refugees.

The immigration officers also were not familiar with several political

opposition groups in Haiti, of which many boat people are members, Kurzban

said. One officer didn't even know the five basic grounds for granting asylum,
the attorney said.

Kurzban argued that the 11-year-old U.S. policy of labeling Haitians as

"economic refugees" is unfair and inhumane.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 27, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS SEE UNCLE SAM PLAY UNCLE SCROOGE . . .

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 396 words


The Bush administration wanted Haitian boat people to be home for

Christmas. In this case, it was a mean-spirited holiday wish.

The refugees, who fled Haiti following a military coup in September, are

being held in a tent city at the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They
have become a symbol of the administration's racist immigration policy that

grants unlimited entry to Cubans but seeks to return all Haitian boat people

without first determining whether they truly qualify for political asylum.

Only the rulings of a federal judge in Miami have forced immigration officials
to stop the summary repatriation. The administration fought the rulings all

through the holidays, and yet another court showdown is scheduled for Monday.
While it pursued forced repatriation, the administration held up a

shipment of Christmas gifts and supplies to the more than 6,000 Haitians

stranded at the Guantanamo base. Only on Christmas Eve did the Pentagon quit

stalling and approve delivery. That meant, of course, that the presents would
arrive late. The administration also cut way back on the number of journalists
who would be allowed to cover the gifts' arrival. Too many photos of Haitian

children with thankfully received food, clothes and toys might drive home the
point that the White House doesn't want made: These refugees are human beings.

A respect for human rights ought to make President Bush rethink his

policies. There is mounting evidence of violence against supporters of ousted
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. A Christmas amnesty by the interim

government released some leaders and members of the violent Tonton Macoutes

militia, which has opposed Mr. Aristide. And the economic embargo imposed on

Haiti has brought the already impoverished country to the brink of crisis-- a
regrettable but necessary result. There is no compelling reason to immediately
return those who have risked death to escape.

Mr. Bush should grant temporary sanctuary to the refugees. The

Organization of American States is continuing negotiations for Mr. Aristide's
return to power, and this week brought signs of hope. When democracy has been
restored, the boat people should be returned.

But so far, the administration is holding firm. The appeals court that

will rule next week already has upheld forced repatriation of the Haitians. By
late next week, the boat people could be sent back. Happy New Year.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 23, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THOSE FLEEING MILITARY NOT ENTITLED TO ASYLUM

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a ruling that will affect thousands of refugees from strife-torn Central
America, the Supreme Court said Wednesday that people who fled to the United

States to avoid forced military service do not deserve political asylum.

In a 6-3 ruling, the court said people pressured to join either a regular army
or guerrilla bands are not necessarily being "persecuted on account of

. . . a political opinion," as required for asylum under the Refugee Act of

1980.

Their decision to flee could instead stem from a desire to avoid combat,

to be with relatives in the United States or many other reasons, the court

said.

The court's ruling gives U.S. officials broader power to deny asylum

requests despite complaints that U.S. officials have imposed a double standard
discriminating against Central Americans.

Lawyers in the case noted that INS officials had granted asylum to

refugees fleeing forced service in the Afghan army but not to those fleeing

armies in Guatemala, El Salvador or Nicaragua.

More than 100,000 petitions for political asylum are pending before the

INS. Over half are from people who fled Central America.

"This is a disturbing decision," said Arthur Helton, director of the

Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York. "The

court has given the law such an exceptionally narrow construction that it will
cause many of these asylum applicants to be denied."

The Department of Justice said that, if the ruling had gone the other way, every
young man fleeing military service could have become eligible for

asylum.

The case involved Jairo Jonathan Elias-Zacarias, 18, who was at his

parents' home in Olintepeque, Guatemala, when two anti-government guerrillas

with machine guns came to the house in January 1987. They urged him to join

their movement, but he refused. When the guerrillas left, they said they would
return and told the young man to "think it over well."

Elias-Zacarias fled to the United States and was arrested by the

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The law holds that an alien seeking asylum must demonstrate "a well-

founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality,

membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."

The Supreme Court said asylum applicants must show persecution results

from a "political motive."

Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in his ruling that Zacarias does not fear

"the guerrillas will persecute him because of a political opinion, rather

than because of his refusal to fight with them."

OTHER CASES

The Supreme Court on Wednesday also:

* STRUCK down an Oklahoma law requiring coal-fired electric generating plants to
burn a mixture of coal at least 10 percent of which was mined in Oklahoma. The
court ruled 6-3 in favor of Wyoming officials who said the law impeded

interstate commerce.

* HEARD arguments in a case involving North Dakota and a mail-order company

that refuses to collect sales tax on out-of-state orders. In 1967, the Supreme
Court barred state taxation of mail-order businesses. The state argued that

the 1967 decision has given mail-order firms an unfair advantage because they
can sell goods more cheaply than retailers forced to pay state taxes.

* REVIEWED an Escondido, Calif., rent-control law that lets owners of mobile
homes sell their trailers to new tenants. The owners of a mobile home park say
the law denies them the right to choose their tenants. The city says the law

protects elderly tenants' rights.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 8, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GA. FIRM FINED $1 MILLION FOR SMUGGLING FARMWORKERS

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SCROGGINS, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: FORT VALLEY, GA.


A "bondage-type" operation run out of a Fort Valley peach-packing company

charged thousands of Mexicans $1,400 each for illegal passage into below-

minimum wage jobs in Georgia, North Carolina and Florida, immigration

officials said on Friday.

Four employees of the Lane Packing Co. have been convicted in the scheme, and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service levied the biggest fine in its
history against the company on Friday.

But INS officials say the $1.2 million fine and criminal penalties fell

far short of the amount Lane and its employees made exploiting illegal Mexican
labor for at least the past two years.

"Compared to the profits, the penalties are a slap on the wrist," said

Thomas Fischer, district director of the INS Atlanta office. "That's why

many people get into this instead of drugs."

Fischer said the INS still is investigating possible criminal violations of
immigration laws by Lane Packing Co. Jim Valin, regional administrator for the
Georgia Department of Labor, said state authorities also are looking into labor
violations at the company.

An attorney representing Duke Lane Sr., the company's owner, would not

comment except to say that the corporation will appeal the fine at an INS

administrative hearing.

"If the results achieved at the administrative law hearing are not

satisfactory, we will appeal to the U.S. District Court in Macon," said

attorney Jay Hawkins said from Macon.

For at least two years, Lane foremen Bernardo and David Maceda, their

brother Gaston Maceda and their stepbrother, Aguileo Castillo, smuggled about
250 Mexican workers a month to the southeastern United States, INS authorities
said.

Fischer said the brothers traveled to Mexico regularly to hand pick

workers from villages near Veracruz. He said families frequently pooled their
money to pay the $1,000 for transportation and $400 for false papers the

Macedas demanded up front from each worker.

In return for the money, the Lane employees arranged for the Mexicans to

be driven to the border near Del Rio, Texas. "Coyotes" or smugglers who

specialize in crossing the Rio Grande and avoiding border patrols, led the

workers into Texas by night. The Macedas and Castillo, or drivers working for
them, picked up the Mexicans in vans or trucks and drove them to Fort Valley

or citrus groves in Florida or other sites in Georgia and North Carolina,

Fischer said.

He said Lane Packing Co. hired about 800 of the Mexicans to work as peach
packers or pickers at $4 an hour, or 25 cents an hour less than minimum wage.
The company then charged the Mexicans $50 a month to sleep in crowded and

flimsy dormitories without enclosed toilets or air- conditioning. The Mexicans
also were encouraged to purchase food and other necessities from company

stores, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 9, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS FLEEING OUTNUMBER RETURNEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


The United States sent 200 more Haitian refugees back to their homeland

Saturday, but officials at a U.S. refugee camp said more boat people were

arriving than were returned.

A Haitian immigration official predicted many of those returning would try to
flee again soon.

At Port-au-Prince's oil-caked municipal wharf, lined with rusty

freighters, 200 Haitians filed passively down the gangplank of the U.S. Coast
Guard cutter Seneca and into the hands of Red Cross volunteers and Haitian

immigration police.

The latest Haitians brought to 1,089 the number of boat people returned

since a U.S. Supreme Court decision on Jan. 31 cleared the way for

repatriations.

Refugee rights groups object to the repatriation, charging that the boat

people could suffer retribution by the military-backed government that was

installed after a coup ousted elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on

Sept. 30. Since the coup, numerous cases of political repression have been

reported.

U.S. officials say the Haitians are fleeing for economic reasons not

because of political persecution.

On Saturday, the Seneca's decks were covered with jerry-rigged blue and

yellow canopies to provide refugees some shelter during the overnight journey
from the refugee camp set up at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba. The

refugees had camped out on the deck with woolen blankets.

At Guantanamo, Coast Guard Lt. Peter Seaman said that from Feb. 1 to

Thursday, 889 Haitians were sent back, but 961 were brought in, many

intercepted in frail wooden boats off Haiti's coast. The camp held 11,570

refugees on Friday.

A Haitian immigration official overseeing the repatriation, Maj. Jacques

Denis, said the refugee problem would continue because of the impoverished

nation's severe economic problems.

"A lot of them, next week they will try again," Denis said. "Half of

these people will try to go back."

Coast guard officers checking each departing refugee wore thin rubber

gloves, such as those worn by doctors, apparently to protect themselves from

any exposure to disease. Navy officials have expressed concern about the

incidence of refugees who tested positive in Guantanamo for the AIDS virus.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 21, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS WITH HIV FUELING U.S. DEBATE

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration is debating whether to admit to the United States

230 Haitian refugees who qualify for political asylum but are infected with

the virus that causes AIDS.

The refugees, along with others who have escaped their strife-torn island
nation, are being housed at a U.S.-run camp at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in

Cuba.

Vern Jervis, an INS spokesman in Washington, confirmed that discussions

have taken place between officials of the Department of Justice and the State
Department over the status of the refugees.

Sources familiar with those discussions said three options have emerged:

sending the HIV-positive Haitians home; denying immediate entry to the United
States but processing their asylum claims at Guantanamo Bay; or granting them a
waiver to enter the United States.

Immigration laws now permit the government to deny entry to immigrants who are
infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.

Exceptions may be made for immigrants seeking political asylum.

Advocates for the refugees say their clients have been singled out for

testing as a way of preventing them from entering the country.

"Typically, asylum seekers have never been subjected to HIV testing,"

said Cheryl Little, an attorney with the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami.

Officials estimate that up to 8 percent of the adult Haitian population is
infected with HIV.

Navy officials at Guantanamo said those persons found to be HIV-positive

were among the first 3,440 Haitians tested at Guantanamo.

Of the nearly 15,000 Haitian boat people who have been picked up by the

U.S. Coast Guard since a military coup in Haiti last September, about 4,100

have tentatively been granted political asylum by the Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

In other developments:

* Haitian Prime Minister-designate Rene Theodore and ousted President

Jean-Bertrand Aristide are to meet today in Washington to try to untangle the
political crisis.

* In Washington, the House Judiciary Committee voted 21-12 to impose a

six-month moratorium on the forced repatriation of Haitians. The bill now

faces a vote by the full House, which is unlikely to debate the legislation

before next month.

A companion bill is being prepared for the Senate by Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., chairman of the immigration subcommittee. But sources on Capitol Hill
said the legislation was unlikely to reach the White House, where it faces a

certain veto.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  All Editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP) FORMER BALLERINA BALLERINA KATHERINE DUNHAM, 82, IS
HOSPITALIZED IN EAST ST. LOUIS, ILL., ON WEDNESDAY DURING THE 20TH DAY OF HER
HUNGER STRIKE PROTESTING THE REPATRIATION OF HAITIANS. ACTIVIST DICK GREGORY WAS
ARRESTED THE SAME DAY AFTER SPENDING THE NIGHT HANDCUFFED TO THE DOORS OF THE
U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN SUPPORT OF DUNHAM.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 23, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CRIMINAL ALIENS COSTLY, DIFFICULT TO DEPORT, AGENTS SAY

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 940 words


When a U.S. Border Patrol agent tried to put Steve Lloyd Beckford of

Riviera Beach into a holding cell last year, Beckford attacked the agent,

sending him to St. Mary's Hospital with facial cuts.

Beckford is a legally registered alien who came from Jamaica in 1985. But he was
picked up for deportation after compiling a long list of convictions

for aggravated child abuse, burglary, resisting arrest and marijuana

possession.

Immigration officials locally and in Washington say the Beckford case is a good
example of how difficult and time-consuming it is to deport aliens who commit
serious crimes. They say the cost of criminal aliens to the taxpayer in legal
bills and incarceration totals millions of dollars.

Here's how court and jail costs stack up:

* The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service spent $161 million

nationally last year to detain

and deport criminal aliens. The number of criminal aliens detained nationwide in
1991 totaled 58,323, up from 57,922 in 1990.

* Aliens make up 25 percent of inmates in the federal prison system, with

most convicted on drug charges.

* The federal government paid $2.3 million last year to house 1,200

criminal aliens in the Palm Beach County Jail.

* The district Border Patrol Office in Riviera Beach processed 140 criminal
aliens for deportation last year and is averaging 15 a month this year.

But court and jail costs aren't the only strains criminal aliens place on the
system, officials say.

For example, Beckford owes area doctors and hospitals $84,000 for surgery and
treatment for gunshot and knife wounds he received on three occasions,

Border Patrol records show.

He also has two illegitimate children who live with their mother in West Palm
Beach and are supported by taxpayer-paid Aid to Families with Dependent

Children, officials said.

Beckford also completed at public expense two court-ordered alcohol and

drug rehabilitation programs in 1989 and 1990.

"His criminal record represents only part of what he has cost

taxpayers," said Neal Richards, chief agent at the Riviera Beach Border

Patrol office.

"The only time he ever worked was as a dishwasher for five months,"

Richards said.

In statements to the Border Patrol, Beckford claims to have consumed

between four and six six-packs of beer and smoked $100 worth of marijuana

daily since he came to the United States.

Beckford was convicted last month of assaulting the agent and is to be

sentenced March 6. He will have to serve a federal sentence for the assault

before getting a deportation hearing.

"This is the type of criminal alien we're concentrating on with the

manpower we have," said Richards, who commands three agents for a district

that includes Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie and five other counties.

Legal aliens can't be deported unless they have been convicted of a

felony.

The government can deport illegal aliens without trying them for their

offenses but rarely does if the crimes are serious, said Duke Austin, an INS

spokesman.

"We can't have an alien making millions of dollars in the drug trade and the
only penalty for his activities being an airplane ticket back to Bogota," he
said.

Many criminal aliens agree to deportation, but others drag out the

process in appeals, Austin said. Some feel they can do a short time in the

crowded state prison system and then be back on the street.

"The way the laws are today, it's virtually impossible for the INS to

remove people (who fight deportation)," Austin said.

Federal law prohibits aliens from being deported without a hearing,

Austin said.

Criminals make up only a small portion of the 700,000 legal aliens and

estimated 4.5 million undocumented aliens who come into the United States each
year, he said.

U.S. Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, said last week the lack of

action by the federal government is draining Florida taxpayers.

"It's an abominable situation," Lewis said. "I've been fighting with

INS for years about our immigration problems here. We need additional Border

Patrol agents."

But INS spokesman Austin said that even if additional agents were hired

to round up more criminal aliens, deportation for all of those arrested is not a
certainty.

The INS is trying to reduce the logjam by giving thousands of inmates

deportation hearings while they are incarcerated, Austin said.

Although the government is increasing the number of such hearings, it

can't keep up with the 60,000 criminal aliens incarcerated annually by the

states, he said.

There are about 600 felons who have completed serving their prison time

who are being held at a federal facility in Oakdale, La., the detention center
expressly for criminal aliens being held for deportation, INS records show.

But many of the 60,000 criminal aliens imprisoned annually are released

after completing their sentences because there are no places to detain them to
await deportation hearings, Austin said.

They are told to return later for hearings, but very few do, he said.

"There's no penalty for not showing up, and no motive for them to return.

It's a case of `catch me if you can.' "

Releases of large numbers of criminal aliens before they can be processed for
deportation sparks criticism from state authorities, who report that the

aliens quickly return to crime, Austin said.

Compounding the problem of removing criminal aliens are the rights they

have under U.S. law.

If the alien is ordered deported, he can file an appeal with the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington, D.C.

A change in deportation laws is needed, Austin said.

"Once they have been convicted and sentenced on a felony, that should

abort any access to immigration court," Austin said. "The conviction of a

criminal alien should be enough to establish deportability."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Not MSL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 3, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S IMMIGRATION POLICY IS ABSURD AND INCONSISTENT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1277 words


I want to commend Charles Bond's recent Listening Post column, "Unstick

Cuban `defector' label" for the excellent assessment of the problems with

U.S. refugee and asylum policy. He pointed up the absurdity, inconsistency and
counterproductiveness of our policies.

It is hard to justify our repatriation of Haitians (even those coming for

purely economic reasons) when we grant carte-blanche admission to Cubans

regardless of why they came or how they got here.

Our policy vis-a-vis Cuba has been self-defeating. Certainly, one of the

reasons Fidel Castro is the last Soviet-bloc leader still hanging onto power

is because he has managed to export his political opposition. Likewise, if we
allow the military junta in Haiti to send its political opposition to this

country, we will be ensuring Haiti's enslavement for a long, long time.

Ira Mehlman

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington, D.C.

Editor's note: F.A.I.R. is a non-profit, public-interest organization with the
stated goals of ending illegal immigration and setting reasonable levels

of legal immigration.

ISRAEL HAS THE RIGHT TO DEFEND ITSELF

Your articles and cartoons bashing Israel for protecting what is theirs is
journalism at its lowest. Whatever Israel has acquired has been through the

blood and tears of its own people. They are the only true ally the United

States has in the Middle East.

Travel to Israel, and you will see that this land bordered on all sides by its
sworn enemies must do what it has to do to protect its people and their

property. Israel is the only place in the world where a Jewish person can

stand tall and be accepted in spite of who he is. Israel seeks peace but not

at the expense of its right to survive as an independent country.

Marcia Goodman

Boynton Beach

TOO MANY RENTAL CARS ARE IMPORTS

Now that the tourist season is in full swing, with many rental cars on our
roads, it is astonishing to note how many are imported. If our rental

companies were to use only domestic cars, what a positive impact it would have
on a sagging industry and economy!

In the future, when I have occasion to rent a car, I will insist that it be one
made in the United States. If all Americans followed this practice, rental
companies would be forced to alter their purchasing policies.

Also, with all the purchasing incentives being offered by American

automakers, what if they were to give an additional trade-in allowance on a

foreign car toward the purchase of one of theirs?

Henry J. Kurtz

Jensen Beach

WHO SAYS WE HAVE NO SERVICES TAX?

Your editorial "Closing the loopholes a less taxing approach"

perpetuates the myth that there is no tax on services.

When I had scissors sharpened, I was charged tax on the total because oil was
used to lubricate the whetstone. When my lawn mower is serviced, I pay tax on
the total bill, not just the spark plug and oil.

Who is kidding whom? Former Gov. Bob Martinez's tax on services is alive

and well and living in Florida, albeit undercover.

Helen Coughter

Tequesta

EXERCISE YOUR FREEDOM OF SPEECH

Friday will be an important day for freedom of speech. There will be a

public forum from 4 to 7 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the Palm Beach County

Governmental Center in downtown West Palm Beach. A public-address system will be
available for scheduled and impromptu speakers to practice their freedom of
speech.

The American Civil Liberties Union is organizing this event. The public

forums can certainly be useful in this presidential election year. We are

starting the second 200 years of freedom of speech. Come experience American

freedom.

Anthony E. Nacrelli

Lake Worth

WXEL FUND-RAISER DID NOTHING WRONG

It saddens me greatly the way John Dover was treated by the "swarming

volunteers" at WXEL and by the media. He's a fine young man and did not in

any way deserve the actions taken against him.

My family and I have known John as a friend for nearly 30 years. He was

not an "out-of-work" bank executive. He gave up a fine position in Atlanta

to undertake this new challenge.

A lot of apologies are in order. The WXEL "people" did a number on him,

and so did the media.

Marg Mertes

Delray Beach

COUNTY LETTING THE SELF-RIGHTEOUS RULE

That Palm Beach County's commissioners busy themselves with such a

trifling issue as the attire of hot-dog vendors while all around exist real

crimes and social ills, isn't as distasteful as the realization that they are
waiving yet again more of our rights. This is not about letting street vendors
wear skimpy clothing. It's about giving the power to legislate morality to a

group of small-minded officials representing another small group of self-

righteous, hidebound people.

Don't let closed-minded reactionaries continue to dictate their rigid

doctrines. We must defend our freedom every day. Let the elected officials of
all levels of government know how you feel. They represent the loudest

constituents.

B. Weaver

North Palm Beach

JUDGE SHOULD THROW THE BOOK AT TYSON

I am appalled at the attempts by Donald Trump to keep Mike Tyson out of

prison. But I am infuriated by the group of ministers circulating a petition

opposing prison time for this "black role model."

Tyson has proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that he is a vicious man who, by his
own admission, enjoys hurting women. His relationship with his ex-wife, Robin
Givens, is no secret and he is no stranger to lawlessness.

As a man, I am embarrassed. As a father of two daughters, I am outraged.

It is beyond my comprehension how any man who has either a wife or daughter he
loves can condone such behavior. To allow this act to go unpunished is to

ensure its continuance in the future.

Jerry W. Wallace

Wellington

ACCUSERS OBVIOUSLY SEEKING PUBLICITY

I am very concerned with the amount of publicity the Mike Tyson rape

conviction is getting. It seems that ever since Anita Hill accused Judge

Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment, women are coming out of the woodwork

saying they have been raped. You don't hear of many "unknown" men being

accused of rape in the papers, only the ones with big names and money.

Obviously, these women are accusing these men for the publicity.

Michelle Thompson

Belle Glade

CIGAR-STORE INDIAN BETTER THAN BUSH

George Bush campaigns for "jobs, jobs, jobs" as though he were

campaigning against an incumbent Democratic president instead of being a

Republican president!

It you were sick, would you go to a doctor who kept saying all is well,

it's only technical, and after you were buried, told your family that the

fault was not his but some other doctor's?

The trouble with America is that we elected a quack. I would vote for any
Democratic candidate over George Bush, even a cigar-store Indian!

Elena Isabel Passerman

West Palm Beach

CONGRESSMEN JOIN THE MIDDLE CLASS

Isn't it interesting that the Democratic congressmen, in their new tax

package, propose establishing the yearly income dividing line between the

"middle class" and "wealthy" at $135,000, where a higher tax bracket

would kick in.

It's no surprise that this happens to essentially be their yearly salary. Roger
Bettin

Atlantis

A PERSON CAN'T BE A MERCHANT MARINE

In the story "Voyage of faith . . . " staff writer Norv Roggen refers to

Erkki Rajala as a "merchant marine." This is incorrect terminology. Merchant

marine refers to a nation's merchant fleet, not to an individual who sails in
that fleet. Such a person is not a merchant marine. He is a merchant mariner, a
merchant seaman, or, less often, a merchant sailor. Generally, however, in

American usage, a sailor is in the Navy, not the merchant service (apologies

to the Sailors Union of the Pacific).

I'm a merchant seaman myself, a graduate of the United States Merchant Marine
Academy and a retired Panama Canal pilot.

Smooth sailing to Mr. Rajala.

James C. Cook

Lake Park\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/TYSON, MICHAEL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 1992 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

DEA INFORMANT FLOORED BY DEPORTATION SURPRISE

BYLINE: By PAT MOORE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: STUART


A former high-paid government informant clutched his chest and collapsed in
Martin Circuit Court Monday after immigration officials surprised him with

plans to deport him.

But Marwan "Mario" Abouraad's sudden attack came as no surprise to

immigration officials, who said the Lebanon native feigned a similar attack

after his arrest on a larceny charge in New Jersey nine years ago.

"It's right in his record; if he is encountered by authorities he might

feign medical illness," said Bill West, supervisor of the Miami office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But Assistant Public Defender Kim Mollica said she did not believe

Abouraad was faking because his hands curled in awkward positions after he

collapsed.

"I think he had some kind of anxiety attack. He didn't want to go back

to Lebanon," she said.

As a precaution, courtroom bailiffs called for emergency rescue workers

after Abouraad appeared to have blacked out. Stuart paramedic Laura Eger

subsequently assured the judge that Abouraad was fine and didn't require any

medication-- not even oxygen.

The attack occurred just minutes after Circuit Judge Marc Cianca allowed
Abouraad and his pregnant wife, Tara Lynn Walden, to say their goodbyes in the
jury box.

Abouraad sobbed while hugging and kissing his wife, and the judge once

cautioned them "to relax and not get too emotional."

Abouraad, 30, of Boca Raton, came to court Monday to face cocaine and

firearm possession charges stemming from his Jan. 16 arrest in Palm City.

After the attack, he pleaded no contest to the charges, and Cianca

sentenced him to the one day he had spent in jail and three years' probation.
Cianca placed Abouraad in the custody of immigration agents, who took him to the
Krome Detention Center in Miami to await a hearing before an

immigration judge.

Abouraad was deported in 1985 for entering the United States with a fake
passport, but DEA agents helped him re-enter the country two years later on

parole status. Agents said he helped the DEA seize $11 million to $15 million
worth of heroin and another $1.2 million in property, mostly cash.

"He was allowed to come and go, in and out of the United States,

indefinitely," West said. "However, that did not grant him permanent status

in this country, and he could not violate the laws of the United States."

When Abouraad first appeared before Cianca last month, he said his

$225,000 Lighthouse Point home was destroyed by fire, and his Porsche was

being repossessed.

The judge likened Abouraad's troubles to a soap opera tale and appointed a
publicly paid attorney to represent him. The judge didn't know Abouraad

earned as much as $800,000 for three years' work as a confidential informant

for the Drug Enforcement Administration.

In a 1990 trial, Abouraad testified about his opulent lifestyle, which

included free trips to New York and Europe, VIP passes to Atlantic City

casinos and the fleet of expensive cars he bought while on the government's

payroll.

Though Abouraad had a lengthy record for crimes in many states, West said it was
"discretionary" whether immigration officials sought to revoke his

status in this country.

"We decided to revoke his parole status today," West said. "Legally

that means he reverts to the position of just arriving at a port of entry into
this country and is excludable based on his criminal record."

Though a judge must order Abouraad sent back to his homeland, West said

"in all practicality, that is just a formality."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run F.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 BARRY C. ALLEN/Staff Photographer Martin County sheriff's deputy Anthony
Stracuzzi escorts Marwan Abouraad back into court after Abouraad collapsed when
told he was to be deported. Paramedics found nothing wrong with him.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 5, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETENTION OF REFUGEES CONSIDERED;
BUSH HAS UNTIL FEB. 20 TO SOLVE GROWING CRISIS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government, in a quandary over how to handle the massive influx of
Central Americans seeking political asylum, is debating a range of

approaches, including detention centers, Bush administration sources said

Saturday.

One source said that idea, which drew immediate criticism from immigrant

advocates, is at the "conservative end of the scale." At the "liberal

end," officials within the Department of Justice are advocating a special

status called "extended voluntary departure" that would allow the immigrants

to remain in this country until the situations in their homelands become

stable.

Also, officials said, the administration is casting about for ways to

pressure Mexican officials into helping to stem the flow of undocumented

immigrants through Mexico to the United States.

"We're looking for Mexican help to cut them off," said an administration

official, referring to the Central American immigrants. But the official

acknowledged that this tack runs the risk of angering Mexicans, who might view
it as intervention.

The other possible solutions also are fraught with problems, making the

situation a proverbial political minefield for the new administration.

Meanwhile, a federal judge's order last week effectively gave the government

until Feb. 20 to come up with a way to handle the continuing flow of

immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that since July, 30,000
Central Americans-- about half of them Nicaraguans-- have poured across the

Texas border. Immigrant activists say the INS focus on Texas is causing

smugglers to turn to other routes. Once in the country, most of the immigrants
disperse to Florida and California, with a sizable number settling in

Washington.

`A TOUGH PROBLEM'

What the administration will do to handle the continuing influx "is still up in
the air," said Loye Miller, director of public affairs at the

Department of Justice. "It's a . . . tough problem."

The INS, maintaining that the refugees' claims of fear of persecution are
frivolous, in December issued rules that made the immigrants wait at the point
of entry while their claims were processed. In Brownsville, Texas, Tuesday,

U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela issued a 20-day stay of the INS rule, making it
possible for the immigrants to apply for asylum any place in the nation,

thus avoiding the possibility of being trapped in squalid camps in South

Texas.

At the same time, the judge indicated that he was likely to allow the INS to
begin holding immigrants in South Texas when the order expires in less than
three weeks, saying the December ruling was within the law.

Even if the judge sides with them, INS officials realize they must find a way to
handle the huge numbers of immigrants who would be concentrated in

Brownsville.

DETENTION CENTER PLAN

"Putting up some kind of detention centers (in the border areas)

addresses the issue of meeting their human needs," said one administration

official.

But the lingering criticism of the federal policy that put Cuban and

Haitian immigrants in such centers after their arrival in 1980 weighs heavily
against the plan. "The notion of alien detention centers on U.S. soil is

disturbing because it violates the spirit if not the letter of the Refugee Act
of 1980," said Wade Henderson, associate director of the Washington office of
the American Civil Liberties Union.

Carmen Monico, national coordinator of the Central American Refugee

Committees, said activists would "start a campaign" to prevent the

immigration service from operating the centers. "We don't need more detention
centers," she said. "We need a fair refugee act, including every

consideration of extended voluntary departure."

SPECIAL STATUS WEIGHED

Over the years, this temporary status, granted at the president's

discretion, has been applied to numerous countries deemed unstable and unsafe.
Currently, Ethiopians, Poles and Afghans are allowed to stay in the United

States under this policy.

But the conservative Bush administration, like Reagan's before it, faces a
barrage of criticism from the right if it offers refuge to Salvadorans; that

would be perceived as an acknowledgement that the Salvadoran government, a

U.S. ally, is oppressive.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 30, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH SIGNS BILL ALLOWING MORE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush signed Thursday a massive revamp of the nation's immigration law
that increases the number of people allowed to immigrate and strikes down
exclusion of entry on the basis of sexual orientation and political views.

Bush hailed the first major overhaul of immigration law since 1965 as a

"complementary blending of our tradition of family reunification with

increased immigration of skilled individuals to meet our economic needs."

It changes the 1950s-era immigration ban against communists and

homosexuals, but still allows the secretary of state discretion to bar legal

status to those considered to be terrorist or foreign policy threats.

The bill will increase immigration from 540,000 in 1989 to 700,000 people a year
for each of the next three years and stabilize the annual total at

675,000 after that.

The bill's three-year total of 2.1 million visas for permanent residence

is up from 1.7 million in the previous three-year period.

The changes were hailed by Irish and other European immigrant interests

who stand to benefit from the increase, gay groups, Filipino veterans and

Salvadorans fleeing their war-torn country.

The provisions of the new law emphasize reuniting families, with

immigrants sponsored by family members increasing to 520,000 per year through
1994, and at least 480,000 a year thereafter.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 30, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

200 PROTEST TREATMENT OF HAITIAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A crowd of about 200 people gathered Sunday at the gates of the U.S.

Immigration Service's Krome Avenue Detention Center to protest the treatment

of Haitians trying to get into the United States.

On the other side of the gate, facing them from within the facility, were
several dozen federal officers standing in closed ranks, shields, helmets

clubs and body armor at the ready.

"We come for peace, and they're ready from war," said Ray Fauntroy,

president of Dade County chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference.

More than a dozen Metro-Dade police officers stood by outside.

The protesters were primarily, but not exclusively, Haitians. Their number
included families and groups of little old ladies.

Dozens of vehicles lined the lane leading to the detention center. At

times, the atmoshere was almost picnic-like as people walked toward the

entrance to the facility, carrying jugs of water. Many were dressed as though
they'd just come from church.

But at the concertina-wire-topped gates, there was a demonstration going

on. People displayed stenciled placards bearing such legends as "Fight

Racism. Justice For Black People" and "One black is hurt, all are hurt."

Activist Betty Ferguson was one of the speakers. She discussed the riot-

ready officers standing several yards behind the fence, some of whom were

armed.

"When they are ready to shoot us down like dogs, then that means they

know we are right," she said. "We are only asking equal treatment for

Haitians.

"If they treat us like this and we're in the outside, how do you think

they're treating them on the inside?" she said, drawing a huge response from

the crowd. Her remarks were translated for non-English speakers in the group.
According to INS district director Perry Rivkind, there are about 300

Haitians at Krome. The facility was placed under a modified lockdown

-- severely restricting the movement of detainees-- in preparation for the

demonstration.

The demonstration was sponsored by the Haitian organization Veye-Yo. Its

members distributed leaflets listing the group's demands: equal treatment for
black refugees, freedom for the Haitian refugees at Krome and other

installations around the nation, and no support for any "Duvalierist"

Haitian government.

Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, director of the Haitian Refugee Center, was among those
in the crowd. "We want equal treatment," he said. "The Nicaraguans

don't come here. The Cubans don't stay too long."

He added that he was pleased by the presence of native American blacks in the
group and what he perceived as growing cohesiveness among black people in Miami.

"We've gotten much support," he said.

Andre Volcy, 40, brought his son and daughter, Andre Jr., 7, and Fadja, 5, who
wore pig-tails, a yellow dress and ruffled ankle socks.

"I'm Haitian," Volcy explained. "I want justice for Haitians. All the

people in the prison, I came for their liberation."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 16, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

1,000 ALIENS SEEK AMNESTY AT INS TEXAS DETENTION SITE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


More than 1,000 Central Americans formed a half-mile line Wednesday outside a
rural Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center after the INS was
evicted from its downtown offices.

It was their first chance to file for political amnesty since the INS

processing center in Harlingen was closed Friday because of alleged health-

and fire-code violations.

"This tremendous line here represents a large number of Central Americans

flooding into the Rio Grande Valley, and we just can't continue like this,"

said Omer Sewell, the INS district director in Harlingen.

INS officials at about 10 a.m. began moving the refugees on to the grounds of
the minimum-security Port Isabel detention center, which holds 425 aliens, most
of them awaiting deportation.

"I'm fleeing from military service," said Nicaraguan Henry Torres, 27,

as he waited in line. "A communist country is no good."

Torres was one of several hundred people who camped overnight outside the
entrance to the detention center near the community of Bayview, 25 miles

southeast of Harlingen. By midmorning, hundreds more had joined the line.

Taxis, vans and cars carried many of the immigrants to the rural center,

avoiding some of the traffic congestion that had led to complaints about the

processing site at a former Harlingen furniture store.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 16, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

1,000 ALIENS SEEK AMNESTY AT INS TEXAS DETENTION SITE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


More than 1,000 Central Americans formed a half-mile line Wednesday outside a ru

ral Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center after the INS was
evicted from its downtow

n offices.

It was their first chance to file for political amnesty since the INS

processing center in Harling

en was closed Friday because of alleged health- and fire-code violations.

"This tremendous line here represents a large number of Central Americans
flooding into the Rio G

rande Valley, and we just can't continue like this," said Omer Sewell, the

INS district director in H

arlingen.

INS officials at about 10 a.m. began moving the refugees on to the grounds of
the minimum-security

Port Isabel detention center, which holds 425 aliens, most of them awaiting

deportation.

"I'm fleeing from military service," said Nicaraguan Henry Torres, 27,

as he waited in line. "A

communist country is no good."

Torres was one of several hundred people who camped overnight outside the
entrance to the detentio

n center near the community of Bayview, 25 miles southeast of Harlingen. By

midmorning, hundreds more

had joined the line.

Taxis, vans and cars carried many of the immigrants to the rural center,

avoiding some of the traf

fic congestion that had led to complaints about the processing site at a

former Harlingen furniture st

ore.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 5, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' CONFUSION' MARKS INS OFFICE IN MIAMI, LEWIS SAYS OF REPORT

BYLINE: By JOUNICE NEALY, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Management of the Miami district office of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service "is confusing, if not lacking," Rep. Tom Lewis said

after reviewing a confidential report by the Justice Department's inspector

general's office.

Lewis, a Republican from North Palm Beach, said the report cited the Krome
Service Processing Center in Miami for prolonged "confusion" regarding

staffing levels and for not fully utilizing the center's capacity.

"The report does not reach to the heart of the INS' management and

control problems in Florida, but it most surely supports our claim that

problems exist," Lewis said.

Lewis also has requested another investigation of the INS Miami office by

the General Accounting Office.

The Krome Avenue detention center was designed to accommodate 1,000 people with
a staff of 200, according to the inspector general's management

assistance review. However, last year the center held about 520 detainees on

an average daily basis because of understaffing, the report said.

Raising Krome's 1989 $6.3 million budget to almost $13 million would allow the
detention center to hold the intended capacity of 1,000 detainees a day,

the report said.

Congress authorized 922 INS positions for the Miami district office, but

the agency filled only 675 positions, Lewis said.

"It is increasingly clear that the INS system of staffing Florida is not

based on need. Comparative staffing clearly would better address Florida's

urgent immigration needs," Lewis said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 13, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE / REGIONAL NEWS;
EX-KROME DETAINEES AIR ABUSE CLAIMS

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Aliens once held at the Krome Detention Center relayed accounts Thursday of
beatings and other abuses by the camp's guards.

At a news conference arranged by Haitian community leaders and human

rights groups, the ex-detainees said the mistreatment included beatings,

sexual abuse, solitary confinement and denial of telephone privileges. They

also said guards often denied them food.

"I don't know why I was treated like that," said Lavidieu Conserve, 33,

describing a severe beating guards gave him after he argued with a fellow

detainee. "I left Haiti for a better life here. I thought I had left all the

violence behind in Haiti."

Conserve, now a Palm Beach County farmworker, said Krome guards threw him to the
floor and stomped on him in May.

"I was beaten and, at the time, I was very skinny," he said. "When I

fell to the ground, all the guards jumped on top of me. Then they tied me up

with a rope."

After the beating, Conserve said, he was placed in an isolation cell for

20 days.

The western Dade County facility, run by the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, is the target of at least two investigations after

disclosures by former detainees of the treatment there.

Both INS District Director Richard Smith and U.S. Rep. Dante Fascell have called
for federal probes by the Justice Department into alleged abuses at the camp,
which holds about 500 aliens, most of them Haitians.

"We are very concerned that these allegations aren't taken seriously,"

said Cheryl Little, a director of the Haitian Refugee Center in Little Haiti.
Little said many detainees have reported sexual abuses at Krome. Guards

often threaten female detainees with deportation if they refuse to have sex,

Little said.

"One woman was deprived access to the cafeteria after she turned down

sex," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 6, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JESSE JACKSON URGES CHANGE IN HAITIAN IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH


The Rev. Jesse Jackson pledged Tuesday to push for changes in U.S. policy

on Haitian aliens, saying Haitians are subjected to an inhumane double

standard.

Jackson, who toured the federal Krome Detention Center west of Miami

Monday and addressed the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, said he
opposes the incarceration of Haitians while Cuban refugees are allowed to

remain free pending review of their asylum cases.

Jackson said he planned to discuss the immigration policy and alleged

civil-rights abuses at Krome with U.S. Attorney General Richard Thornburgh.

Also addressing the convention, AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland cited

health care costs as one of the most pressing labor issues of the 1990s.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 15, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MACK TO REVIEW HAITIAN REFUGEE POLICY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Sen. Connie Mack toured the Krome Detention Center on Wednesday, saying

federal officials must find ways to speed up Haitian detainee cases.

Mack, R-Cape Coral, was urged to visit the federal camp west of Miami by

Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez and Metro Commissioner Art Teele, both of whom also
toured the facility. The visit was in response to widespread community

criticism regarding the treatment of Haitians.

"This issue is far too complex to believe that with one wave of a wand

the solution to South Florida's immigration problems will be found," Mack

said. "But there are some concerns that can be immediately addressed."

Mack said he will review the Immigration and Naturalization Service's

parole policy, with an eye toward making it more fair and consistent, question
the government's assumption that all Haitians are economic refugees and work

to improve conditions in Haiti.

Refugee advocates have complained that Haitians are detained as long as a year,
even though they have relatives in the United States and organizations

willing to sponsor them. Lawyers have also pleaded for the establishment of an
independent oversight board.

The three men also met with the immigration service's Miami District

Director Richard Smith.

Smith defended his parole policy, saying he has often liberalized the

criteria by releasing detainees to immediate family members or other close

relatives.

Lawyers argue that Smith broadens the policy only when Krome is crowded

and refuses to release Haitians to sponsorship organizations.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE / REGIONAL NEWS. Story ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 5, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RESCUED CUBAN MOVED TO KROME CENTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 227 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Cuban refugee who survived eight grueling days at sea with no food or

water was transported from a Fort Pierce hospital to the Krome Detention

Center late Thursday to decide whether he will be released.

Jesus Francisco Gordillo Pereira, 31, was stabilized at Lawnwood Regional
Medical Center before an ambulance from the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service drove him to Miami around midnight Thursday, hospital

spokesman Janie Hellstrom said.

Lawnwood physicians treated Pereira for dehydration, sunburn and

abrasions and said he was doing "remarkably well" for a man who had spent

eight days on an inner tube without nourishment, Hellstrom said.

Although Pereira had a passport and names of U.S. relatives tucked inside his
underwear, INS officials said it is standard to take all foreign refugees to
Krome for processing before deciding if they should be deported or

released.

Pereira was rescued by an 82-foot Coast Guard ship 39 miles off the Fort Pierce
Inlet Thursday. His only English words were, "I saw death, I saw

death," crewmen said.

The refugee had a faint heartbeat and very low blood pressure but eagerly drank
a cup of water that crewmen gave him on the ship. He remained at

Lawnwood for about seven hours before doctors decided it was safe for him to

make the trip to Miami.

INS officials did not return phone calls Friday to comment on Pereira's

condition.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 15, 1992 Wednesday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

BELLE GLADE CONSIDERS 480-BED FEDERAL DETENTION CENTER

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


City commissioners took their first look Tuesday at plans for a federal

detention center for to house 480 men and women for the U.S. Marshal's Service
and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Federal and local officials also discussed plans Tuesday for two other

proposed detention centers in South Bay.

The three detention centers eventually could house 730 adults and 60

juveniles.

The INS detainees would be deportable -- convicted felons, some of whom are in
the country illegally. Inmates housed by the Marshal's Service would be

awaiting trial.

The two facilities in South Bay would be used to house non-criminal people who
lack proper immigration papers.

Officials said the facilities are needed to relieve crowded conditions at other
Florida detention centers.

"We're currently housing prisoners from South Florida all the way from

Miami to Bay County" in the Panhandle, said Jim Simmons of the Marshal's

Service. "I'm sure that by the time this facility comes on line, it will be

filled."

INS alone could fill the 480-bed prison, which is being designed as a

maximum security facility, said Michael Rozos, supervisory detention and

deportation officer for INS.

Tripp Construction Co. will build the $11 million facility on 170 acres on West
Sugar House Road, east of Airport Park, if the city can get the land from the
state.

City Manager Lomax Harrelle said he has given top priority to getting the

land from Prison Rehabilitative Industries and Diversified Enterprises, which
owns the property.

National Corrections Management Inc. would finance, build and operate the

facility, which would be owned by the city.

The economies of Belle Glade and South Bay would benefit from the centers, said
NCMI President Bob Turner.

Turner originally approached Belle Glade with the idea of using the city

police department building and old jail as a core for the facility, but he

said architects decided it would be too costly.

Tripp said the Belle Glade center would be one story, with inmates living in
two-person cells or dormitories, depending on their custody status.

Harrelle said the city is also planning to renovate the city airport, which is
within walking distance of the proposed detention center. Federal officials said
inmates could be flown into the area.

Turner's original proposal to South Bay was to build a single detention

center on 41/4 acres the city owns near the wastewater treatment plant. But

Rozos said the juvenile facility would have to be built separately.

Rozos said juveniles are housed at two privately operated facilities in

Miami.

The children and about 250 adults will be housed in modular housing units

designed and built in Atlanta by Space Master Buildings, which had

representatives at the afternoon meeting.

The juvenile facility would be built on the city-owned land. The adult

facility would be built on 26 acres of the Brady property, a 173-acre state-

owned tract the city has been trying to acquire for low-cost housing and

other development.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 8, 1989 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ST. LUCIE MINORITIES TO GET SPECIAL ATTENTION IN CENSUS

BYLINE: By Jim Reeder, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


St. Lucie County may lose thousands of dollars in state and federal money

because Haitians and other immigrants aren't included in population estimates
used to distribute the funds, officials say.

"We feel this is one reason the state and federal goverments don't look

favorably on helping us," County Commissioner Jim Minix said.

County and U.S. Census officials said they would make a special effort

next year to include immigrants in the county's official population figures

from the 1990 Census.

"It's important to determine how many you have in St. Lucie County,"

Census Bureau spokesman Neva Spann-Kirkland said. "Census data is used to

allocate funds and assess housing needs.

"We're making a concered effort in 1990 to count blacks, Hispanics and

Caribbean refugees. In1980 there was an undercount of certain segments of the
population.

"Many people, such as undocumented workers, fear being counted. The

toughest job is convincing them census data is confidential."

Fort Pierce officials once attempted a special count of the estimated

10,000 Haitian immigrants in the city, but the effort was dropped after the

census takers met with hostility from the people they were trying to count.

"We'll have someone who's worked as a migrant laborer to visit those

camps."

In addition to possible financial benefits of a higher population count,

the census will be used to reapportion the state Legislature and draw new

congressional districts.

Officials expect Florida to gain four seats in the U.S. House of

Representatives.

the census, required by the U.S. Constitution to be taken every 10 years, will
also mean temporary employment for some residents.

A Fort Pierce district office will hire about 200 people. Spann-Kirkland said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 30, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FATE OF IMMIGRANT WORKERS ARGUED AT SUPREME COURT

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On the windswept plaza outside the U.S. Supreme Court, the Rev. Frank

O'Loughlin summed up the stakes Monday for thousands of immigrant farmworkers
whose fate had been argued minutes earlier inside.

If the Immigration and Naturalization Service wins its appeal over the

handling of applications for special agricultural worker status, the

immigrants will "remain in the underground, and they're as exploitable as

ever, and we continue to have this ghastly industry where all the workers are at
risk.

"We go on with the old system where all these workers are beyond

protection," said O'Loughlin, director of migrant ministries for the five-

county Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach. "Where I feed them, where

they live in squalid housing, where they live outside medical care, where

we'll continue to have child labor problems-- we'll continue to have the

whole, ghastly, harvest of shame."

Minutes earlier, Miami attorney Ira Kurzban had urged the justices to

uphold the rulings of District Judge C. Clyde Atkins and the 11th Circuit

Court of Appeals, which condemned INS' procedures and ordered new

constitutional protections for undocumented workers seeking special status.

The Palm Beach diocese's Migration and Refugee Services, run by

O'Loughlin; the Miami-based Haitian Refugee Center Inc.; and 17 immigrants

originally denied the status were the respondents in the case brought by the

INS in an effort to overturn the two lower court rulings.

The rulings forced the INS to reopen 20,278 cases in Florida, Georgia and
Alabama. Since then, 11,558 of those immigrants-- including the 17 named in

the original suit-- have received special worker status, but the remaining

workers-- and hundreds of thousands more throughout the country -- remain at

risk, Kurzban said.

A ruling on this case also could affect the rights of almost 300,000

illegal immigrants nationwide. Seven lower court cases across the country have
been stayed awaiting the decision.

Kurzban told the justices that the INS had engaged in a "pattern of

practices" that denied the immigrants-- many of them Haitians who spoke only

Creole-- their constitutional rights of due process.

Elements of that pattern included a refusal to provide translators and

transcripts of review hearings, a refusal to let the immigrants rebut

testimony or present witnesses and a compilation of a secret list of employers
that the agency suspected of fraud. Immigrants who supplied the names of those
employers were routinely denied worker status.

That denial meant the immigrants could not legally work or remain in the

United States and were subject to deportation.

Court may reject rulings

Michael R. Dreeben, assistant to the solicitor general, argued that the

high court should reject the lower courts' rulings because Congress never

intended for the courts to meddle in the procedural aspects of determining

worker status.

Dreeben told the justices that as part of the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, Congress intended the INS to process the applications for

residency and work status of 3.1 million immigrants then living illegally in

the United States. As part of that process, he said, judicial reviews were

limited solely to individual deportation orders.

The justices questioned what would happen to immigrants not granted the

status and whether that status conferred constitutional rights on them.

Afterward, Kurzban expressed optimism about the court's decision.

"We hope as a result of the argument today that the rights of (immigrant)
farmworkers throughout the United States will be vindicated-- to be entitled

to have a fair hearing on claims that Congress intended them to have."This

case, from the beginning . . . was about the right of fair procedures," he

said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 10, 1990 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

TRAIN MIGRANT WORKERS' CHILDREN FOR SKILLED WORK

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 243 words


Many Americans have conveniently forgotten that their forebears were

immigrant minorities who were shunned and derisively called derogatory names.
These immigrants dug canals; built railroads; manned factories, steel mills

and sweat shops; cleaned homes; mined coal; built roads; and harvested timber.
Everything was done with brute manual labor. They also had their share of

payday drunks and fist-fighters.

Our compulsory schools transformed their children into Americans. It is

sad to note that the grandchildren and great-grandchildren have rejected their
heritage and now look down on unskilled immigrants such as migrant laborers,

dishwashers and construction laborers. They make things as difficult for them as
it was for their forebears.

Today, manual labor has, for the most part, been replaced by mechanized

and/or computerized equipment. Business and industry face a shortage of

skilled entry-level employees. They want the Immigration Department to admit

more skilled people. Why not concentrate on educating the children of our

large underclass? We could, and should, educate the underclass children to

become productive members of our country.

This would have tremendous economic benefits for the country. I'm not

talking about our present shallow and uninspiring high school curricula but

converting to basic trade skills that would be much more rewarding to the

students by providing a sense of accomplishment to less motivated teens.

George H. Rowe

Hobe Sound\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 25, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

500 DETAINED IN U.S.-MEXICO BORDER RAID

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, MEXICO


U.S. and Mexican authorities riding horses, all-terrain vehicles and

helicopters rounded up about 500 suspected illegal aliens and drug traffickers
in raids on both sides of the border, news reports said.

About 50 U.S. agents swept down to the north bank of the Tijuana River's

concrete-lined channel, the San Diego Union quoted U.S. officials as saying,

and took about 350 suspected undocumented aliens into custody.

Meanwhile, officers from city, state and federal police departments in

Tijuana waited south of the border as hundreds of people fled up the south

bank and through holes in the chain-link border fence, the paper said

Thursday.

Mexican police arrested about 150 suspected alien smugglers and drug

dealers, the paper quoted Capt. Fernando Jimenez of the Tijuana Police

Department as saying.

Authorities carried out the raids near the San Ysidro crossing about 6

miles west of the proposed site of a border ditch that U.S. officials say

would help stop illegal border crossings. The plan has fueled controversy in

the United States, offended many Mexicans and aggravated border relations.

News reports described Thursday's raids as one of the largest such

operations in recent years. The Mexico-City based Excelcior news service said
the raid lasted 45 minutes.

"There is a lot of bandit activity and drug dealing down on the levee

itself," the paper quoted U.S. Border Patrol spokesman Mike Gregg as

saying."Once in a while, we gather our strength and run a sweep."

A temporary shortage of U.S. Border Patrol agents has led increasing

numbers of migrants to cross at the river channel, Border Patrol officials

say.

U.S. authorities found no drugs or weapons, said Frank Wernsing, agent in charge
of the Imperial Beach Border Patrol station.

"We suspect when they realized they were going to be caught, they threw

whatever they had on the ground," he was quoted by the paper as saying.

Gregg said Thursday that most of the 350 suspects would be processed as

undocumented aliens and released in Tijuana overnight.

Jimenez said many of the 150 suspects arrested in Tijuana were held by the
Federal Judicial Police for questioning on drug charges, the newspaper said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 30, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE BARS COUNT OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate endorsed legislation Friday barring the counting of illegal

aliens in the 1990 Census, an action with potential effect on the drawing of

congressional districts and federal aid to areas with large alien populations.
The amendment, offered by Sen. Richard Shelby, D-Ala., would forbid the

use of federal money to count illegal aliens for the purpose of congressional
reapportionment.

It was approved by voice vote and attached to a $17.3 billion

appropriations bill for the Commerce, State and Justice departments after an

amendment to table it was defeated 50-41.

Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said some states with few

illegal aliens are losing seats in Congress because illegal aliens are

included in the population count.

But Sen. Pete Wilson, D-Calif., said many urban areas are affected with a
massive infusion of illegal aliens who are draining available money for

schools and health care.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 12, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PESTICIDE KILLED ALIENS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Five illegal immigrants found dead Tuesday on a train carrying corn flour

from the Mexican border were killed by pesticide poisoning, U.S. law

enforcement officials said Wednesday.

Preliminary autopsies on the five men, all thought to be from Latin

America, indicated they died from internal bleeding associated with exposure

to the pesticide hydrogen phosphide, which is commonly sprayed on corn flour

shipments.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  National News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 25, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RESIDENCY CARD SCAM ALLEGED;
BOYNTON MAN ARRESTED IN FRAUD AGAINST ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


A Boynton Beach man was arrested Monday on charges he sold forged temporary
residence cards to illegal aliens for up to $3,000 each, and U.S. Border

Patrol agents believe his victims may number in the hundreds.

Wilner Jules, 23, of 317 N.E. 10th Ave., a native of Haiti and an

unemployed security guard, was arrested at Miami International Airport on

charges of transferring or producing a false identification document.

Jules was to go before U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac today in West Palm

Beach.

Jules, who has a legal residency card, was being held without bail late

Monday in the Okeechobee County Jail.

Jules took advantage of aliens in Palm Beach and Broward counties in his
document-selling scheme, Chief Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards said Monday.
"He even offered a cut rate to anyone who would bring him several

people at the same time," Richards said.

Jules sold about 20 of the cards per week for about six months to various
foreign citizens, Richards estimates.

He took a car, a video camera and a computer in trade from clients who

didn't have enough cash, Richards said.

"He's taking advantage of people who have nothing to start with,"

Richards said.

"They have limited funds, they're trying to get a job and he's bleeding

them. He took advantage of a captive audience that would never squeal."

The documents are in great demand. With them, illegal aliens can find

employment, get state identification papers, driver licenses and a Social

Security card, Richards said.

With those documents, aliens can enroll children in school and qualify

for various social services.

Jules distributed but didn't make the high-quality cards, Richards said. Border
Patrol agents have not identified the source of the cards.

"There was absolutely no way an employer could identify them as

fraudulent documents," he said. "The quality is so outstanding that even

Border Patrol agents in a hurry could mistake them for genuine."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 16, 1991 Saturday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

MAN WHO SMUGGLED HAITIANS GETS 7 MONTHS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Bahamian man convicted of smuggling 19 Haitians into North Palm Beach was
sentenced Friday to seven months in prison.

Othnell Cary, 57, of Freeport, was arrested in September when a 15-foot

boat carrying the undocumented immigrants, including an 11-month-old boy, ran
out of gas and was spotted off MacArthur Park by the Florida Marine Patrol.

The 13-hour journey ended with all of the Haitians being sent to Krome

Detention in Miami and charged with entering the country illegally. The group
told authorities that they paid $100 to $200 each for the trip.

The boat was trying to reach the Jupiter Inlet, the Haitians told Border

Patrol agents.

U.S. District Judge Norman Roettger also put Cary on supervised release

for three years following his sentence.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 3, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

6 STOWAWAYS DIE IN SHIP CONTAINER

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1041 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Two stowaways from the Dominican Republic endured three days of searing

heat and watched six companions die before they sawed and drilled their way

out of a cargo ship container Tuesday morning, U.S. Border Patrol officials

said.

Raul Mena, 24, of San Carlos and Daniel Fernandez, 18, of Barrio Capotillo
appeared to be in good condition, Border Patrol spokesman Neal Richards said.
Smugglers put the eight men, all from the Dominican Republic, into the 40-
foot-long, 8-by-8-foot container Saturday night at Puerto Plata, Richards

said.

The next day, the container ship Tropic Reign, based at the Port of Palm Beach
and owned by Tropical Shipping and Construction Company Ltd., left the

Dominican port.

Three days into the journey, conditions became unbearable in the container
filled with clothing. They began their escape from the plywood and Fiberglas

container before dawn. It was daybreak when they finally crawled out.

"The two men said it was hellish in there, and they had no air and were

frying alive," Richards said. "They said they knew they were going to die if

they didn't get out."

They used a hand drill to make 50 to 60 holes in the container's side.

They then sawed between each hole before punching free, he said. The opening

was 12 inches by 8 inches.

The men said they were weak and had to take turns making holes. They

tried unsuccessfully to get air from a small crack in the container's floor,

Richards said.

After Fernandez and Mena broke out, they were spotted by crew members who then
found the six bodies, Richards said.

Officials did not know how long the victims had survived before

suffocating, although the men said at least one of their companions was alive
when they started trying to drill their way out.

Fernandez and Mena were taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami, where

they will have a hearing on whether they should be allowed to stay in the

country.

The victims' names won't be released until relatives are notified, the

Border Patrol said. All of the victims appeared to be in their 20s.

Border Patrol agents will search about 200 other containers on the ship

for additional bodies, Richards said. The survivors said one of the victims

had told them he had entered the United States illegally three times in ship

containers.

The survivors said they had come to the United States to work, which

caused Dominicans in West Palm Beach to react with anger over the conditions

they say forced people to leave their homeland.

"Our economy is a catastrophe," said Encarnacion Maireni, a travel agent

from Santo Domingo who is in West Palm Beach on business. "Our (economic)

production is at the bottom."

He said the deaths were "only the latest link in a long chain."

Ramon Gonzalez, a mechanic in West Palm Beach, said Dominicans are

"starving to death, just like the Cubans who are leaving Cuba."

He blamed politics as part of the nation's problems.

"Our president is 84 years old, blind, can't hear and doesn't function

all of the time," he said, speaking of longtime President Joaquin Balaguer.

Immigration officials said they receive few reports of stowaways hiding on
ships, with resulting deaths even rarer. But people who work in Florida ports
say container smuggling has become quite common.

"I've heard of stowaways being in everything you can imagine," said one

shipping company worker at the Port of Palm Beach who didn't want his name

used.

"They usually get in ones where there is food so they can eat on the trip over,"
he said. "It's very easy. I could hide out for a year on one of these

big ships and never get caught."

Richards agreed.

"We've found them here in recent years, but they haven't been deceased,"

he said. "A lot of them work here, go back to their own country for a while

and then come back here again."

Florida and other East Coast states are the most common destinations for

stowaways, officials said. But compared with the number of people who

illegally cross U.S. borders every year, the number of stowaway cases is

relatively small. Most people walk or hide in vehicles, they said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service annually arrests more than 1

million people who have entered the country illegally, but it records only

about 1,000 stowaway incidents every year, said Vern Jervis, spokesman for

Washington's INS office.

Florida's Border Patrol, which concentrates its efforts on tracking

illegal residents convicted as drug smugglers, admits that few of those

smuggled in are caught.

"Florida is almost becoming a sanctuary for them," Richards said.

The local Border Patrol has four men to cover eight counties and 120 miles of
coastline, Richards said.

Congressman Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, said Tuesday that he will

continue to work for more Border Patrol agents in Florida to adequately deal

with the growing problem of illegal aliens.

"I'm continuing my efforts to convince INS that from a practical

standpoint, Florida's liquid borders are no different than those of Mexico and
Canada," Lewis said.

* Staff writers Jodi Mailander and Bill Douthat contributed to this story.
FLIGHTS ENDING IN TRAGEDY

Some of the highest death tolls recorded during efforts to come to the United
States:

* OCTOBER 1981 - Thirty-three Haitian refugees drown after their leaky, 25-

foot wooden sailboat breaks up in rough surf less than a half-mile from

Hillsboro Beach. Another 34 aboard survived.

* SEPTEMBER 1980 - Twenty-two Dominicans bound for Miami drown before their

ship even leaves the dock at Santo Domingo.

* MARCH 1982 - Twenty-one Haitians drown when the Esperancia breaks up and

sinks off Boca Raton.

* SEPTEMBER 1980 - Three Haitian refugees drown when their crowded sailboat

capsizes during a Coast Guard rescue attempt off Miami. Some of the 103

survivors say 17 others died during their two-week voyage.

* JULY 1987 - Eighteen illegal immigrants trapped in a locked steel-walled

boxcar are found dead in 120-degree Texas heat.

* JANUARY 1979 - Eighteen Haitians are feared dead when their 18-foot boat

capsizes off Andros Island in the Bahamas.

* JULY 1980 - Thirteen illegal immigrants from El Salvador, including nine

women and a 13-year-old boy, die when border smugglers leave them without

water in the Arizona desert.

* AUGUST 1983 - California hay-truck crash kills 11 men trying to flee

authorities.

Source: Palm Beach Post library records.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Information box at end of text / Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C AND B&W) AND MAP
 (1/C) BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer Daniel Fernandez, 18 (left), and Raul
Mena, 24, survived. (2/C) BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer An investigator studies
the hole the two survivors drilled and punched through the plywood and Fiberglas
wall of the container. (3/B&W) BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer A hearse leaves
the Port of Palm Beach with some of the victims who died in the cargo container.
(4) Map by VIVIEN RIPPE / Staff Artist

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 13, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3 UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS DISCOVERED

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


When Palm Beach police got a call Wednesday morning that undocumented

aliens had jumped ship entering the Palm Beach Inlet, they rushed to the north
end of the island and found three Mexican men and their baggage.

But Armando Aguilar-Torres, 25, his brother Jose, 28, and cousin Luis

Ortega-Auguilar, 36, all of Zacatecas, Mexico, didn't swim ashore, said U.S.

Border Patrol spokesman Matt Zetts. They had arrived by bus in West Palm Beach
from Atlanta and gotten lost on their way to see a relative in Jupiter, he

said. They were taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami for deportation

hearings.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 5, 1992 Thursday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

SOUTH BAY SEEKS DETENTION CENTER TO HOUSE 1,000

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: SOUTH BAY


A private detention center that would employ 300 people and house up to

1,000 illegal aliens awaiting deportation could be in operation in three

months under a proposal presented to city commissioners.

City commissioners agreed Tuesday night to enter an agreement with National
Corrections Management Inc. to seek a contract with the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service to operate the center.

Corrections Management President Robert Turner, former superintendent of

Glades Correctional Institution, said he doesn't know yet how many beds INS

will need but it could be 1,000.

The cost of building the center has not been determined.

Turner said about half of the employees must be bilingual in Spanish or

Creole because most of the prisoners would be Hispanic or Haitian.

He said similar centers are in operation in Houston and Laredo, Texas, and just
outside John F. Kennedy Airport in New York. It would be located on 4.25 acres
of city-owned property on Northwest First Avenue near the wastewater

treatment plant.

"I was in touch with them yesterday though," Turner said, "and they

asked if we could include a facility for minors. They wanted to know if they

could send 150 teenagers up next week.

"I told them the city of South Bay moves fast, but not that fast."

Turner said the facility wouldn't cost the city anything but the land and

it would result in jobs and other benefits for the city.

He said the center would be an addition to Krome Detention Center in Miami,
holding persons who had illegally entered the country. It would not act as a

deportation center like Krome.

The center would be in addition to a 400-prisoner detention center Turner

earlier proposed to set up in Belle Glade and would hold different types of

prisoners.

Turner said the Belle Glade facility would hold pre-trial prisoners for the U.S.
Marshal's Service and felons whom INS intends to deport.

"Clearly, I think this is a very good project," said Mayor Clarence

Anthony, "and is something I'm interested in pursuing.

"I'm not supportive of the federal policy of sending many of these people

back," Anthony said, "but it could help provide a decent place for them to

reside while they are here. It would also provide employment for the

community."

Police Chief Roy Humston said he once worked in a federal detention center and
they are well-kept and clean.

The commissioners unanimously agreed to the proposal.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 6, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' HOODWINKED' HOSPITAL FREES STOWAWAY, 44

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


One of nine stowaways rescued from a cargo container at the Port of Palm

Beach on Monday walked out of St. Mary's Hospital after convincing officials

he was healthy enough to leave, a hospital spokesman said Tuesday.

The 44-year-old from the Dominican Republic, who spoke English, told a

nurse he felt well enough to be released, hospital spokesman David Feng said. He
was discharged just before 9 p.m. Monday.

"He basically hoodwinked us by saying his family was outside waiting for

him," Feng said.

A guard was with several other stowaways in the emergency room at the time the
man signed out, so there was no one there to detain him, Feng said.

The man, who said his name was Marcos Bonilla, is being sought by the

Border Patrol.

Because the man escaped from the hospital, he will get a deportation

hearing if he is caught, Chief Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards said. But the
other stowaways, because they were found on a ship in port and not on American
soil, will not get hearings, Richards said.

Two of the five stowaways treated at St. Mary's and four others treated at
Humana Hospital left for the Dominican Republic on Tuesday aboard The Tropical
Night, the same container ship they arrived on, Tropical Shipping and

Construction Co. Ltd. spokeswoman Karen Foster said.

The remaining two at St. Mary's are under guard and were to leave for

their homeland today after being released from the hospital, Foster said.

The nine stowaways were in a cargo container for three days. The

temperature inside the sealed container exceeded 100 degrees, rescuers said.

All nine were treated for dehydration.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 5, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROBERT TO BE RELEASED TODAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 144 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, MINN.


Former Detroit Red Wings player Bob Probert is scheduled to be released

Monday after serving a three-month prison term on a cocaine smuggling charge.
Probert can leave the Federal Medical Center in Rochester as early as 8:30 a.m.,
said John Chreno, executive assistant to the warden.

Following his release, Probert is scheduled to spend three months at a

halfway house designated by a federal court.

Attorneys for Probert have appealed an immigration judge's order that the former
NHL All-Star be deported when he is released from prison. His attorneys say
Probert will seek permission to play professional hockey in the United

States while appealing the deportation order, because of economic necessity.

As a Canadian national, Probert was subject to deportation because of the drug
conviction. Immigration Judge Anthony Petrone in Chicago on Jan. 2

ordered Probert deported.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 1, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REHNQUIST: JUDICIAL PAY HIKE A BIG HELP ON RISING CASELOADS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Chief Justice William Rehnquist says a 25 percent pay hike for federal

judges will help them cope with a sharply rising caseload of drug crimes and

bankruptcies.

In his year-end report on the federal court system, Rehnquist noted that

the courts' budget for the current fiscal year has topped $2 billion for the

first time.

This growing federal caseload, "fueled by drug cases and an ever-rising

tide of personal bankruptcies," is sure to require even greater spending in

the future, the chief justice of the Supreme Court said in the report released
Monday.

Drug prosecutions in federal courts rose 6 percent in 1990, Rehnquist

said, "while filings for violations of weapons and immigration laws climbed

more than 23 percent each as the Immigration and Naturalization Service and

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms used their expanded resources to

attack drug networks."

Rehnquist said Congress "averted a crisis" by providing, as of today, a

25 percent pay hike for all federal judges.

The pay raise boosts the chief justice's annual salary from $124,000 to

$155,000. The salaries of the Supreme Court's eight associate justices rise

from $118,600 to $148,300.

Salaries for federal appellate judges jump from $102,500 to $120,800; and for
federal trial judges from $96,600 to $111,136.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 31, 1992 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HAITIAN GETS FIVE YEARS IN DRUG CASE

BYLINE: By MEG JAMES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A deserter from Haiti's army pleaded with a judge for leniency Thursday,

saying he would be killed if immigration officials sent him back to his native
country.

Jean Claude Petion, who has lived in Boynton Beach for several years, was
arrested last week after a police officer recognized him as a wanted man.

Petion, 41, was supposed to serve 40 days in jail last year after pleading
guilty to a cocaine possession charge.

But just before he was to be jailed in December 1990, Petion begged a

judge for a furlough so he could "spend one last holiday with his child."

Circuit Judge Thomas Sholts hesitantly agreed to Petion's request after

Petion promised that he would turn himself in on Jan. 3, 1991.

But Petion never did. And he never served the time.

His attorney, Gary Pickett, said Thursday that Petion reneged on his

pledge because he realized that going to jail would trigger deportation

proceedings.

"I was scared," Petion told Sholts through an interpreter.

"Any time that I go back (to Haiti) I will get killed. They still have my name
with the army," said Petion, who came to the United States in 1980.

Sholts was not swayed by Petion's emotional arguments.

"We are not dealing with his deportation issue at this hearing," the

judge said.

Sholts reminded Petion that he agreed to surrender himself and serve 40

days, or face a five-year prison sentence.

"We agreed on five years," the judge said, just before sentencing Petion

to five years in prison.

"He asked for the privilege and he didn't come back."

Petion's problems started when he was arrested in May 1990 after U.S.

Border Patrol agents questioned him about his immigration status.

While talking to Petion, they noticed cocaine rocks in his car, and

Boynton Beach police later uncovered a cache of 52 large cocaine rocks.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 12, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FORCED RETURN OF 36 IRAQIS MAY VIOLATE KUWAIT'S PACT WITH U.S.

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: ABDALY, KUWAIT


In an apparent violation of an international agreement it signed in March,

Kuwait forcibly repatriated about 36 Iraqi civilians Tuesday.

The internees, including 11 women and six children, were taken from an

immigration detention center in Kuwait City where about 600 people are

reportedly awaiting deportation. They were loaded onto two buses bound for the
border town of Abdaly, where they were to be marched into Safwan, Iraq.

"If I go to Baghdad, they will kill me," said Jafal Musawi, 29, from the

window of the bus. Musawi, a Shiite Muslim, said that he was being forced to

leave.

Kuwait signed a memo of understanding in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in

March, agreeing that neither prisoners of war nor civilian detainees would be
repatriated against their will.

Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United States, Britain and France also signed the
agreement, which was prepared under the auspices of the International

Committee of the Red Cross.

In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher confirmed

that Kuwait had deported a number of Iraqi citizens but said that he could not
confirm that they were sent back against their will.

Also Tuesday, Defense Department officials said that because of the

complexity of dismantling the Persian Gulf war machine, some U.S. National

Guard and reserve troops will remain on active duty through the end of the

year.

Of 228,000 reservists activated for the Gulf War, officials said,

about 62,000 of them remain on active duty, including 21,000 in the gulf area.
Iranian leaders, charging that Iraqi forces are preparing to unleash a

massive attack on Shiite Muslim refugees in southern Iraq, Tuesday asked the

United Nations to intervene and protect the refugees.

U.S. officials said, however, they are regarding "with extreme

skepticism" the Iranian allegations of a pending Iraqi offensive.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 20, 1991 Friday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

BELLE GLADE CONSIDERS JAIL-FOR-PROFIT OFFER

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


The city and a private firm may renovate the 40-year-old city jail to use

as part of a detention complex that could hold up to 400 federal prisoners.

The project would yield about $500,000 profit annually for the city, $1

million of construction for local contractors, and 125 to 500 permanent jobs, an
official with the firm said.

The commission approved an agreement Wednesday with former Glades

Correctional Institution Superintendent Robert Turner, who represents

National Corrections Management Inc., to look into the proposed project.

Under the agreement, NCMI will begin a study to determine whether the jail can
be rebuilt to American Correctional Association standards at a price that would
bring in a profit from detaining prisoners for the U.S. Justice

Department.

The federal government pays local jails to hold its prisoners. The amount varies
from center to center, and Turner did not say how much the company

expects to earn annually from the project.

Turner told the commissioners that federal marshals and the Immigration

and Naturalization Service have to take pre-trial prisoners as far away as

Bradenton because of lack of detention centers. Federal suspects from Fort

Pierce to north Dade County would be held in the proposed detention center.

He said the prisoners, whose average stay would be two weeks, primarily

would be those accused of white-collar crimes, drug charges or immigration

violations.

Turner said that nationwide, federal prisoners are held mainly in county

jails. But county jails in South Florida are so crowded there isn't room for

many federal prisoners, he said.

STUDY READY IN 30 DAYS

The city and NCMI could back out of the agreement before the detention

center becomes reality, but Turner said the study of the old jail will be

complete in about 30 days and it could be in use in a year.

NCMI's companies would handle financing, design and construction and would
manage the facility, all under city supervision but at no cost to the city,

Turner said. The city would continue to own the jail and would get a

percentage of the money the federal government pays.

NCMI needs the city's involvement because the U.S. Marshal and immigration
services don't hire private corporations for detentions. The city would sign a
contract with the federal government offering to house the inmates.

If the initial study shows the project is feasible, Turner and D. Bill

Mathis, former city police chief and city manager who works with Turner, said
the jail would be gutted. Only the floors, walls and roof would remain.

JAIL USED FOR STORAGE

Turner said NCMI could build a new facility quicker and more cheaply and is
considering the renovation only as an enticement to lure the city into the

agreement. The jail has been used for storage since 1982 and could be put to

better use, Mathis said.

"The walls are solid," Mathis said. "They're 40 years old and 8 inches

thick in places. If you hit them with a sledgehammer, the hammer would bounce
back at you pretty fast."

The jail was built in 1951 and additions were made in 1959 and 1965. It

held an average of 65 prisoners a day until city courts were eliminated in

1975.

It was used from 1977 to 1982 to house county prisoners, until the new

county jail in Belle Glade was built. It also housed prisoners being

transferred from one state prison to another.

Mathis said about 100 prisoners could be housed in the old jail, but NCMI would
eventually want to use the police department, which is connected to the jail,
and possibly the old city hall and fire department. The backs of those

departments face the back of the jail, at 33 W. Ave. A.

City commissioners have planned for some time to move the Police

Department to the municipal complex at 110 S.W. Second Ave. but hasn't been

able to afford the move and new building.

Commissioner Steve Weeks said the profit from the center could be used to make
the move.

"The renovation, new jobs and the extra revenue makes the offer

attractive," Weeks said. "Belle Glade doesn't have much to offer right

now."

ALTERNATE SITE AVAILABLE

City Manager Lomax Harrelle said the city is close to acquiring 200 acres of
state-owned land east of Airport Park. He said part of the NCMI complex

could be built there.

Turner said NCMI is the nation's third-largest construction company and

the largest builder of detention facilities. He said the company is building

or recently completed jails in Daytona Beach, Seminole County and Raleigh,

N.C.

There are three facilities in the nation that are similar to what he is

proposing, none owned or operated by NCMI, Turner said. Those three are in Big
Spring, Texas, Charles Falls, R.I., and Tennessee.

Another company discussed for several months a similar facility with

Sheriff Richard Wille, but those talks broke down. Turner said two other

cities in the area are interested in such a facility, but Belle Glade would a
better choice.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 16, 1992 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BELLE GLADE MAY TURN CITY JAIL INTO FEDERAL DETENTION FACILITY

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


Architects began preliminary work Wednesday on a project to renovate the

40-year-old City Jail after city commissioners reached a tentative deal

Tuesday with a private firm to open the facility as a pre-trial detention

center for federal inmates.

Commissioners will vote Jan. 27 on whether to formally enter an agreement with
National Corrections Management, Inc.

The commission agreed in December to start work on the project to renovate

the City Jail. But concerns of commissioners and City Attorney John Baker

delayed work.

The concerns were apparently answered to commissioners' satisfaction in a
two-hour workshop meeting Tuesday night. Following the meeting, NCMI president
Bob Turner predicted the agreement would be approved.

Turner, a former superintendent at Glades Correctional Institution, said

the detention facility would house as many as 400 prisoners facing trials in

federal courts from Fort Pierce to northern Dade County.

Turner said the project would yield about $500,000 annually in profits and
generate $1 million of construction business for local contractors and 125 to
150 permanent jobs.

Turner said most inmates would be illegal aliens or those accused of white

collar crimes and violations of drug abuse laws. An inmate's average stay at

the facility would be two weeks.

Baker was primarily concerned with a provision of the agreement that says the
city and NCMI would be responsible for paying their respective expenses.

Turner had said Dec. 19 that the city would have no expenses that wouldn't be
reimbursed. Baker said the city has already incurred expenses, his legal

fees, and may face others.

Turner said the city could be reimbursed for expenses under the agreement

but asked that they be held to a reasonable level to prevent driving up the

overall cost of the project.

He said his company would not agree to turn money over to the city to spend on
expenses, as Baker suggested, because that would amount to a blank check.

The commissioners couldn't approve what is being called a "teaming"

agreement with NCMI Tuesday because they were meeting in a workshop. Baker

wanted a new motion to approve the agreement.

Former City Manager Bill Mathis, who is working with Turner on the

project, said that if an analysis shows the center would be a profitable

venture, NCMI should be ready to sign a management contract with the city in

45 to 50 days.

NCMI would manage the facility but needs to work through the city because

the U.S. Marshal's Service and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
will not contract with private businesses to house their inmates.

Baker said he was concerned because the city agreed several years ago to

cooperate in the Palm Glade apartment complex with the understanding that it

would cost the city nothing. The city has had to pay $250,000 in legal fees,

he said.

"I wish we hadn't followed that housing project," Turner said. ' ' We have every
reason to be partners and no reason to be adversarial."

Turner also said he doubted the company would go along with a suggestion by
Commissioner Bill Bailey that the city's financial consultants be given half

the financing business.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/BAKER, JOHN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 2, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EXILES' PLAN TO BEAM TV SIGNAL TO CUBA THREATENED BY FCC

BYLINE: By SERGIO LOPEZ-MIRO, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Federal officials are threatening legal action against a Cuban exile group

that plans to beam anti-Castro propaganda into Cuba using a pirate television
station, according to one of the station's organizers.

Unless the exiles' plan is scrapped, the Federal Communications Commission also
intends to seize their high-powered transmitter and the 50-foot fishing

boat that the group intends to use as a base station, said Huber Matos Jr., a
spokesman for the exiles. Members of the group fear they could face

deportation, he said.

John L. Theimer, who heads the FCC's operations bureau in Miami, confirmed that
the agency had issued a warning but declined to say what specific actions would
be taken.

"If they operate from a U.S. vessel, they will be in violation of the

Communications Act of 1934 as amended," Theimer said. "If they operate from

a vessel of a foreign registry, then they are subject to international treaty
violations either from us or Cuba, whoever elects to take action . . . My

understanding is that if someone who is a resident alien is found in

violation, that's something (immigration officials) would have to take care

of."

Organizers of the pirate station, called Tele-CID, had planned to begin

broadcasting Wednesday. Matos wouldn't say how the FCC's threat will affect

the plans.

"It's possible we may have to delay the launching, or speed it up,"

Matos said Monday. "I don't want to make our options public. We are

consulting with different lawyers to explore the avenues we have available,

including going to court."

Matos said the FCC's decision to block the telecasts was not expected.

Tele-CID should be considered no different than TV Marti, the federal

government's proposed station that would beams broadcasts into Cuba, he said.
Unlike the moderate tone of the federal government's proposed programming,
Tele-CID officials have said its telecasts will pull no punches.

"We don't pretend to broadcast to Cuba using the parameters of CBS or NBC or the
BBC," Matos said last week. "It's another mentality-- a guerrilla

mentality. Our goal is not to entertain. We must confront the regime with

Cuba's reality-- its abuses, injustices, corruption and wastes."

The million-watt pirate station is headed by Matos' father, Comandante

Huber Matos, the Cuban revolutionary hero who stood up to his former comrade,
Fidel Castro, only months after he seized power in 1959.

An FCC official last week had said Tele-CID "could be a loose cannon

circumstance that could have the effect of escalating . . . the sensitivity

that already exists between the United States and Cuba on the issue of

broadcasting."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 6, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LINVILLE TENANTS OUSTED, BUT 1 FAMILY STRANDED

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Chi Luu Linville's tenants were evicted Friday from their court-condemned

apartments, but, by evening, Isais Sanchez, his wife and 5-day-old baby still
had no place to live.

Eating unrefrigerated mayonnaise from a jar with a knife, Sanchez, 26,

said he had no idea where he would live after he moved out of his home of

eight months at 4462 Davis Road in suburban Lake Worth.

But Lee Pasley, a 61-year-old pensioner from Lake Worth, said he would

gladly help the family find a home.

Pasley, who had remained an anonymous benefactor until Friday, had

arranged for about 25 people to stay at a motel west of Boynton Beach by

Friday night.

When Linville saw that Sanchez was still at the complex of run-down, wood- frame
buildings west of Congress Avenue an hour and a half after the noon

eviction deadline, she agreed to drive him to a job prospect.

His belongings, including a worn volume of the Santa Biblia, remained

under a tree.

Four of Linville's other Mexican immigrants were picked up by the U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service when they arrived at a nearby labor

camp without documents. They claimed to be in the country legally as seasonal
workers and were released, INS officer Neal Richards said.

The evictions finally took place at noon Friday-- one week after Circuit

Judge Mary E. Lupo ordered the tenants out because of a serious public health
threat from malfunctioning septic tanks on the property.

The 4th District Court of Appeal stayed Lupo's order July 29 but upheld it
Wednesday.

Nonetheless, Linville Friday continued to say that the evictions were

ordered in a coordinated effort to hurt her chances of winning a federal

lawsuit against the city of Lake Worth. City code inspectors condemned a motel
Linville owns on North E Street earlier this year.

"There is no health hazard," she said. "Because I am suing Lake Worth,

(the Palm Beach County Health Department) is trying to prove the point that

I don't take care of my property and don't take care of my dogs," she said.

"I cannot win."

Linville's poodles were seized by county animal regulation inspectors in

April for alleged neglect.

Linville said she is not a slumlord but a landlord willing to rent "to

the undesirables . . . I'm not making a gold mine here."

The 40-year-old Linville ordered some tenants off the property on

Wednesday morning for non-payment of rent. An official notice of eviction for
the whole 15-unit complex was not posted until Thursday.

Linville's lawyer, George N. Konst, said that all but the Sanchez family

had been relocated after Pasley pledged an undisclosed cash contribution to

pay for temporary housing for the families.

"What I did I did out of the generosity of my heart," said Pasley, 61,

of Lake Worth. "I'm a Christian man, and what I own the Lord owns."

Pasley said he arranged for about 25 tenants to move to an undisclosed

motel off Boynton Beach Boulevard west of Florida's Turnpike but that some

were still unaccounted for.

He declined to say how much he donated. "Just say I gave each of them a

loaf of bread."\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 11, 1988 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECAREY, IMC MIXED IN WORLDS OF CONTRAS, SPIES AND THE MOB

BYLINE: By SYDNEY P. FREEDBERG, The Wall Street Journal

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3385 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Miguel Recarey Jr. was a big man in this town. An immigrant from Cuba, he

built a firm called International Medical Centers into America's largest

health-maintenance organization. He knew people, important enough people to be
invited at least three times to the White House.

But last year, Recarey started getting invitations to court. A grand jury
accused him of conspiring to bribe union leaders to get patients for IMC. A

second indictment charged him with running an illegal wiretapping operation. A
third indictment charged him with defrauding the U.S. government.

By this time, Recarey had vanished. His company collapsed. And

investigators found themselves puzzling over what had happened to nearly $1

billion in federal Medicare funds that had poured into IMC since 1981.

The secret doings of Recarey and IMC, an investigation by The Wall Street
Journal shows, lead mysteriously off in a growing, complex maze. For starters: *
Recarey had longstanding business ties to the late Santo Trafficante

Jr., who prosecutors say was the Florida underworld boss.

* Recarey told an associate he had sought a loan from Robert Vesco, the

fugitive I.O.S. Ltd. financier.

* Recarey, a big political contributor, got formal lobbying help from ex- Reagan
aide Lyn Nofziger and informal help from Jeb Bush, the son of Vice

President George Bush.

* Recarey's companies engaged at least a dozen people who had worked in

foreign intelligence. (The resume of one claimed training by both the CIA and
the KGB, plus work for the Cuban intelligence agency.)

* IMC was tied into the private network that sent aid to the Nicaraguan

Contras, and its hospital arranged to treat wounded Contras.

"You may have found where a criminal enterprise may be interfaced with

intelligence operations," says William Teich, who heads the U.S. Office of

Labor Racketeering in Miami. "Probably it was as a result of people

subverting their contacts that they may have had while working in

intelligence."

HIDING IN VENEZUELA

The CIA, following its policy, won't comment on whether Recarey might have had
some intelligence role. Recarey is believed holed up in Venezuela,

unavailable to comment on these facts:

* He and IMC continued getting lucrative federal Medicare contracts

despite long-suspected underworld links and repeated complaints that the HMO

wasn't giving the elderly adequate care.

* Various federal inquiries into Recarey's dealings over a generation went
nowhere, in spite of leads suggesting kickback schemes, tax evasion, illegal

campaign giving, payment of hush money, bribery of public officials, use of

phantom employees, forged HMO enrollments, falsified records and phony

billings.

* Recarey had an easy time skipping the country while under felony

indictment. His passport wasn't taken away, and he got an expedited income-tax
refund of $2.2 million. So far he has proved untouchable abroad.

Adding to the mystery are the personal qualities of Recarey, a man trained as an
accountant-- and known as a marksman. Now 50, he was born into a well-

to-do Cuban family that fled from Castro. Associates say he once had a

serious cocaine problem. Yet for all his machinations, he is open to

manipulation, contends one of his former lawyers, the political consultant

John Sears.

SUPERB MARKSMAN

By all accounts Recarey is a charming fellow with a gift for making people trust
him. But he evidently doesn't trust many of them. While operating IMC he had a
secret code name, Pluma Blanca -- or White Feather-- that his security

people used when referring to him. He traveled with armed bodyguards and told
confidants he feared assassination, especially by poison. Recarey's bedroom, a
former security chief said, had bulletproof windows and a door of steel.

He also felt safer with his Heckler & Koch 9mm pistol, which he

customarily packed under his jacket. In his million-dollar estate near Miami, he
kept a cache of Uzis, Colt AR-15s and at least one AK47 assault rifle. "I

don't think I ever saw a civilian who was as accurate with a weapon as

Miguel," says Roberto Sasso, a former Secret Service agent who guarded him.

WASHINGTON CONTACTS

Recarey was open about his political contributions, most notably to Jimmy
Carter, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Claude Pepper. Recarey or his

associates gave at least $45,000 to the Democratic Party and Carter campaign

in 1980, and at least $20,000 to Vice President Bush's political-action

committee in 1985-86.

And when Recarey needed lobbyists, he aimed high: He hired Nofziger and

the firm of Black, Manafort, Stone-- also well connected in the White House;

each drew about $400,000 from his businesses. When IMC needed a lawyer, it

picked Sears, a onetime Reagan campaign manager, paying his firm about

$306,000.

When it needed a real-estate consultant, it hired Jeb Bush, son of the

vice president, paying his firm $75,000 though it closed no deals. Recarey

also hired more than a dozen former officials of a federal Cabinet department
(Health and Human Services) that sent IMC tens of millions of dollars each

month to care for Medicare patients as it saw fit.

As its chief of staff, IMC hired Juan del Real, who had been general

counsel of HHS. For a press aide Recarey hired del Real's wife, Claire, who

was a press aide at HHS. And he knew how to write a paycheck: Starting salary
for del Real was $325,000 a year and a $40,000 car allowance, for his wife

$130,000 and a $12,000 car allowance.

Del Real says that he and his wife did nothing wrong by accepting good

jobs at IMC, and that he didn't take part in any IMC business while at HHS.

After leaving government, he says, he was careful not to discuss IMC business
with his former HHS colleagues for a year.

RACKETEER CONNECTIONS

His Washington contacts gave Recarey a certain access, as evidenced by his
invitations to several gatherings at the Reagan White House. (Even in the

corridors of power, though, he did things his way. In April 1985 he punched

two Saudi men, one a diplomat, outside a Washington hotel. Charged with

assault, he pleaded self defense and won acquittal.)

Politics was not the only world to which Recarey gained entry. As far back as
the 1960s, he had ties with reputed racketeers who had operated out of pre-
Castro Cuba and who later forged an anti-Castro alliance with the CIA.

The most notable was the late Trafficante, whom prosecutors termed the

head of the Florida mob and of an international narcotics empire. Several

Recarey associates say Trafficante helped out when Recarey needed business

financing.

Then there was Alberto Inocente Alvarez, a Robert Vesco lieutenant who,

the Securities and Exchange Commission said, helped install the fugitive

financier in Costa Rica in the early 1970s. Alvarez shared a yacht with

Recarey and invested $200,000 in a Recarey real-estate project, say a former

Recarey lawyer and a Miami police report. And according to Luke Rader, a

doctor and former partner at IMC's hospital, Miami General, Recarey said he

had sought a business loan from Vesco himself.

Recarey also sought financing from an anti-Castro Cuban financier named Rafael
G. Navarro, traveling to see him in London with one of IMC's founders, Fernando
Penabaz, who doubles as a right-wing radio commentator. IMC had been formed to
treat Cuban refugees under a federal program but fell deeply in debt to
Recarey's hospital, and in 1977 Recarey took control of the HMO. He placed both
the hospital and the HMO within a holding company, Recarey Enterprises

Inc., which grew to include numerous companies.

FILING FOR MEDICARE

To win a share of federal Medicare money, the HMO had to be "qualified"

by what's now the Health and Human Services Department. This could have

presented a problem because of Recarey's background.

For instance, he had failed to file income-tax returns for two straight

years, 1969 and 1970-- even though his resume says he is an accountant. He was
convicted and spent a short time in prison.

In 1964 he was ordered deported because of immigration violations. It

isn't clear whether the order was carried out.

In the early `70s, he left a job as a comptroller of a Miami children's

hospital amid rumors of an embezzlement. No charges were brought, but

investigators say two persons have implicated Recarey, one saying he helped
teach Recarey how to set up shell companies to send the hospital phony

bills.

In addition, Recarey's alleged ties to organized crime had long been part of
South Florida police records. And in 1980, with IMC's Medicare application
pending, the company was being investigated on suspicion of fraud by the

Justice Department and the HHS inspector general.

The HHS investigator, however, was taken off the case. So was an HHS

regulator who had indicated she would reject the application. The

investigation was closed. An HHS team headed by Arthur Goulet then qualified

the health-care company to receive Medicare money.

Five months later, Goulet accepted a job with IMC. He says he never

discussed a job with IMC before ruling on its application and is "100 percent
clean."

He didn't last long at IMC. He says he did an audit, discovering shoddy

medical care and an organization that was basically "a fast-moving shell game
for government inspectors." IMC had some conscientious physicians, but Goulet
says he also found "the sleaziest bunch of non-doctors you could imagine."

Shortly after his audit, he says, he was fired.

HMO COMPLAINTS

The Medicare money started flowing in 1981. Almost from the start, IMC was
criticized. Patients complained of being denied access to specialists or to

hospitalization for serious illnesses. Vendors complained of not being paid.

HHS regulators told of "inaccurate data" and "misleading" marketing

materials at the HMO.

In addition, a Florida state investigator said in a secret 1982 report

that proceeds of some loans Recarey got "are being put in banks outside the

country." Recarey also put on the payroll several people who had only vague

duties, including at least a couple with intelligence backgrounds. Recarey

dismissed IMC's various problems as "growing pains," and complained in 1985

that some associates were cheating him.

Instead of cutting off IMC, HHS added to its take. The department was

trying out a new payment system in which, instead of reimbursing for each

medical procedure, it would give an HMO a flat fee. Though an HMO suspected of
inadequate care might seem the worst candidate for such a program, HHS in 1982
gave IMC a demonstration grant for the new payment system. It began sending

IMC monthly checks for millions of dollars, essentially relying on the HMO's

word that it was treating the elderly adequately with the money.

The department did this over the sharp objections of the regional head of the
agency administering the program. "At stake is the correct and prompt

payment of millions of the taxpayers' dollars, as well as the government's

image in the Miami area," George Holland of the Health Care Financing

Administration's Atlanta office warned in a memo.

RECRUITING IN WASHINGTON

IMC also gained various waivers of HHS rules, among them lucrative waivers that
let the HMO draw more than 50 percent of its revenue from Medicare. C.

McClain Haddow, a top aide to HHS Secretary Margaret Heckler in 1985,

testified to Congress that he approved such a waiver on her instructions

-- after both he and Heckler had received telephone calls from Jeb Bush.

Heckler told Haddow "she had received input from other people outside of the

department . . . from the White House and from other sectors," he testified.

Jeb Bush says he can't remember calling them.

In 1986, a few months after leaving HHS, Haddow became a consultant to

IMC. In 1987, he was convicted of violating federal conflict-of-interest laws in
a case unrelated to IMC.

Heckler, through a spokesman, declined to comment about IMC.

It wasn't until 1986 that the FBI and HHS became seriously interested in

what was being learned about IMC by Don Zell, the Office of Labor Racketeering
agent who finally brought him down. Zell was well equipped to probe such a

tangled subject, having earlier helped unravel several international

narcotics-trafficking cases as a Drug Enforcement Administration agent. By

this time, the business was falling apart, even though it was getting up to

$29 million a month in federal Medicare money.

"IMC is the classic case of embezzlement of government funds," Teich

says. He calls it a "bust-out operation" in which money was "drained out

the back door" and disappeared down "a black hole."

A STEADY SUPPLIER

Looking for new capital, Recarey Enterprises raised $1 million through an
obscure Panama-registered firm called Jumbalaya Investments, with headquarters
in a Swiss bank in the Bahamas. It raised a similar amount for IMC from a

supplier, Calmaquip Engineering Corp.

Calmaquip is a hospital supplier, airport and hotel builder, and provider of
communications gear. It says IMC was just another customer, and the two had no
special relationship.

Yet IMC and its hospital bought nearly all their supplies from Calmaquip, except
food and prescription drugs, in a contract that specifically said the

supplier didn't promise "the best available prices." Calmaquip's chairman,

Raul Gutierrez, was an early investor in the hospital Recarey took over. And

Recarey stored IMC documents at Calmaquip warehouses, along with a stuffed

grizzly bear.

There also is a personnel link between IMC and Calmaquip. Rene Diaz de

Villegas left a Calmaquip executive post in early 1984 to become an executive of
IMC, where he helped negotiate the purchasing agreement-- before returning to
work for Calmaquip.

While at IMC, he engaged a former Calmaquip overseas sales contractor,

Landon K. Thorne III, for a real-estate task. Thorne is an active Marine

reservist serving in an intelligence post under control of the Defense

Intelligence Agency. He says he had no intelligence role before or while he

worked with IMC or Calmaquip. "I'm just a God-fearing financial consultant

trying to earn a living," he says.

Diaz de Villegas also hired for IMC (as a construction supervisor) Jose Basulto,
a veteran of the CIA-sponsored effort to oust Castro 27 years ago. He told of
attending a meeting at IMC's hospital between a top Contra leader,

Adolfo Calero, and Felix Rodriguez, a Basulto friend who worked in Oliver

North's Contra-supply operation. Friends of Basulto say he helped bring

wounded Contras to IMC's hospital for free treatment.

Basulto won't comment to a reporter now, except to say, "You're trying

to hurt the administration." But he gave Calmaquip a statement saying he had

never acted as a CIA operative or had done any intelligence work while at IMC,
nor any related to Calmaquip.

Calmaquip Chairman Gutierrez, who the company says is semiretired,

declined to be interviewed.

POLITICAL CONTACTS

While at IMC, Diaz de Villegas also arranged to have the HMO pay Jeb Bush
$75,000 to find it a new building for its headquarters. Bush, whose father is a
past recipient of Recarey campaign giving (and a former CIA director), never
closed a deal.

He seemingly had better luck with another task: seeking a "fair hearing"

for IMC when it wanted a federal rule waiver. Though Bush can't recall

telephoning HHS Secretary Heckler or Haddow on IMC's behalf, as Haddow claims,
he does remember phoning another HHS bureaucrat, Kevin Moley, a former George
Bush political operative. IMC's request-- for a waiver from the rule limiting
its Medicare revenue-- was granted. Bush, who was then Miami-area Republican

chairman, says that he didn't know at the time how serious IMC's problems

were. The office of the vice president refers inquiries about Recarey to Jeb. As
for Moley at the HHS, he now says it was a "mistake" for the

government to deal with IMC, adding that he had doubts about the company as

early as mid-1985. He contends part of the blame for its long continuation as a
Medicare HMO belongs to the Florida Department of Insurance, which for years
looked into IMC's finances and its lending to other Recarey enterprises

without shutting it down. The department says there was never enough evidence to
move in court until after the first Recarey indictment.

Florida Insurance Commissioner Bill Gunter received $26,000 in IMC-related
campaign contributions in 1985-86, but a spokeswoman for the commissioner says
there was "no relationship between the contributions and any actions he

took." Gunter, a Democrat, is a candidate for the U.S. Senate.

Pressing IMC's case for many years was another large recipient of Recarey
campaign contributions, Florida Rep. Claude Pepper. A Pepper aide was listed

as a reference on Recarey's resume. Pepper, widely known for his advocacy of

the rights of the elderly, went to bat for IMC as recently as February 1987,

long after the HMO had been criticized for its care of Medicare patients.

"I didn't think their problems were serious," Pepper says. "All of a

sudden, it blew up." He adds that "nobody has a single piece of evidence

that I ever tried to prevent any investigation or do anything improper."

Throughout this time Zell was investigating how IMC had obtained a health- care
contract from a reputedly mob-linked union, Local 355 of the Hotel

Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union. In April 1987 a

federal grand jury indicted Recarey and three others on bribery conspiracy

charges. He was accused of paying off union officers to win the contract,

without which IMC wouldn't have had enough members to qualify for Medicare

work.

The second indictment of Recarey six months later accused him of tapping

phones and bugging a conference room in his hospital and headquarters. The

precise purpose of the operation remains obscure, but the FBI believes it

ultimately was to protect Recarey from the law.

Miller says witnesses told the FBI that Recarey had been involved in

bugging since the 1970s and upgraded his system in the early 1980s. The man

assigned to expand it was Manuel Espinosa, a spy with a cosmopolitan

background: CIA, KGB, Cuban intelligence agency. By 1981 Espinosa was

fingering people to U.S. authorities as Castro spies. Recarey hired him as his
security chief, giving him the code name "Gustavo Abreu."

He became a vital grand jury witness in the case against IMC before dying
unexpectedly a year ago.

The wiretapping case hasn't gone to trial, what with Recarey's

disappearance, but his three co-defendants in the bribery case have been

convicted. All are appealing.

Meantime, regulators also are sorting through $222 million in unpaid IMC

bills.

The indictments halted the flow of Medicare money to IMC. A court declared the
HMO insolvent, and the state took it over. What remained was sold to

Humana Inc., the big Louisville-based health concern, for $40 million.

Recarey was due in court Oct. 8 for a bond hearing on his second

indictment. He didn't make the appointment.

Numerous reports put Recarey in a suburb of Caracas. The United States has an
extradition treaty with Venezuela, but it hasn't helped much. The U.S.

Embassy in Caracas says it doesn't know anything about Miguel Recarey.

* Copyright 1988 by The Wall Street Journal

IMC CHRONOLOGY

* IN JANUARY, a state judge ruled that North Palm Beach-based First American
Bank & Trust Co. charged IMC illegally high interest rates on a $10 million

loan. The bank still hopes to recover $14.2 million it says IMC owes it.

* HUMANA MEDICAL Plan, a subsidiary of Louisville, Ky.-based Humana Inc., has
turned the remnants of the 170,000-member IMC into a 190,000-subscriber

network. Humana Medical Plan is the largest HMO in Florida and has an

estimated 30,000 subscribers in Palm Beach County.

* IN APRIL, the Florida Department of Insurance sued IMC and Touche Ross, its
accounting firm, saying tax refund checks totaling $2.2 million that were

delivered to IMC founder Miguel Recarey Jr. should have gone to IMC's

creditors.

* IN JULY 1987, First American bought Miami General Hospital, then owned by

IMC, for $15.05 million. A group of doctors bought the hospital from First

American a month later for $18 million.

* A SURVEY last year by the Palm Beach County Medical Society found that IMC
owed Palm Beach County physicians and hospitals $9.9 million, with 43

physicians owed more than $5,000 each. State officials expect the claims to

take years to settle.

* AN ESTIMATED 30,000 physicians and hospitals have filed claims for more than
$270 million, according to the Florida Department of Insurance. Not all of

those claims have been validated, and additional claims may be filed later.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Chronology at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 12, 1988 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

655 CUBAN EXILES LAND IN MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Cubans arriving in Miami by the hundreds Sunday after months or years of

exile in Panama and Costa Rica cried with joy as they were reunited with

family members living in South Florida.

Three planes-- two from Costa Rica and one from Panama-- brought in about 655
Cuban exiles in an operation organized by the Miami-based Cuban American

National Foundation, the first private group in the United States to sponsor

refugees under a recently approved federal program.

"It was extremely exciting," foundation staff member Fernando Rojas

said. ' ' They were all tremendously happy to see their family members, family

members who they haven't seen in years."

In all, 293 refugees from 102 families arrived aboard the first flight,

from Costa Rica, shortly before 1 a.m. at Miami International Airport.

The second flight, the one from Panama, also landed ahead of schedule at

11 a.m. It carried 182 Cubans from 53 families.

The second flight from Costa Rica landed around 3 p.m. carrying about 180
refugees.

Under an agreement with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,

the refugees were whisked through Customs, immigration and public health

checks at a staging area and sped to welcoming ceremonies and reunions at

suburban Tamiami Park.

Area school buses donated for the occasion carried the new arrivals to the
ceremonies.

The new immigration program allows up to 4,000 refugees to come to the

United States to live if they obtain private sponsors and proof they have

support and medical coverage for two years.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 15, 1988 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROUPS' AID TO IMMIGRANTS TO BE REPAID

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a sharp policy reversal, federal officials said Wednesday that they

would allow community organizations to be reimbursed for millions of dollars

they spent to provide health and education services to newly legalized

immigrants.

The change came after the organizations and some congressmen protested

that if the money was not paid, some of the groups would be forced to go out

of business.

The services, including outpatient health care and tutoring in English and U.S.
history, were provided to help illegal immigrants qualify for legal

status under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act and as new benefits

the immigrants received as a result of obtaining legal status.

The government had refused to allow reimbursements for services provided

between Oct. 1, 1987, and June 30 because contracts between government and

the private groups were not signed until this summer.

Group officials complained last week, after government officials served

notice of the payment ban, that they could not sign the contracts earlier

because the federal government was slow to publish regulations for the

reimbursements. The groups' expenses amounted to more than $13 million in

California alone during the disputed period.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 10, 1988 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SHULTZ RECEIVES AWARD FOR EFFORTS TO AID EMIGRES

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 53 words


Secretary of State George Shultz has been chosen to receive the 1988

Liberty Award from the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society for his efforts on behalf of
immigration of Soviet Jews.

He also was given an honorary doctoral degree by Tel Aviv University at a
convocation in New York, where he is attending the U.N. General Assembly.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATIONAL NEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 16, 1988 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INSPECTORS KEEP TABS ON FLIGHTS;
INTERNATIONAL TRAVELERS GET THOROUGH CHECK

BYLINE: By LUCY CHABOT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 268 words


If you're thinking of flying to the Bahamas for a weekend, be careful what

you bring back because the U.S. Customs Service is out in force.

Customs inspectors at Palm Beach International Airport checked 10,000

international flights last year-- 5 percent more than the year before

-- accounting for about 12.5 percent of all PBIA flights.

About half of them are private flights coming from the Bahamas; the rest

are commercial. In both cases, passengers and their baggage must be checked

before entering the country.

The process takes about 45 minutes and starts as soon as the plane touches down,
said Harold Shoffeitt, a U.S. Customs Service official. Passengers now

are taxied to the customs office just east of the new terminal where the

Immigration and Naturalization Service checks to ensure they are U.S. citizens
or valid visitors.

If their identification is incomplete, several situations can result. For
example, if the person has an expired passport but a valid visa, he will be

asked to leave the country within 48 hours. If the person doesn't have any

valid identification, the airline that brought him into the country is

responsible for taking him out immediately, Shoffeitt said.

If everything goes OK with the immigration inspectors, travelers take

their luggage to a customs inspector and pay taxes on items brought back worth
more than $400. Inspectors also look for prohibited items, including drugs,

endangered animals and ancient artifacts.

Palm Beach County is one of five spots in Southeast Florida where

international flights can land. Other spots include Key West, Miami, Fort

Lauderdale and Fort Pierce.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 22, 1988 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

ALIENS FLOODING IMMIGRATION FOR LEGAL RESIDENCY

BYLINE: By DONNA GEHRKE, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Thousands of alien farmworkers-- more than double the number just a month

ago-- are flooding immigration offices in Miami and Okeechobee to apply for

legal residency under an amnesty program that ends next month.

Several hundred aliens waited in line outside the large Immigration and

Naturalization office in Hialeah Friday to ask questions, pick up applications
and go to interviews required for amnesty.

In Okeechobee, INS officials said they are swamped with people applying

for legalization. A supervisor said the office will remain open through the

end of the Special Agricultural Workers legalization program Nov. 30 and that a
new program involving sugar cane workers might extend it further.

George Waldroup, an INS spokesman in Miami, said he expects the numbers of
applicants to increase sharply as the Nov. 30 deadline nears.

In early September, about 145 a day were applying in Florida. This week,

about 350 jammed into the state INS offices every day, Waldroup said.

"It's just like all programs, public and private," Waldroup said, with

many applicants waiting until the last minute to submit their paper work and

fees.

About 92,100 farmworkers in Florida have applied for the program since it began
in June 1987, according to the INS. The farmworker amnesty program gives legal
residency to illegal aliens who have worked the fields for at least 90

days between 1985 and 1986.

The general amnesty program had a similar rush just before it ended in

May. Some 47,768 illegal aliens applied for that program, which required

living in the

U.S. since Jan. 1, 1982. INS officials had predicted that 250,000 illegal

aliens in Florida would apply under the two programs.

At the Hialeah INS office yesterday, Saintilien Joseph, a Haitian, said he was
picking up applications for co-workers. "My boss sent me," he said.

Until now, the field workers had feared that the program was simply a way for
the INS to detect illegal aliens, he said.

Some haven't been able to apply until now because they have been up north on the
migrant circuit, picking fruits and vegetables.

Other farmworkers have been waiting to apply because they didn't have

money for the fees, said Lisa Levine, director of the South Dade Immigration

Association. * Staff Writer Jess W. Henryes contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 4, 1988 Friday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

JUDGE REFUSES TO HELP DEALER STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


Circuit Judge Don T. Adams denied a motion Thursday to set aside a 1986

guilty plea, and the defendant's attorney said the denial means his client

will be deported to Haiti.

Wesner St. Fleur said in an affidavit that when he agreed to plead guilty to the
sale of cocaine two years ago, his attorney, Steve Duhl, told him his plea would
not mean he would be deported and his immigration benefits would not be
affected.

Duhl testified Thursday that he had told St. Fleur that a guilty plea

"might mean he would be deported."

Alfred Zucaro Jr., now representing St. Fleur before Adams and in

deportation proceedings brought against him Oct. 19 by the U.S. Immigration

and Naturalization Service, asked Adams to set aside the plea.

Adams said anyone "with walking-around sense should understand that when he gets
involved in drugs, a large number of bad things, including deportation,

could happen.

Zucaro said after the hearing that he wasn't sure if he will appeal Adams'

ruling.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 25, 1988 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT HOPES TO LIGHT FERVOR FOR 200TH BIRTHDAYS

BYLINE: By ELIOT KLEINBERG, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 400 words


Americans are continuing to celebrate a series of 200th birthdays, with two more
parties set for 1989. Boris Feinman hopes South Florida will take part in the
festivities.

Feinman, of Boynton Beach, was a key player in 1987's U.S. Constitution

Bicentennial. For the past 14 years, he has organized a mock constitutional

convention for high school students nationwide. And he hopes residents will

help celebrate the 200th birthdays of the U.S. Congress, in March, and the

presidency, in April.

``They're alive and they die unless you participate," he said. "Any time

one-third of the voters take part in a local election and half in a

presidential election, democracy begins to die."

Feinman, a 72-year-old Latvian immigrant, retired from engineering in the early
1960s to work as a political and community activist in New York state.

He moved to South Florida in 1987.

In 1975, Feinman founded "Convention II," officially "The National

Constitutional Convention of High School Students." It is an annual "Super

Bowl" of high school students held in U.S. House and Senate committee rooms

in Washington, D.C. The students argue, debate and try to improve on the

original constitution.

Feinman helped organize the Constitution Bicentennial project, and was

assistant editor of a series of calendars published by the commission. On the
actual anniversary, Sept. 17, 1987, he hosted a gala local celebration for

about 600 at The Breakers in Palm Beach. And he continues to hold annual

anniversary breakfasts.

"There are so many opportunities to highlight history and build toward

the future," he said.

Feinman does not plan a role in nationwide efforts now under way to

commemorate the Bicentennial of the Congress and the Presidency. But he said

he would like to see the commission from Palm Beach County for the

Constitution Bicentennial reactivated to celebrate the Congress and Presidency
bicentennials.

"It seems to be a dead issue and no interest, but I suspect it ought to

be" of interest, he said. "It sort of lays an egg as I talk around."

Feinman said he also is trying to organize a program that would use the

celebrations to encourage voter registration.

"Picture if we had a 200th (anniversary) of the first meeting of the

Congress, and at the breakfast and the lunch, picture if we had notables

dressed up as members of that first Congress, and if they, in addition, tossed
out a couple of words encouraging voting," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 29, 1988 Tuesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LINING UP FOR THE AMERICAN DREAM: TIME RUNNING OUT FOR ILLEGAL;
ALIENS

BYLINE: By SCOTT MONTGOMERY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1301 words

DATELINE: OKEECHOBEE


These people do a lot of waiting, and they do it because it's worth it. For
them, hours spent in line may mean a life lived legally in America.

Mostly, these people are young and Mexican or Haitian. They wait with

children or friends. They begin forming a line at the Immigration and

Naturalization Service office between midnight and 4 a.m. Some curl up on

aluminum-frame lounge and lawn chairs that look as if they belong by a

swimming pool rather than in a parking lot.

When the sun chases the chill from the air, a murmur of conversation

rises from the group, in Spanish and Haitian creole. A few play soccer on the
asphalt while they wait for the office door to open at 8 a.m.

The lines, in Okeechobee and throughout the country, are forming because

an opportunity is about to end. At midnight Wednesday, the INS closes the

books on an 18-month program that has enticed 1 million illegal aliens to

apply for temporary residency in the United States.

The program, Special Agricultural Workers, was created as part of the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act.

The program has generated about 1.1 million applications since May 1987.

More than 100,000-- one of every 10 applicants-- live in Florida, according to
the INS. Across the country, 308,189 applications have been approved and

25,035 have been denied. The rest are being processed.

Exactly what effect the farmworker immigration program will have on the

state and the nation's agriculture industry is unclear, but on the eve of the
deadline, the program has clearly shown that illegal residents overcame a

natural distrust of immigration officials and came forward in large numbers to
begin the road to U.S. citizenship.

Along the way, some fell into the hands of people who sold them

counterfeit papers and gave them bad information, but it wasn't because the

INS didn't try to get the word out. The agency spent $11 million to advertise
the immigration reforms.

Verne Jervis, INS assistant director of public affairs, says the program

was added to the immigration law as a compromise with the agriculture

industry, which relies on an alien work force. The reform bill established a

schedule of penalties against businesses that continue to use illegal workers.
The program was a way to give the farm industry a chance to have its work

force legalized before the government began looking for illegal workers in the
processing plants and the fields.

In recent weeks, INS centers that were virtually empty in October have

been swamped with applicants. Since the beginning of November, lines of 100 to
300 people have been common in Dallas, Miami and even Okeechobee.

Jake Achterberg, who heads the Okeechobee office, doesn't expect things to
change this week even though INS offices were open Saturday to accommodate the
rush.

"Monday I expect a lot, 400 or so. Tuesday, the same thing," he said.

But, he said, things could get even worse Wednesday-- the final day-- because
INS offices will be open until midnight, and they are supposed to serve

everyone in line at that time.

"That could be 600 or 700 people," Achterberg said. "We're open until

midnight, but we may not get done until 4 or 5 in the morning. We'll have to

see."

All this last-minute interest in becoming a legal resident doesn't

surprise George Waldroup, an INS spokesman in Miami.

"When did you file your income tax?" Waldroup said. "It's a common

phenomenon of human procrastination."

But the penalty for aliens who file late is more than just a fine. If

caught after the deadline without temporary work permits, they face a

deportation hearing.

"One thing the law cannot do is make you do something," Waldrop said.

"If that happens, it's because they didn't care."

Waldroup and other INS officials insist that aliens have had ample

opportunity to learn about the program. Besides advertising the program, the

INS sent staff members to talk to workers.

Although Achterberg says he sympathizes with the applicants who spend so many
hours waiting, he says that only a few weeks ago his five-member staff

was bored.

"Yes, now they have to wait," he said. "They blame us, but they can't

blame us because we were here all along."

To be approved for temporary residency under the program, people need

only prove that they have worked on certain crops-- mostly vegetables and

fruits-- for at least 90 days between May 1, 1985, and May 1, 1986. INS

officials acknowledge that it's not as easy as it sounds.

As illegal residents, many applicants acquired assumed names. Proving

they worked the required time means proving they are the same person they

pretended to be. Also, Achterberg says, the farms where the people work often
pay in cash and offer no records of their payroll.

That's where the counterfeiters come in. They provide, for a price, the

papers needed to prove who the applicants are and where they worked.

The Rev. Hugh Duffy, pastor of the Sacred Heart Catholic Church in

Okeechobee, directs his parish's immigrant-aid program, which helps people

prepare their applications.

"There are problems all right," he said, "with people getting into the

act and charging money."

Duffy says the language barrier makes it easy for people to take advantage of
the foreigners. He deals mostly with Mexicans, and Duffy says the

foreigners have been conditioned to underestimate themselves so they are

easily conned.

"They don't understand their own worth and talent," Duffy said. "We

have a terrible problem getting them out of that mentality of being

exploited."

For those who came to the country illegally, the INS has long been viewed as the
enemy. To them, it's the menacing part of the American government, the part that
deports people, the part to be avoided.

But INS officials say the number of Special Agricultural Workers

applicants has exceeded any estimates the government made.

"Once they're in here, they're protected," Achterberg says of the

preliminary interview. "It's completely confidential. At first they were a

little reluctant, but they've warmed up to it."

Even with this protection, the aliens don't like to say much. They are

illegal immigrants who have made a living in the United States for years

without proper work papers. They are afraid to reveal too much about who they
are, where they come from or how they feel about the INS.

One recent Thursday morning before dawn, a Haitian named Herold took a

number-- 85-- from a sheriff's deputy who was there to keep an eye on the

growing crowd.

Thursday is a slow day at the INS office. Mondays and Fridays are the

busiest, because those are the days most of the workers get paid. It costs

$185 to submit an application.

Herold was pleasant but mostly just quiet. He said he didn't mind waiting in
line or driving from Fort Lauderdale to avoid the even larger South Florida
crowds.

"If you need something," he said, "you make sacrifices."

THE RESIDENCY PROGRAM

To qualify for the Special Agricultural Workers program, applicants must

prove they have done field work for at least 90 days between May 1, 1985 and

May 1, 1986.

Applicants are interviewed to check the validity of the papers they submit.

If approved locally, applications are sent to the regional office for final

approval. The Southeast regional office is in Dallas.

INS workers in Dallas inform applicants if they are approved. For those

approved, the letter from Dallas includes a temporary residency card valid for
18 months. After 18 months, they may apply for permanent residency.

Those denied temporary residency are provided a list of reasons for the

rejection. They may appeal to the INS within 30 days. Any illegal residents

not approved for temporary residency will be subject to deportation

proceedings.

FINAL CALLPROGRAM: Temporary residency for illegal aliens.

DEADLINE: Midnight Wednesday. The INS office in Okeechobee will be open until
midnight. Mailed applications must be postmarked by midnight.

COST: $185 fpr each application.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Information boxes at end of text / Shorter version ran other editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) AND (B&W)
 (1) PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Applicants for temporary U.S. resident
status wait in line outside the Okeechobee immigration office early Monday.
(Photo ran color 1A MSL and Lake O) (2)PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer Tony
Sterling of Jamaica waits outside the Okeechobee INS office Monday while his
wife files for residency.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 6, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIAL CHARGED IN BRIBERY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An official of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service received

more than $250,000 as payment for processing fraudulent identification cards

for farmworkers, an affidavit filed in federal court disclosed Monday.

Joseph Gourgue was arrested Friday on a charge of bribery of a public

official. He is being held in Miami on $100,000 bond, pending federal grand

jury action.

According to the affidavit by William H. Morris, INS special agent,

Gourgue was employed in the Hialeah legalization office of the INS as an

adjudicator. His duties included approval or rejection of temporary work

permits and residency cards under the Seasonal Agricultural Worker program.

The program, which ended Nov. 30, was designed to make it easier for

agricultural workers to become U.S. citizens.

INS clerk Yacenda Ambrose, who worked with Gourgue, said in a statement

to INS investigators that she was paid $500 to $1,000 a week to assist

Gourgue.

"She stated that he used her to create SAW identification cards for

aliens who had not been properly adjudicated as eligible," the document said.
Gourgue admitted he received payments from two people outside the agency

who would find clients for the bogus SAW cards.

"Gourgue claimed that he had so processed between 500 to 600 such

applications for $500 cash payment apiece. He acknowledged that he paid

Yacenda Ambrose to assist him," it said. The transactions took place between

June 3 and Sept. 23.

Ambrose had not been charged late Monday morning.

INS officials could not say if any of the fraudulent applications were

purchased by workers from the Lake Okeechobee area. George Waldroup, an INS

spokesman in Miami, said the INS may be able to trace the cards.

Waldroup repeated Rivkind's evaluation of the SAW program, saying that

reports of fraudulent applications being as high as 70 percent of the total in
some areas was true. Gourgue's alleged operation was discovered by an in-house
investigation, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 6, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ACQUITTED FARM LABOR CONTRACTOR CHARGED IN NEW FRAUD CASE

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


A farm labor contractor, whose acquittal on fraud charges led to the

dismissal last April of 49 federal court indictments, has been charged again

with defrauding a federal amnesty program for immigrant agricultural workers.
Lee Artis Breedlove, a Pompano Beach farm labor contractor, was one of

seven people, including a Delray Beach resident, charged last week in New York
City with conspiracy to sell fraudulent work documents to illegal aliens.

Breedlove, 54, was charged in January with selling bogus records to

immigrants seeking work permits and temporary residency status.

Breedlove's arrest was part of "Operation Cucumber," touted as the

Immigration and Naturalization Service's most ambitious fraud investigation.

Fifty-six South Florida farm laborers and five labor contractors were charged.
Breedlove was acquitted March 30 after a three-day trial in West Palm

Beach. His acquittal marked the 11th time federal prosecutors failed to obtain a
conviction against a "Cucumber" defendant.

The following month, 49 remaining indictments were dismissed.

Donnie Murrell, Breedlove's former defense attorney, said Monday the new

charges are retribution.

"They suffered a major embarrassment by the great defense work the

federal public defenders put out and the public humiliation of the judges'

orders," Murrell said. INS Deputy District Director George Waldroup said

the new charges have nothing to do with Operation Cucumber.

Breedlove and six others were arrested Wednesday and released on $50,000

signature bonds.

Also arrested on fraud charges were Tereatha Freeman of Delray Beach and

Mary Miller, Sandra Roberson, Andrew Gray, Annie Brown and Annie Mason, all of
Pompano Beach.

The arrests culminate a six-month INS investigation-- named "Operation

Mongoose"-- by New York immigration agents and federal prosecutors.

A criminal complaint alleges that two INS undercover informants met at

Breedlove's Pompano Beach home Nov. 10 "for the purpose of purchasing

fradulent employer documents for fictitious aliens."

Breedlove was paid $600 for the phony work records, which were filed with the
INS in New York, the complaint says.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 10, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAWYER PLEADS NOT GUILTY TO CHARGES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 101 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A West Palm Beach lawyer charged with conspiring to smuggle illegal

immigrants into the United States pleaded innocent in federal court Friday.

Michael Arlen Blank, 38, of 940 N. Lake Way, Palm Beach, was released on a
$250,000 personal surety bond by a federal magistrate Friday, which means

Blank will not have to post cash with a bondsman in order to gain release.

He surrendered to agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service

shortly before his court appearance.

Blank was charged by a federal grand jury with 91 counts of conspiracy,

alien smuggling, wire fraud, mail fraud and securities violations.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 11, 1988 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOVIET JEWS MAY GET REFUGEE SLOTS;
CONGRESSMEN WANT ALLOTMENT TO BE USED IN EARLY 1989

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 298 words


A bipartisan group of congressmen has asked federal officials to use up the
entire annual allotment of U.S. refugee slots for Soviet Jews within the first
three months of 1989, promising to push for legislation authorizing additional
slots and money later in the year.

The congressmen's proposal comes as federal officials, expecting a surge

of emigration because of Soviet reforms, have rejected some Soviet Jews

seeking to come to the United States under refugee status. Federal officials

say the number of applications exceeds the available number of slots set aside
for immigrants admitted to the United States with formal refugee status.

In a letter to Secretary of State George Shultz, the congressmen said,

"We understand that the reallocation of (refugee authorization) numbers

implies that more numbers will be necessary for the third and fourth quarters.
Thus we are prepared to convene emergency consultations to raise the refugee

ceiling to accommodate the increases in the number of individuals expected to
leave the Soviet Union."

At least 173 Soviet Jews were denied refugee status-- which requires

applicants to show a "well-founded fear of persecution" if returned to their

homeland-- when they asked for it from U.S. officials in Rome, the congressmen
wrote.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, acting under

congressional authorization, set aside 24,500 slots for immigrants from the

entire Soviet bloc this fiscal year, out of a total of 90,000 refugees

worldwide. Most of the Soviet bloc slots go to Soviet Jews.

INS spokesman Duke Austin said, "Denying them refugee status does not

mean we believe they can be sent back to the Soviet Union without fearing

persecution. It could mean they have been offered status in another country

which would relieve them of persecution."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 17, 1988 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIAMI EXPECTING 100,000 REFUGEES;
OFFICIALS TO ASK FOR FEDERAL HELP

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Local officials have called an emergency meeting of Dade County's

Immigration Advisory Committee to deal with a new wave of refugees that's

expected to bring 100,000 Central Americans to Miami in the next 18 months.

Robert Bernal, Metro's coordinator of refugee programs, said local

officials must make an immediate appeal to the federal government to prevent

the county from being overwhelmed by the task of providing refugees with

housing and services.

"We are getting to the point where this community can no longer absorb these
numbers," Bernal said.

Although the county has an ongoing, federally funded program for refugees, most
of the Nicaraguans coming are ineligible because of their "basically

undocumented status," Bernal said.

"You're going to see a growing problem of finding emergency housing,"

said Perry Rivkind, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service. "We've already seen that happen in Belle Glade and Indiantown with

the arrival of Guatemalans and Salvadorans."

But despite the number of expected refugees, Rivkind said he sees few

similarities between conditions today and the Mariel boat lift of 1980, when

125,000 Cuban refugees were housed in tents under Interstate 95.

"Mariel was very different, because so many came in such a short period

of time," Rivkind said. "There's no parallel at all with Mariel, except in

the numbers that are building up on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to equal
the numbers that arrived in 1980 in just three months. What you have now is a
fairly heavy influx, but a more orderly process."

Another important difference between 1980 and today, said Rivkind, was the
"great social upheaval" that Cuban President Fidel Castro caused when he

turned loose thousands of ex-prisoners and mental patients. INS officials have
said that is not the case with Central American refugees, most of whom are

fleeing war and poverty.

Bernal said Dade has shown a "unique ability to assist not just

immigrants but the unfortunate needy in general. We've been very effective as a
community, extremely patient, cooperative and supportive . . .

"But the bottom line here is the federal government needs to take an

aggressive role," Bernal said. "This is not passing the buck, for crying out

loud. Immigration is federal policy."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 20, 1988 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FARMING MAGNATE DUDA DIES

BYLINE: By MARK CALVEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 601 words


John Duda, a Czechoslovakian immigrant who helped turn 10 acres of celery

into an international agricultural conglomerate, died Saturday in Central

Florida of complications from a liver ailment. He was 84.

Mr. Duda was born June 18, 1904, in Velcice, Czechoslovakia. He moved to

the United States in 1912 with his mother and brothers to join their father,

Andrew, who had immigrated three years earlier. In 1926, Mr. Duda, with his

father and two brothers, formed A. Duda & Sons.

From its humble beginnings on the celery farm in Slavia, a small town near
Orlando, the company has grown into a major agricultural corporation, annually
producing almost $200 million worth of vegetables, citrus, sugar cane, cattle
and other crops from Florida to California and Australia. The company is

expanding into real estate development with 115,000 acres of Florida farmland.

The company is a major player in South Florida agriculture with a 23,000- acre
farm in Belle Glade, citrus groves in Fort Pierce and LaBelle and a

vegetable farm in Naples.

Mr. Duda served as corporate vice president of the company until his

retirement from active management in 1976. He was a director until January

1988.

Although Mr. Duda had no for-

mal engineering training, he used his mechanical skills to help design

specialized farming, irrigation and packinghouse equipment. Most of his

innovations are now standard farming equipment on South Florida's soft, spongy
muck soil, his brother, Ferdinand, said at the recent opening of the company's
packinghouse in LaBelle.

"He was almost a genius of mechanical innovation in creating equipment to suit
their particular needs," said George Sorn, executive vice president of

the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association in Orlando.

"The company holds 31 patents, and John Duda was responsible for most of

them," Duda spokesman Don McAllister said.

One of Mr. Duda's innovations was the modification of conventional

farming equipment so it could harvest vegetables on the muck without sinking.
One of the Duda characteristics was to cooperate with everyone in the

industry, so a Duda innovation could quickly become an industry standard, Sorn
said. That willingness to share information may have reflected Mr. Duda's

staunch Lutheranism, Sorn said.

Andy Rackley, executive vice president of the Florida Sugar Cane League,

said he knew the Dudas by reputation as being innovative and "all-around good
citizens" long before meeting them.

In recognition of his achievements in agriculture, John Duda received an

honorary doctor of agriculture service degree from the University of Central

Florida in 1982. Three years later, he was installed as a member of Florida's
Agriculture Hall of Fame.

But the Duda family has not been without controversy. Environmentalists

have complained that the Dudas polluted Lake Apopka by dumping millions of

gallons of polluted water into the lake from their farming operations. The

state is working to clean up the lake and stop the discharge of water from

farmland.

In the 1970s, the Dudas were the subject of litigation and criticism for

their treatment of migrant laborers. Since then, industry observers say, the

company has improved pay and housing conditions for migrant and seasonal

workers.

Mr. Duda is survived by his wife, the former Julia Cicmanec, and five

children by his first wife, Katherine, who died in 1974. The children are John
L., Edward, Walter and Luther, all of Slavia; Katherine Duda Dingwell of

Chagrin Falls, Ohio; and a stepdaughter, Phyllis McMullen of Atlanta. There

are 19 granchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. He is also survived by his

brother, Ferdinand Duda of Slavia.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OBITUARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 22, 1988 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AID SOUGHT TO HOUSE REFUGEES

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Citing an urgent need for temporary housing for thousands of Nicaraguan

refugees expected to arrive in Miami in the next 18 months, Metro Commissioner
Barbara Carey appealed for help Wednesday from Miami's Nicaraguan community.

Meanwhile, Miami City Manager Caesar Odio, returning from a meeting with

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Washington, brought good

news Tuesday night for more than 200 Central American refugees living in Bobby
Maduro Miami Stadium.

"Within three to five days work permits will be issued to those refugees

staying at the Bobby Maduro baseball stadium whose applications for political
asylum are approved by the INS," Odio said. "However, the permits will only

be given to these refugees at the stadium and will not apply to those that are
expected to arrive here in the next few months."

Odio also said the INS promised him it would speed the process of

reviewing the political asylum applications.

Carey, chairman of the Metro Immigration Advisory Committee, said: ' ' The

established Nicaraguans already here for several years could help the county

and the city out in this situation."

Carlos Garcia and Silvio Arguello Cardenal, members of the Nicaraguan

Community Committee, agreed. The committee held a press conference Monday to

appeal to the Nicaraguan community for help in finding jobs and homes for the
refugees.

The refugees have been bedding down in five of the stadium's locker rooms for
the past week. Odio ordered refugees be moved to the stadium from the

House of Love and Hope, a private Nicaraguan shelter in Little Havana ordered
shut down by Odio for various city-code violations.

About 200 homeless people were admitted to the stadium after Miami's first cold
snap last week, according to Livia Garcia, who oversees the city's

homeless program.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 29, 1988 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

PROGRAM TEACHES CUSTOMS, LANGUAGE

BYLINE: By MARY C. WILLIAMS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: STUART


The influx of Central American refugees working in Martin County has

spawned a federally subsidized education program aimed at teaching the working
Hispanic population more about the customs and government of the United

States.

Basic government and citizenship are only part of the instructional

program being offered to those seeking permanent residency in the U.S. The

program will also teach English as a second language to the Hispanic

population working and living in Martin County, school officials said.

Carl Miller, director of Martin County's Vocational, Adult and Community

Education program, said the new program is, in part, due to the new

requirements for permanent residency set by the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

Also, employers have requested that the district set up a program to teach
aliens who have been granted work permits by INS but know little about the

economics and customs of this country.

"We've had employers call us about training some of their employees,"

Miller said. "So, we're setting up programs where they are needed.

Two months ago, the school district began holding classes at Loblolly Bay, a new
residential community in Hobe Sound that has hired about 18 aliens to

help build a golf course.

Indiantown, which has the largest concentration of refugees in the county, is
operating a mobile unit several times a week in addition to the regular

classes offered at the Adult Learning Center. Classes are also offered on

weekends for the growing number of migrant farmworkers who live in the

community.

Miller said the district plans to expand the program within a few weeks to Palm
City, where approximately 30 aliens make their living picking vegetables. More
programs will be established as needed, he said.

Miller estimates that the federal government will provide $250 to $500 per
student to finance the program.

"We've requested INS funding for those aliens that have been granted

temporary status and are working here. We have assurance that we will get the
financial assistance," he said.

Under the 1986 Special Agriculture Worker's program, which ended Nov. 30

for farmworkers who could prove they worked 90 consecutive days in the fields,
thousands of Central American refugees applied for temporary residency status.
But before they can qualify for permanent residency here, Miller said each must
complete the citizenship program.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  SCHOOLS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1)
 BARRY C. ALLEN/Staff Photographer Guatamalan students in Indiantown study in a
tractor trailer modified into a classroom.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 12, 1989 Thursday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

HISPANICS SEE GROWING RESENTMENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Hispanic community leaders say resentment is growing against immigrants as

the region prepares to absorb a wave of 100,000 Central American refugees due in
the next 18 months.

"Relations in the community are at a very low point and if we don't do

something soon, something similar to (the 1980 riots) could happen," said

Osvaldo Soto, president of the Spanish-American League Against Discrimination.
He was referring to the Liberty City race riots in which 18 people died.

Robert Bernal, Dade County director of refugee programs, said, "If

immigration continues in the numbers we are seeing now, the resentment will

continue to grow."

About 2,000 Central American refugees held in Texas by immigration

officials have been allowed to leave their makeshift camps and attorney Linda
Yanez, who sued to allow the refugees to leave, said she expects the majority to
come to Miami.

Greyhound Lines added six buses Tuesday to its five regularly scheduled

buses coming out of south Texas. Spokesman George Gravley in Dallas estimated
Wednesday that three-quarters are bound for Miami, and the first buses will

arrive Friday morning.

Miami City Manager Cesar Odio met Wednesday with leaders of 250 Nicaraguan
refugees staying temporarily at Miami Stadium.

"They don't want to have shelters. They want jobs," Odio said. "There

are jobs that are waiting for them. All they are asking is for the right to

work. The non-action on the part of the federal government is putting them in
this position."

As word of the large-scale influx has spread, a group called Citizens of

Dade United called for immigration limits at a recent meeting of Dade County's
Immigration Advisory Committee.

"We are tired of having these refugees dumped on us," spokeswoman Pat

Keller said in a statement that brought both cheers and charges of bigotry.

"People who come into the country illegally should be deported with all

good speed."

Keller says Latin American politicians are encouraging refugees to come to South
Florida in an effort to "displace Americans."

Hispanics worry that her inflammatory comments reflect the views of an

increasing number of residents and point to the official English amendment

that passed in November as a sign of growing anti-Hispanic sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 13, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIAMI ASKS FOR HELP AS REFUGEES POUR IN

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The first wave of Nicaraguans and other Central Americans from refugee

camps in Texas is arriving at a downtown bus station while city officials

plead with the federal government for money to house and feed those without

relatives waiting for them.

Dade County's latest group of refugees fleeing political oppression and

economic hardship could reach 2,000 by next week, city officials said.

"We're trying to get federal officials to give us money and get these

people work permits," said Miami Vice Mayor Victor De Yurre. "We can't deal

with this alone."

County and city administrators, who expect 100,000 Central Americans

refugees to stream into the city within the year, say they are not concerned

that the initial influx will interfere with next week's Super Bowl

festivities.

About 5,000 Central American refugees had been living in squatters' camps

and makeshift shelters along the U.S.-Mexican border because U.S. immigration
officials imposed a travel ban for political asylum applicants until their

cases can be reviewed.

When a federal judge lifted the travel restrictions Monday, hundreds of

aliens boarded Miami-bound buses in the Texas border cities of Brownsville and
Harlingen. About 300 refugees have filed through the Greyhound bus station in
downtown Miami since Wednesday night.

One of them, weary Victoria Solis, 41, of Managua, Nicaragua, sat in the

bus station Thursday clutching bags of clothing as four of her sons milled

about.

Solis said she and her children were waiting to be picked up by her

husband, a mechanic who has lived in Miami for two years. She explained that

she was sad because she had to leave behind her 21-year-old son, recently

drafted by the Nicaraguan military.

"I'm happy to be here, but I miss my son," she said, fighting back tears.

Solis said she left Managua to avoid harassment from the military and

escape poverty.

Nicaraguans Jose Sanchez, 38, and his sister, Rosario, 30, said they spent five
days in Brownsville. They came to Miami to find a cousin who had promised to get
them work permits.

"We loved our homeland like most patriots, but circumstances forced us to

leave," said Sanchez, a commercial artist.

In Bobby Maduro Stadium north of downtown Miami, Jose Paez, 39, said he

arrived from Texas two days ago and has been sleeping on the grounds outside

the stadium. City officials opened the stadium to 250 homeless Nicaraguans in
mid-December, but say there is no space for new arrivals.

"When they gave us the green light Monday, immigration people told us that

we would be taken care of in Miami," said Paez, standing outside the stadium

Thursday with other arrivals. "Unfortunately, when we got here, they told us

they couldn't let us in."

City administrators are sending the new refugees to various Dade social

service agencies, such as the Salvation Army, for temporary housing and health
care, said Livia Garcia, the city's coordinator of refugee programs.

"We want to help these people, but we can't accept anymore at the

stadium," she said.

This month, the city will apply for a large chunk of $50 million in federal
funding to help the private sector find shelters for the refugees and Miami's
growing street population, De Yurre said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PATRICK MURPHY-RACEY/Staff Photographer Carlos Lopez, 3, is surrounded by
refugees waiting to use phones at a Miami bus station Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 14, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE SEEKS HELP FOR REFUGEES;
MARTINEZ ASKS FOR SETTLEMENT IN OTHER STATES

BYLINE: By MARY ELLEN KLAS, and CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


As Central American refugees continued to stream into Miami Friday, Gov.

Bob Martinez demanded that federal officials resettle some of them outside the
state.

"The citizens of Florida cannot and will not accept this burden alone,"

Martinez said in a letter to U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. Martinez

said the government should find other states or a third country to accept some
of the refugees who are flocking to the Miami area.

As he arrived in the Florida Keys Friday for a fishing vacation,

President-elect George Bush said he will take a hard look at U.S. immigration
policy after he assumes office next week.

"This influx of refugees into Texas, my state, and into Florida is

causing an overburdening of facilities like schools and hospitals," Bush

said. "And this is a sorry commentary on what's happening in Central America

and in Nicaragua.

"The final answer is democracy and freedom in Nicaragua. And people are

fleeing tyranny. The United States has to be generous, but no one community

can suffer an overload without some support in some way."

In Washington, Florida Sens. Bob Graham and Connie Mack urged Thornburgh

to respond quickly to a federal court ruling this week that allowed 5,000

Central American refugees camped along the Texas border to travel freely

within the United States.

"Florida has suffered enough," Graham said. "We've been strained to the

breaking point by crisis immigration."

About 500 refugees have arrived at the Greyhound bus station in Miami and up to
2,000 additional "bus people" are expected to arrive during the

weekend.

A delegation of Miami community leaders visited south Texas Friday to

discourage a mass exodus to Miami.

"If people come down there (Miami), they need to know that they're going

to have to fend for themselves," Tony Ojeda, Dade County assistant county

manager, said in Harlingen, Texas. "We just want to tell them if you want to

send them to Miami, we can't stop you, but let them know what the facts are,

that there are no more public services available," Ojeda said.

In his letter, Martinez said the federal government "turned its back on

the taxpayers of Florida during the Mariel boatlift." He called for the

government to spread the responsibility for the Nicaraguans to all 50 states

or a third country.

"Based on our experience with other immigrant groups, the impact on the

southeast Florida community could be well in excess of $20 million," he said.
Martinez plans to meet with Thornburgh the week after Bush's

inauguration, said Brian Ballard, the governor's chief of operations. Bush

will be sworn in Friday.

* Staff writer Larry Lipman and The Associated Press contributed to this

story.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer Jose Torres, a Nicaraguan refugee, arrived in
Miami two days ago from Brownsville, Texas. Outside Bobby Maduro Stadium, he
selected a donated blanket to use to shade food.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 18, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FIASCO OUTRAGES MIAMI'S BLACKS

BYLINE: By HOWARD KLEINBERG, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Yes, it has happened before-- in precisely the same way and with

practically the same results. A new wave of refugees begins arriving, a black
man on a motorcycle is killed by police, rocks begin flying, cars are burned,
stores are looted.

The principle difference between Miami's racial conflicts of 1980 and 1989 was
that this time it was done when Miami was supposed to be putting her best foot
forward.

The area is loaded with dignitaries and the press for Super Bowl week,

especially the press, which in this case carries mostly sportswriting

credentials but typewriters nevertheless.

The millions of dollars spent by the community to scrub up the place and

put on a happy face, if it is not yet down the drain, should be down the

drain.

As was the case before the 1980 riot-- which was sparked by the Mariel

boatlift, the killing of black insurance man Arthur McDuffie by police and

their subsequent exoneration by a change-of-venue Tampa jury-- black Miami is in
a horrible condition. More likely, today's condition is attributable to the
national administration of the past eight years than any particular neglect of
municipal officials; trickle-down misery tends to flood the bottom.

Like many other cities, Miami has a homeless problem. Most are blacks who cannot
find jobs no matter how many new ones the Reagan administration claims it
created. (There are no defense-industry plants in Miami.)

Suddenly, a new crisis comes upon the city. Thousands of Nicaraguans,

backed up in Brownsville, Texas, are released by a court to pack the Greyhound
buses to Miami. City officials, caught without any support system for these

refugees, struggle to find them shelter in a baseball stadium.

As it did when 125,000 refugees flooded Miami under federal government

sanction in 1980, the community appeals to the feds for assistance with the

tremendous health-care, education and welfare load it is about to assume. And,
as in 1980, there is no response-- this despite the fact that George Bush is

out bonefishing less than 75 miles away.

Well-meaning Hispanics and non-Hispanics drive to the stadium with offers of
jobs for these new immigrants. Menial as the jobs are, they are jobs

nevertheless.

The trigger finger is beginning to tighten.

It is Martin Luther King Day and while most of the white community takes

the day off to go boating or shopping, the black community participates in

ceremonies honoring Dr. King.

It is there that the animosity is heard. A black state senator says that

as she rode in a Martin Luther King Day parade, young blacks

were coming up to her complaining that the incoming Nicaraguans were being

offered jobs at $5 an hour while the young blacks cannot find any work.

The trigger finger pulls further.

Now it is nighttime. The parades through the ghetto (only) have concluded, the
Catholic Church has relieved some of the overcrowding at the makeshift

shelter at the baseball stadium by opening its facilities to the Nicaraguans,
and a black man on a motorcycle drives a passenger through the historic black
Overtown section of Miami.

Facts fuzz here, but what is known is that the black motorcyclist is

drilled through the head with a bullet from a policeman's gun. That ever-

tightening trigger has fired.

Frustration and outrage, the two things most experienced by black Miami,

overflow and the result is what is referred to either as a disturbance or a

riot. Miami's image remains Miami's image and no outpouring of dollars into a
Miami Nice campaign will salvage the week.

There has been a historic resentment by blacks here toward the arrival of new
refugees, based primarily on economics, and, naturally, an equal

resentment of white cops drilling black people through the head.

Some years back, when Vernon Jordan still was head of the Urban League, he
addressed a banquet of the local chapter here and observed, as an ad lib to

his speech, that perhaps the next time he spoke at a major hotel here, he

could see some black faces working as waiters in the dining room. A look

around revealed that the waiters all were white, mostly Hispanic.

The Hispanics who have come to Miami have found a largely sympathetic

community. Just as the Hispanic community reached out to the Mariels eight

years ago, it is reaching out to the Nicaraguans with shelter and jobs.

Who, however, has reached out to the black community in the eight years in
between?

Compounding this is the refusal of the federal government to assist in

absorbing the refugees. The bottom line is that the local treasury has to be

tapped heavily to meet the needs of these new arrivals. Thus local social

programs are drained in favor of the newcomers.

And when the social-program budget is exhausted, we all know who suffers

most.

The business community will redouble its efforts to improve its image with the
National Football League and all those corporate jet-setters who fly into Miami
during Super Bowl week.

There will be promises and some restitution.

But there is one thing Miami cannot control-- and this despite its heavy

voter support for two Reagan administrations and the upcoming Bush

administration.

Miami cannot control a failed immigration policy.

It has failed in many ways. It has failed in that it does not practice an
evenhanded immigration.

And it has failed because it has not yet accepted its responsibility for

assisting those communities economically buzz-sawed by the waves of

immigrants; communities which had little enough funds to provide programs for
its citizens already in need.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES GET A HAND IN MIAMI;
SETTLED NICARAGUANS WELCOMING NEWCOMERS

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN, and TRISH WILSON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1563 words


Since the fall of the Somoza regime in Nicaragua in 1979, thousands of the

country's refugees have made their way to South Florida. With the latest,

desperate influx, which began earlier this month, Nicaraguans have become a

highly visible and increasingly outspoken presence among the area's burgeoning
immigrant population.

Fewer than 2,000 Nicaraguans live in Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie

counties, a figure that is likely to increase if many of the poorer recent

immigrants seek jobs as farmworkers in the area, as other immigrant groups

have done.

Overwhelmingly, Nicaraguans choose Dade County. More than 100,000 have

settled there in the past decade. Since last summer, thousands more have

arrived.

Most have assimilated with relative ease into the demographic soup that

makes up the county, but the latest arrivals have exacerbated tensions between
different ethnic groups, some of whose members feel the Nicaraguans are

getting preferential treatment denied to American blacks, Haitians and other

minorities.

Some blacks involved in last week's rioting in Liberty City and Overtown said
they resented the help federal and local agencies are giving Nicaraguans, even
while many Nicaraguans are being refused work permits.

And, while the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has stepped up its
pace in interviewing people seeking political asylum, many Nicaraguans see the
agency's record as less than promising: Between 1980 and 1986, only 10.6

percent of the 32,312 political asylum requests from Nicaraguans were granted.
Still, the newly arrived Nicaraguans benefit by their Latin link to the

area's established Hispanics, principally the Cubans, many of whom have raised
money and found shelter for them. Some Cuban, Salvadoran, Chilean and

Guatemalan immigrants who fled political repression in their countries feel a
kinship with Nicaraguans who are at odds with the Marxist Sandinista regime

that replaced Anastasio Somoza in Managua.

`ALL THE JAILS WOULD BE FULL'

"Thank God they arrived in a city filled with kind people," said

Cristobal Mendoza, president of the Committee for Poor Nicaraguans in Exile,

as he helped refugees board trucks Thursday at Bobby Maduro Miami Stadium.

"If they went back to Nicaragua, all the jails would be full."

For some non-Hispanics, the apparent camaraderie between established

Hispanics and the largely impoverished Nicaraguan refugees spells economic

hardship for those outside the circle. Parallels are being drawn with the

Mariel boatlift of 1980, when 125,000 Cuban exiles descended on Florida's

shores.

"A great many Haitians lost their jobs to pave the way for the

marielitos," said Roger Biamby, executive director of the Haitian American

Community Association of Dade. "We fear that the same thing is going to

happen again. Hispanics will favor another Hispanic ethnic group, and we're

concerned about that."

The most recent influx of Nicaraguans-- about 250 of whom were housed at

the stadium in Miami until last week-- may grow into thousands, relief agency
spokesmen predict, as state and federal officials struggle to establish a

coherent policy to accommodate them.

Alex Stepick, an anthropologist at Florida International University,

disagrees. "The onslaught that was feared a couple of weeks ago is nowhere

near what was feared," he said. "People thought it would be another Mariel,

and it's clearly not."

Not all arms are open to the new arrivals. A group called United Citizens of
Dade, which had urged voters to approve the English-only state

constitutional amendment, suggested that the Nicaraguan refugees be sent home.
But such feelings are likely to dissipate with time, Stepick said.

`GREAT PLACE' FOR HISPANICS

"I would suspect that with Nicaraguans, over a period of three to five

years, no one will notice them in the negative sense," he said. "And they

will stay in Miami-- a great place if you're Hispanic."

In Miami, Nicaraguan shops and restaurants operate side-by-side with Cuban
businesses in Little Havana. Many of Nicaragua's high-income families-- the

country's exiled professional classes-- live in Kendall, while middle-income

families gather in Sweetwater, a town off the Tamiami Trail where the

population is almost exclusively Nicaraguan.

Dade County Schools Deputy Superintendent Paul Bell said 500 new

Nicaraguan students are pouring into the school system every month. Every six
weeks, the district receives enough new Nicaraguan students to build a new

elementary school.

Julio Somoza, 38, the late dictator's nephew, came to Miami June 6, 1979, and
runs two restaurants and two fast-food outlets in Miami, Kendall and

Sweetwater. He said the influx of Nicaraguans in the decade since his uncle's
fall "is the best way of measuring what's happening in Nicaragua."

"The revolution was made precisely for the people who are crossing the

border now," said Somoza, as he sipped coffee in Los Ranchos, his restaurant

in Sweetwater. "I've heard that people scratch around for food in the

garbage. I'm not saying the Somoza government was marvelous, but that kind of
hunger didn't exist."

POLITICS AND POVERTY

But, for most of the exiles, leaving Nicaragua has as much to do with

politics as it has with poverty.

"Nicaraguans don't see the Sandinista regime as changing to democracy,"

said Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, a former director of the Nicaraguan Resistance

and former editor of the Nicaragua's opposition newspaper, La Prensa. "What

is left is a situation of total despair, and this is what is driving

Nicaraguans out of Nicaragua."

But poverty is not good enough for the INS, which demands that applicants for
political asylum prove they have been persecuted by the government. The

agency is denying work permits to thousands of recent immigrants on the

grounds that they do not meet that requirement.

At the INS processing office in Perrine, Lydia Guido, 38, a political

asylum applicant and sewing machine operator in a Dade County furniture

factory, apprehensively waited her turn with an INS interviewer. Proving that
she and her husband, Rafael, were victims of political persecution in

Nicaragua will not be easy, she said.

"My husband was physically attacked by the Sandinistas when he refused to work
for them for nothing," she said. "They got him in the side of the head

with a machete, and after that they never left us alone."

If the INS requires it, Guido said, she may be able to get medical records from
relatives in Nicaragua that would prove the extent of her husband's

injuries.

LOOKING FOR WORK ON FARMS

Those who get permission to work may end up in the vegetable and fruit

fields of South Florida.

Wellington resident Klaus Sengelmann, former agricultural minister of

Nicaragua under Somoza, said that a lot of the immigrants, "especially the

group coming in now, are from farm areas, and they'll be looking for jobs" as
migrant workers.

If Nicaraguan immigrants make their way to Palm Beach County and the

Treasure Coast, they won't find a cohesive Nicaraguan community. Unlike their
counterparts in Dade County, Nicaraguans in Palm Beach County are not unified.
They have not congregated in the same neighborhoods, attended the same

churches, set up Nicaraguan restaurants and shops or formed any sort of

association.

"They're scattered all over," said Ernesto Gonzalez, program director of

the Farmworker Coordinating Council.

The only visible attempt at organization has grown out of a great

Nicaraguan passion-- baseball. Meet the Palmnics: Palm Beach County's

Nicaraguan softball team.

Although small and disorganized, the local Nicaraguan community is

growing, as refugees start trickling up from Dade.

Schools where Hispanic students take English as a second language report

increases in the number of Central Americans.

At Belvedere Elementary, two dozen Nicaraguan students enrolled in the

past three years. "The Nicaraguan children have a more successful time here

than some of the children from other countries," said teacher Meg Wenner.

The adjustment is difficult-- language barriers, culture shock,

homesickness, new friends.

"They don't know how to play like we play," said Jimmy Carter, 10, who

still misses his friends in Managua since he left three years ago.

But Basilio Riaboukha, a 12-year-old native of Matagalpa, is going to get by.
His favorite song, he said, is Don't Worry, Be Happy.

CHRONOLOGY

1980

Influential moderates Alfonso Robelo and Pedro Joaquin Chamorro resign from

the government junta.

1981

Reagan administration halts aid to Nicaragua and authorizes covert aid to

Contras.

1982

Storms cause greatest floods in Nicaragua in 20th century, with loss estimated
at $360 million, half the nation's budget.

1983

U.S. cuts Nicaragua's sugar quota.

1984

Sandinistas claim victory in first democratic elections while Reagan

administration calls election `farce.'

1985

Reagan imposes full trade embargo. Daniel Ortega announces austerity measures,
blames trade embargo for loss of $1.1 billion in credits and exports in past

four years.

1986

Currency devalued. Americas Watch charges both Contras and government with

rights abuses. Ortega reports nearly 14,000 Nicaraguans killed in five-year

conflict. Iran-Contra scheme uncovered.

1987

Nicaraguan inflation rate reaches 1,226 percent. Wage and food prices hiked

100 percent. National drought leads to declaration of food emergency.

1988

Five-year regional effort to bring peace results in two-month cease-fire.

Economic troubles continue. Oct. 22, Hurricane Joan devastates east coast,

leaving 300,000 homeless.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Chronology box at end of text / Map and graph do not appear in database;
see microfilm

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (C AND 2 / B&W) MAP AND GRAPH
 (1) LYNNE SLADKY / Staff Photographer Nicaraguan refugee Sara Palma with her
son Humberto, 7, and daughter Maria, 9, outside their new Miami apartment last
week. (2) GREG LOVETT / Staff Photographer Twin brothers Basilio and Alberto
Riaboukha, 12, settled with their family in Lake Worth and attend Belvedere
Elementary. (3) GREG LOVETT / Staff Photographer Refugees Isabel Reyes (left),
Ceres Arauz (center) and Hermida Seda (right), cook eggs, beans and rice and
fried bananas at the Catholic Archdiocese Family Activities Center in Miami
Friday. (4) Map by DUNCAN MACDONALD / Staff Artist (5) Graph by DUNCAN MACDONALD
/ Staff Artist Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 27, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR: PUT REFUGEES ON OLD BASES;
MARTINEZ AGAIN SEEKS HELP WITH NICARAGUANS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Gov. Bob Martinez urged U.S. Attorney General Richard Thornburgh on

Thursday to use abandoned military bases or other federal facilities to house
Nicaraguan refugees streaming into South Florida.

The proposal was one of several Martinez made during a half-hour meeting

at the Justice Department. Thornburgh did not give any indication how or when he
would respond to the proposals, Martinez said at a news conference.

Martinez also urged Thornburgh to:

* Support federal assistance to reimburse local government agencies that

have paid for the care and housing of an estimated 100,000 refugees in South

Florida during the past six months. He said that care already has cost about

$15 million.

* Support reauthorization of a bill to provide federal money to

communities impacted by a large refugee population. Former President Reagan's
final budget recommended that the program be eliminated.

* Support a program that would require refugees to be assigned to other

states outside Florida. But Martinez acknowledged that it would be difficult

to make such a program work because people would "decide with their feet,"

where they want to live.

* Give recently arrived Nicaraguan refugees extended voluntary departure

status, which would make them eligible to work and receive certain assistance.
Currently, the refugees are classified by the Immigration and Naturalization

Service as illegal aliens while their requests for asylum are reviewed.

"We didn't arrive at any conclusions, but we had a very meaningful

discussion," Martinez said.

Noting that the Justice Department does not release the federal money

needed by local agencies, Martinez said the state would be contacting other

departments soon.

He said he has not yet approached President Bush about federal aid for

Florida.

Martinez and Thornburgh met with several aides to the attorney general

including INS Commissioner Alan Nelson. Martinez said INS has provided work

permits to some refugees, easing their burden on local relief agencies.

Martinez said he specifically recommended housing refugees at the Krome

Detention Facility in Miami, but an INS spokesman said that camp usually is

near capacity and would only be able to house a "handful" of refugees.

Thornburgh told Martinez he was hopeful that after a hearing next week a

federal judge in Texas would reverse a previous decision and issue a temporary
injunction to allow INS to detain refugees at the Texas-Mexico border until

their status could be determined.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 29, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEE HELP VITAL;
U.S. MUST MEET ITS RESPONSIBILITIES TO S. FLORIDA

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 423 words


Everyone with the slightest degree of influence in Washington must insist

that the federal government live up to its responsibilities as yet another

wave of refugees streams into South Florida.

Immigration is clearly a federal responsibility, but Washington has been

notoriously remiss in meeting its obligations. So-called "impact funds" are

readily available for upscale Washington suburbs that happen to be home to

federal workers, but Ronald Reagan's final budget deletes the program that

would aid communities absorbing large refugee populations.

Gov. Bob Martinez has been doing his part. He conferred with Attorney

General Richard Thornburgh on Thursday, and he is to contact other federal

departments soon. Presumably the governor's status as an early supporter of

the Bush candidacy helps, at least in getting his phone calls returned.

But Gov. Martinez should not be expected to carry the load alone. He needs help
from both sides of the aisle on Capitol Hill, from Democrats such as Rep. Harry
Johnston of West Palm Beach and Sen. Bob Graham, from Republicans such

as Rep. Tom Lewis of North Palm Beach and Sen. Connie Mack.

Further, the program that emerges needs to be realistic. Resettlement, for
instance, is not realistic; it was tried with Cubans in the 1960s and lasted

only as long as it took them to ride the bus back to Miami. These new

refugees, Central Americans this time, are going to stay where they feel

comfortable, which means South Florida. Gov. Martinez recognized this when he
said people would "decide with their feet" where they want to live.

The use of abandoned military bases is another unrealistic idea. There

simply is not enough space for anywhere near 100,000 people. A spokesman for

the Immigration and Naturalization Service told the governor that the Krome

Detention Facility, the only such installation in Dade County, is usually near
capacity and could handle only a "handful" of additional people.

Realism dictates that federal money be provided to offset the impact of

the refugees on the schools and other public facilities of the communities in
which they live. Also, Washington should allow the new arrivals to help

themselves. There is no rational reason to deny work papers to people whose

status has not been determined, thus forcing them onto public assistance.

South Florida has shown an amazing capacity to absorb refugees. Previous

groups have enriched our economy and our society, and the newest wave will do
the same in time. For now, however, we in South Florida need a little help so we
can help our friends.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 30, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MANY RIVERS TO CROSS FOR NICARAGUANS;
BORDER TOWN BLEEDS FOOD, MONEY, DIGNITY

BYLINE: By JAMES PINKERTON, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1319 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


Brenda Rojas and her five children have taken refuge in the clubhouse of a

Catholic church after wading across the Rio Grande.

Two streets over, Graciela Alvarado, her two daughters and a grandson are living
in the Cameron Hotel, their residence since they were arrested last

Monday by the U.S. Border Patrol while crossing the river.

Both women left Nicaragua early this month, both have run out of money,

and both are bewildered by the hardships and obstacles encountered on their

long journeys to rejoin their husbands. Alvarado's husband has worked for the
World Bank in Washington, D.C., for several years, and Rojas' is a security

guard in Miami.

"Right now, we are eating only once a day because we don't have any

resources," said Alvarado as she distributed a meal of Kentucky Fried Chicken to
her family.

Alvarado, 47, and her daughters -- Alyeri Graciela, 21 and expecting a

baby this month, and Leyla Isabel, 20-- are some of the hundreds of Central

American refugees stranded in the lower Rio Grande Valley.

The number of Central Americans in the valley has declined significantly

since a federal judge Jan. 11 blocked a month-old Immigration and

Naturalization Service policy restricting asylum-seekers to South Texas. But

dozens more wade across the river each night. A hearing on extending the

judge's ruling will take place Tuesday.

In Brownsville, even a casual visitor can see the effects of an ongoing,

massive migration from Central America.

Public phone booths around town usually have lines of Central Americans

waiting to make calls to friends or families in the north, and most of the

border town's cheap hotels are jammed.

Convenience stores and fast-food restaurants host clusters of refugees

sitting on curbs out front, and on the only highway north, small groups of

refugees can be seen trying to thumb a ride.

"It is a disaster," said Andres Orantt, owner of La Siesta Motel on

Central Boulevard.

Orantt had just evicted 14 Guatemalan refugees from Room No. 7 of his

motel, a room rented the night before for $18 to a couple.

"It's because of (former President) Reagan, who has forced down the

economy of Nicaragua and other countries in Central America," Orantt said.

Alvarado is disillusioned. "Here we expected to find a lot of support

for Nicaraguans, and they've even taken our passport and documents when we

were arrested," she said.

Alvarado said that their bus was stopped once by Guatemalan police and

four times by Mexican police, all demanding bribes so they could continue

their journey.

Thursday, Rojas and her five children-- Oscar Abraham, 13, Saul

Enrique, 12, Lester Antonio, 9, Oscar Alberto, 5, and Gema Lucia, 2-- spent

their fourth day in the clubhouse owned by the Immaculate Conception Catholic
Church.

EVADED THE BORDER PATROL

Rojas' journey began with an airline flight to Guatemala City. From there, she
and her children took a bus to the Mexican border and on to Matamoros,

across from Brownsville. She and 25 other Central Americans made it across the
Rio Grande without being caught by the Border Patrol.

Because asylum-seekers who present themselves to INS officials get more

liberal release terms than those who are arrested, Rojas and her companions

were planning to turn themselves in at the INS district office in Harlingen.

In all likelihood, they will be transported to the INS office by the Rev.
Patricio Domingues, who runs the shelter in the clubhouse. Last week the

priest said he took three carloads of Central Americans to Harlingen, where

they camped outside the INS office.

The priest was angered by the treatment the refugees received at the hands of
alien smugglers, police in Mexico and Guatemala, and bandits along the Rio
Grande.

"All of the people who have arrived here have been robbed, and it is a

horrendous crime that we should denounce," Domingues said. "Some of the

coyotes kidnap these people, and hold them at knifepoint until their friends

or family pay a ransom."

GRAMM WANTS INS TO PAY

In Washington, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said the INS must take

responsibility for the Nicaraguans streaming into South Texas on their way to
Miami, Los Angeles and other cities.

Gramm, who sits on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that oversees

Justice Department financing, threatened to cut the INS budget and use that

money to house the Central Americans.

"He's turned up the heat under a group of bureaucrats up here in

Washington who so far seem incapable of dealing with the situation," said

Larry Neal, a spokesman for Gramm.

"We're looking at a situation where everybody in the Rio Grande Valley is
burdened to some degree trying to deal with this, and the question is why

should valley taxpayers not be able to rely on the federal government to deal
with a problem that is a federal problem," Neal said.

Duke Austin, a spokesman at INS headquarters in Washington, disputed

Gramm's contention.

"The INS is not a resettlement agency. The Department of Health and Human
Services has funds for refugee resettlement," Austin said. "I'm not sure

what he (Gramm) sees that the INS can immediately do."

Austin called the political asylum process a "gaping loophole" in U.S.

immigration law that has allowed hundreds of thousands of aliens to enter the
country and secure work papers. He said there are a "tremendous" number of

frivolous applications.

`SITUATION GOTTEN BIZARRE'

"The situation has gotten so bizarre that we have Mexicans who are

saying, `We don't have any reason to feel we'll be persecuted, but we'll apply
for asylum anyway,' " Austin said.

After applying for political asylum, aliens can legally remain in the

United States for three or four years as they work their way through a lengthy
appeals process.

"I think it's a very easy thing to point to the INS, but we have a flow

of illegal aliens inside the United States, and with the loophole of political
asylum, there is very little we can do," Austin said.

In 1987, the Reagan administration took steps to give Nicaraguans such as the
Rojas and Alvarado families preferential treatment.

Then-Attorney General Edwin Meese ordered the INS in June 1987 to give

work authorization to any Nicaraguans applying for political asylum before a

hearing on the merits of their claim was held. In practice, INS officials also
granted travel authorization and allowed Nicarguans to move on to other cities
and pursue their asylum cases.

Dec. 16, the INS instituted a policy to process the asylum applications in 30
days while requiring the applicants to remain in South Texas.

Tuesday, a hearing in Brownsville will decide whether a permanent

injunction against the INS policy is warranted.

SUCCESS IN GETTING ASYLUM

That Nicaraguan refugees have been particularly successful in winning

political asylum seems clear in a sampling of INS asylum rulings. During

fiscal 1988, the INS granted 2,786 applications for political asylum brought

by Nicaraguans, while denying 2,455 applications. In comparison, 149 asylum

applications from El Salvador were granted, and 3,822 were denied.

The United States has been the principal supporter of the government of El
Salvador, which has been fighting a leftist insurgency for eight years. The

Reagan administration has repeatedly charged that Nicaragua's leftist

Sandinista government has supplied arms to the guerrillas in El Salvador and

helps plan their military campaigns.

Beginning in early 1982, the Reagan administration began aiding the

Contras fighting the Sandinistas and imposed an economic embargo against

Nicaragua in hopes of wrecking its economy.

Austin immigration attorney Paul Parsons said the federal government

should stop making decisions on political asylum based on foreign-policy

considerations.

"We have seen the U.S. government essentially oppose asylum applications

for persons from countries with friendly governments and assist applicants

from countries with unfriendly governments, and I think the politics should be
taken out of the asylum process so that each case is looked at individually,"
Parsons said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 1, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE MAY REINSTATE RESTRICTIONS ON ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN SOUTH TEXAS

BYLINE: By JAMES PINKERTON, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXAS


U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela indicated Tuesday that he may reinstate a

Dec. 16 immigration service policy that confined thousands of Central

Americans to the Rio Grande Valley, creating crowded shantytowns and angering
many residents.

At a hearing in Brownsville, Vela said he was "inclined" to dissolve a

temporary order that had kept the Immigration and Naturalization Service from
restricting people applying for political asylum to the valley.

But the judge said he would not rule until Feb. 20.

Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Garza said he would use the time to try to

persuade the federal government to send help.

Garza said that, at Tuesday's hearing, INS attorneys stated that if the

policy were reinstated, they would not do anything to house or shelter the

asylum-seekers.

"I think that's not correct. I don't think it's fair of the federal

government to restrict people to the community and then not authorize them to
work," the mayor said.

The INS says 30,000 Central Americans, about half of whom are from

Nicaragua, have entered south Texas during 1988, and most were allowed to

travel on to their U.S. destinations, principally Miami and Los Angeles.

In response to the influx, INS officials Dec. 16 changed their policy

concerning Central American asylum-seekers by restricting their travel to the
Harlingen area after an application had been submitted. The INS promised to

reach a decision in 30 days in each case in order to weed out frivolous

claims.

But immigration attorneys in Harlingen and Brownsville, filing a suit on

behalf of six asylum-seekers, alleged among other things that the INS changed
its policy without first publishing those changes in the federal register or

allowing public comment.

Austin immigration attorney Barbara Hines said a return to the INS policy would
be "tragic" for Brownsville, "which can barely manage anyway."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 7, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' YES, RACISM EXISTS . . .';
ADAMS: CONSIDERS THIS THE `ERA OF DENIAL'

BYLINE: By GERALD ADAMS

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 687 words


There is a rising tide of intolerance for differences in this country. Much of
this intolerance is because of the influx of immigrants from Central

America, Mexico and other countries. The problems of immigration tend to

magnify the existing problems of native African-Americans. African-Americans

do not enjoy the benefits of "liberty and justice for all" as is this

country's promise.

Yes, racism exists. No, not all whites are racist. However, there are

enough racists to make life miserable for many African-Americans and other

minorities. The vast majority of people are not racists. Rather, the non-

racist populace accepts the actions of racists, without complaint, thereby

compounding the problem.

I like to consider this the Era of Denial. Nobody wants to admit that

racism exists. Twenty-five years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act,

the attitude is we have done enough for minorities. If they have not made it,
tough. There are really people who feel that a system of treatment and

attitudes, installed since 1619, can be over in 25 years of attempting to

resolve problems. From 1619 to 1964, no significant strides were made to treat
African-Americans with a sense of dignity. For 345 years racial injustice was
rampant in our society, without any attempts to give African-Americans relief.
Then in 1964, with passage of the Civil Rights Act, people thought that a

magic wand was waved and everything would be fine. Not so. Everything is not

fine. Discrimination in housing, employment and economic development still

exists today.

Admittedly, some of the problems facing African-Americans can be and should be
resolved by us, African-Americans. Some of us still look for handouts instead of
using our inner strengths to overcome racist obstacles. However, I am not

about to blame the victims totally. All most of us want is to be treated

fairly and equally. After the circumstances we have been through, some

bordering on genocide, we have survived as a people.

I am certain that if the roles were reversed, and African-Americans

treated whites as they are now treated, the riots in Miami would be comparable
to a big party. No one knows how it feels to be a victim of racism until it is
personally experienced. It is now very subtle in most instances: from that

bank official, who sees the color of the skin rather than ability to repay, to
the personnel director who makes an employment decision based on race.

Once there was a store owner in my neighborhood who wore a gun on his

side. I could not believe it. He looked at all of his clientele as potential

robbers rather than potential customers. That attitude permeates our society.
Blanket, broadbrush opinions about African-Americans hurt us. All of us

are not lazy. Most of us work very hard, for meager salaries. Most of us are not
on welfare. Most of us are not drug addicts or dealers. Most of us are

very moral and possess values. Most of us are law-abiding, patriotic citizens.
Most of us are just as any other person with a desire for a good paying job,

decent affordable housing, a good education for our children and equal access to
the rewards of opportunities presented by our great country.

However, it seems to me that every time African-Americans attempt to enter the
game of mainstream society, the rules are changed. Even in basketball, the

dunk was outlawed at one time because only African-Americans did it. Many

racist decisions are just that simple. When Taiwan won the Little League too

many times, some wanted to change the rules. When attitudes of that nature

regarding something as trivial as sports exist, think about the really

important issues and the attitudes affecting African-Americans.

The problems of racism will not be resolved until African-Americans take

responsibility for themselves and their actions, and not until the majority of
whites quit accepting the actions of racists.

Today it is my skin color. Tomorrow it may be some characteristic that you
possess.

Gerald Adams, 44, of Riviera Beach, is project director of the West

Palm Beach Minority Development Center. He was Palm Beach County's first equal
opportunity officer, from 1974 to 1980.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C)
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer (1).' A store owner in my neighborhood...looked
at all of his clientele as potential robbers rather than potential customers.
That attitude permeates our society.' -- Gerald Adams, project director, West
Palm Beach Minority Development Center (2).ABBEY G. HAIRSTON, general counsel
for the Palm Beach County School Board: ' Maybe someday . . . society will
realize that our talents are being wasted due to unfounded prejudice.'
(2).ARNEATHA J. ROBERTS is active in many areas of the community. She says: ' We
cannot overlook the impact of national leadership in setting a moral tone for
the country.' (3).GWENDOLYN JOHNSON, a member of the Democratic Executive
Committee of Palm Beach County: `We can fight for our rights in a peaceful
manner and do not have to subject ourselves to violence to get the job done.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 11, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TEXAS INS OFFICE CLOSED FOR CODES VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 250 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, TEXAS


City officials Friday evicted the Immigration and Naturalization Service

from the building where thousands of Central Americans apply for asylum each

week, accusing the INS of failing to follow fire codes or clean up litter and
human waste around the building.

"We are finally forced to take this drastic action," Mayor Bill Card

said. "It's a situation where we have not been able to get the cooperation

and the attention of the federal government."

The fire marshal and police cleared the building at 10 a.m., then locked

the two main entrances and sealed a third with duct tape. A notice was put on
the door saying it was not safe for habitation.

State District Judge Robert Garza later granted the city a temporary

restraining order, forbidding the INS to reopen the application center or any
other facility in Harlingen "in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance and
threat to public health and safety."

About 100 Central Americans and some INS employees stood outside the

padlocked building while police turned away arriving immigrants.

On some nights, scores of Central Americans sleep outside the building to secure
places in line the next morning.

Four portable toilets at the side of the building have been allowed to

overflow, according to the city's lawsuit, and the parking lot and nearby

vacant lots are littered with trash and rotting food.

The INS kept a fire exit at the center locked and had seating for 450

people in a building where the maximum occupancy under the fire code is 196,

the lawsuit said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 14, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ORDERS REFUGEE CENTER TO REOPEN

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


A federal judge Monday overrode local authorities and ordered the reopening of a
refugee processing center that was padlocked last week as a health and

fire hazard.

U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela set aside an order by a state district

judge that had barred the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service from

using the center in Harlingen.

More than 2,000 people a week, most from Central America, have been

applying for political asylum at the INS Harlingen office. Many of the

applicants have camped near the building while waiting for their paper work to
be processed.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATIONAL NEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 MUGS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 18, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS RULE REINSTATED BARRING ALIEN TRAVEL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


A federal judge Friday reinstated an Immigration and Naturalization Service
policy barring political asylum-seekers from traveling beyond the Rio Grande

Valley while their applications are pending.

Justice Department officials still had not revealed a plan for sheltering the
thousands of Central Americans to be held under the restriction. A

congressman has said the INS would set up a "tent-city" detention camp, but

the agency said that was only one of several options under consideration.

The INS estimates more than 100,000 Central Americans will pour into the

area this year after crossing the Rio Grande illegally near Brownsville.

U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela blocked the INS Jan. 9 from restricting

the travel of asylum-seekers after a group of immigration attorneys sued the

INS over the procedure that was blamed for flooding the area with homeless

Central Americans.

Hundreds of primarily Central American immigrants started camping in

squalid conditions in makeshift tents and condemned buildings in the Rio

Grande Valley, prompting a local outcry.

Vela's ruling Friday lifts the restraining order against the INS, and

beginning midnight Monday the agency again will be allowed to keep the

immigrants in the INS' Harlingen District.

"Now we can get on with the overall plans we have to deal with the

situation," Omer Sewell, INS district director, said Friday. He would not say
what the plans were.

"We think that's going to create a multitude of problems here in the

(Lower Rio Grande) Valley," said Mark Schneider of Harlingen, one of the

attorneys who sued the INS over the matter.

Brownsville immigration attorney Linda Yanez, who sued with Schneider,

appealed Vela's ruling Friday and sought an injunction pending the appeal, but
Vela denied the injunction Friday afternoon. Yanez said she would seek an

emergency stay through the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans.

Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Garza was unhappy with the ruling. "We still

think the federal government has an obligation to help house and feed and take
care of the medical needs of the Central Americans. . . . "

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said Thursday the INS plans to set up a

detention camp for the asylum-seekers at the agency's Port Isabel Service

Processing Center, a detention facility on 347 acres 15 miles northeast of

Brownsville. The center normally holds aliens facing deportation proceedings,
but the INS this week also started handling asylum applications there.

INS officials last spring reported a dramatic increase in the number of

Central Americans seeking political asylum at the southern tip of Texas. The

agency had been stamping asylum-seekers' documents and allowing them to travel
to their declared U.S. destinations until Dec. 15, when, faced with huge case
backlogs in cities such as Miami and Los Angeles, it started requiring people to
pursue their cases in Harlingen.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 18, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN BORDER DITCH WILL BE STARTED IN APRIL

BYLINE: By GUILLERMO X. GARCIA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: SALTILLO, MEXICO


Construction of the controversial anti-smuggling border ditch near San

Diego should begin in April and be operational this summer, Alan Nelson, U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner, said Friday.

The multimillion dollar, 4-mile-long, 6-yard-wide ditch between San Diego and
Tijuana, along Otay Mesa, will be financed by the INS despite heavy

criticism from Mexican authorities.

"There was a serious drainage problem that the Mexican government wanted

corrected. This ditch does that, and it will also stop the vehicles; that is

the purpose of it," Nelson said at the border states governors conference in

Saltillo.

The San Diego-Tijuana corridor is where half of all undocumented crossings along
the 1,950-mile-long border are registered, according to private agency

and immigration service statistics.

Although the Mexican delegate to the International Boundary and Water

Commission proposed the ditch two years ago, the INS did not announce plans to
pay for the project until late last year.

At the time, the INS said the ditch would serve not only to drain off

industrial wastes from a nearby development, but that it also would hinder the
flow of drugs and people transported by vehicle.

Mexican officials and the press view the San Diego ditch as an affront to
Mexican sovereignty and an attempt to intimidate the Mexican government. Many
Mexicans see it as an attempt to drown or harm thousands of undocumented

workers crossing into California.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 18, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STROESSNER'S DAUGHTER, WIFE ARRIVE IN MIAMI

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The wife and daughter of deposed Paraguayan dictator Alfredo Stroessner

arrived in Miami Friday amid speculation that they were planning to set up

permanent residence.

Stroessner's wife, Ligia Mora; her daughter, Graciela; and Graciela's

second husband, Manuel Gonzalez Llama, held valid six-month tourist visas and
made no request for political asylum, said Richard Smith, deputy director of

the Immigration and Naturalization Service office.

Smith said the State Department notified immigration officials of the

visit but did not reveal any details of the family's travel plans. He said it
was not known whether they planned to set up residence in Miami, but they were
free to travel to any other part of the United States.

In Washington, the State Department declined to comment Friday on

Stroessner's plans, citing a longstanding policy of not commenting on cases of
political asylum.

Stroessner, who has obtained political asylum in Brazil, was ousted in a

bloody coup Feb. 3 in which Gen. Andres Rodriguez took power. Stroessner had

ruled for 34 years.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 22, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS ERECTS TENT CITY; BISHOPS FORESEE `CONCENTRATION CAMP'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Tuesday erected tents inside

a fence topped with barbed wire at a minimum-security prison under a plan to

speed up processing of aliens and jail those denied asylum.

The Catholic Bishops of Texas charged that they foresaw "the creation of

the largest concentration camp on U.S. soil."

State Department officials began making recommendations on asylum

applications under a plan announced Monday to deal with an influx of Central

American immigrants and speed up the weeding out of "frivolous" claims.

Under the plan, applicants will get an answer as early as the same day and will
be subject to immediate arrest and detention if denied asylum.

Before Tuesday, applications could take weeks to process, and aliens were
released on their own recognizance while they awaited appeals or deportation.
INS began erecting tents at its rural Port Isabel Service Processing

Center in Bayview just north of Brownsville in case the number of detainees at
the facility exceeds its 1,100-bed capacity. As many as 5,000 could be

detained in the large circus-size tents within the 315 acres.

The Texas Catholic Conference said: ' ' The INS statement speaks of

' frivolous' applications. Apparently any applications by people who have

suffered dreadfully from civil war are frivolous," it said. "Obviously we

are about to witness the creation of the largest concentration camp on U.S.

soil since the incarceration of Japanese-Americans during World War II-- a

shameful page in our history."

Delia Combs, assistant INS commissioner for refugees, asylum and parole,

said two State Department officers Tuesday were reviewing the applications.

Only immigrants who can show persecution are entitled to asylum; those who come
to better themselves economically can be deported.

INS spokesman Mario Ortiz said 25 were denied political asylum Tuesday,

and no one was approved.

Many of the applicants showing up at the center Tuesday were unaware that they
were subject to arrest if their cases were denied. "We didn't know about it,"
said Luis Vasquez, 29, from El Salvador, adding he would take his

chances anyway.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 24, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES IN S. FLORIDA TO RISE 83%;
OFFICIALS WANT MONEY FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials are expecting an 83 percent increase in the number of

refugees seeking asylum in South Florida, where last year the refugees

received more than $6.7 million in social services, according to a report

submitted Thursday to the Senate.

The report, prepared by the General Accounting Office for Florida Sens.

Bob Graham and Connie Mack, said 8,214 refugees applied for asylum at the

Immigration and Naturalization Service's Miami office last year. Only the Los
Angeles INS office reported more requests with 28,491.

In 1989, INS estimates 33,857 refugees will seek asylum in Los Angeles,

while 15,021 are expected to apply in Miami.

Between Jan. 9 and Jan. 27, INS records show that 6,270 aliens applied for
asylum in Harlingen, Texas, of which 31 percent went to Miami and 19 percent

went to Los Angeles. Three-fourths of the refugees bound for Miami were

Nicaraguans, followed by immigrants from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador,
the GAO said.

Federal and local officials have estimated that 100,000 Nicaraguans

eventually may seek asylum in South Florida. State officials estimate the cost
of providing services to those refugees at $14 million to $16 million.

$4,000 PER DAY FOR SHELTER

Based on data gathered from Dade County agencies, the GAO report estimated that
the Nicaraguans received $3.3 million in health services at Jackson

Memorial Hospital; $2.7 million in education services at Miami-Dade Community
College (borne by the school); $480,000 in Community Action Agency social

services; $50,000 for emergency services and child and elderly care. United

Way agencies provided $24,744 worth of services to 584 Nicaraguans in the last
six months of 1988.

The city of Miami provided shelter for about two months at Bobby Maduro

Stadium for the homeless-- including 433 Nicaraguan refugees-- at a cost of

about $4,000 per day. The cost of shelter specifically for Nicaraguans was not
computed.

Nicaraguan and other refugees are expected to swell attendance in Dade

County's already crowded public schools, but the GAO report did not estimate

the cost of increased enrollment.

SPEEDING FEDERAL RELIEF

The GAO report was released as Graham, a Democrat, and Mack, a Republican,
introduced legislation to speed federal relief to communities affected by

large influxes of refugees seeking asylum. Rep. Larry Smith is expected to

file a companion bill next week.

Under existing law, the attorney general may allocate federal assistance

to such communities only after declaring an immigration emergency. Congress

authorized $35 million for the relief program in 1986 but never appropriated

the money.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 25, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEE APPLICATIONS PLUMMET; INS PULLS BACK STAFF FROM TEXAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, TEXAS


So few people are applying for political asylum under a tough new one-day

procedure that the immigration service has scaled back the extra staff it

brought in to start the program, an official said Friday.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said the dropping numbers
indicate the program is succeeding in discouraging "frivolous" applications.

The agency maintains that most asylum-seekers are in the United States for

economic reasons and are not fleeing persecution, a requirement for obtaining
refugee status.

Twenty-six asylum examiners will be sent home by Monday, said Alfonso De

Leon, INS assistant district director for examinations.

One of the two State Department personnel on hand to issue advisory

opinions returned home Thursday, De Leon added.

"They are subject to recall, but it's just not cost-effective to have

them here with the numbers that are showing up, or should I say not showing

up," said De Leon, who oversees the adjudication process.

Fifty examiners have been on duty since Tuesday under a new policy in

which asylum-seekers face immediate jailing, detention and deportation

proceedings if their cases are denied.

More of the 24 case examiners remaining after Monday and part of the

clerical staff also may be sent back home if the number of applicants remains
extremely low, De Leon said.

The INS reported it processed 233 asylum applications Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 28, 1989 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

LAWYERS FLOCK TO IMMIGRATION FIELD

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


The wave of immigrants to Florida has had a significant impact on the

state's economy and culture-- and on the legal profession.

Since 1977, the number of lawyers in Florida specializing in immigration

issues has swelled from 20 to more than 350, said Ira Kurzban, a Miami-based

lawyer and past president of the Association of Immigration Lawyers.

The national membership in the association has doubled in less than 12

years to more than 2,500, Kurzban said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Dade / Broward / State / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 1, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. MAY ADMIT MORE SOVIET JEWS;
PROPOSAL COULD CREATE HUMANITARIAN CATEGORY

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration, struggling to cope with 24,000 Soviet Jews and

other emigres stuck in Western Europe while seeking entry to this country,

will ask Congress soon to create a special immigration category permitting the
president to admit up to 30,000 additional people a year for "humanitarian,

foreign policy reasons," government sources said Tuesday.

In addition, Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Robert Kasten Jr., R-Wis., will
propose today that Congress and the administration agree to raise the

ceiling on granting political refugee status to Soviet emigres during fiscal

1989 from 25,000 to 50,000.

This is the category under which most Soviet Jews have been gaining

admission to the United States. The administration's proposal would set up a

different category for people who cannot qualify for refugee status but who

the U.S. government believes should be admitted over and above existing

immigration quotas.

"A refugee emergency has now developed in the flow of Jewish refugees and others
from the Soviet Union," the two wrote their colleagues. "At the rate

of the current flow of Soviet refugees, (the fiscal 1989 quota of 25,000) will
be exhausted by the end of this month. No funding will be available, and the

program will come to a halt."

Kennedy and Kasten were to introduce legislation today to process and

resettle the additional 25,000 people. They would provide $150 million by

diverting appropriated but unused money that was originally intended to aid

individual states absorbing large numbers of refugees.

This flurry of activity reflects growing concern over problems that have

risen in the wake of U.S. success in pressing Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to
allow increasingly large numbers of Jews, Armenians, Pentecostal Christians and
other minorities to leave the Soviet Union.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 2, 1989 Thursday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

JAMAICAN CANE CUTTERS DENIED WORK PERMITS

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: SOUTH BAY


An immigration office opened to issue work permits to Jamaican sugar cane

workers closed down Wednesday after a court ruling ended the program.

"It was shocking news to me," said Dellis Ford Brown, a sugar cane

cutter who had expected to receive his work permit Wednesday. The card would

have allowed him to leave the cane fields, where he is a guest worker, and

find a higher-paying job.

An estimated 8,000 cane cutters brought in from Jamaica and other

countries were eligible for work permits until a federal court in Washington,
D.C., Monday ruled them ineligible.

Immigration and Naturalization Service official Jake Achterberg of

Okeechobee opened a temporary office in Belle Glade Tuesday to process the

work permits.

However, when he returned home Tuesday night, he received orders from his Miami
office to close down the temporary office and return to Okeechobee.

More than 60 cutters arrived at the office Wednesday morning, unaware of the
court ruling that sugar cane isn't a perishable crop and workers don't

qualify as special agricultural workers. The men returned to the camp and were
given the rest of the day off. There were 200 other workers at a labor camp

preparing to make the trip.

"We had told the workers when this process (applying for special

agricultural workers status) started that the regulations didn't permit it

. . . so they should not get their hopes up," said U.S. Sugar Corp. spokesman
Robert Buker in Clewiston.

"They're our best workers," said U.S. Sugar Corp. Agricultural Relations

Manager William J. Miller III.

"We were vocal (in opposing SAW status for H2-A workers) because, among

other things, we have a large

staff of scientists" who refuted that sugar cane is a fruit, vegetable or

perishable commodity, Buker said.

"We want them back," Miller said. ' ' Still, it has to be disappointing

to them. We made it a point to go to each of our eight camps and explain that it
was all up to the decision made by the judge.

"It didn't take long for the word to get out," he said. "A couple of men

from the Okeelanta camp called me this morning and asked me what was happening
and I told them, `You know as much as I do.'

"All I knew was what I read in the newspaper," he said, "and they were

way out in the woods. I don't know how they found out."

Richard Wilson, an official at the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association

office in Belle Glade, said work permits had been issued to about 400 cane

cutters before the ruling Tuesday.

Achterberg said those who had been issued employment authorization cards

will be able to work legally in the United States.

Miller said that those who received the cards would have first crack at

jobs cutting sugar cane next year, if they wish, because they'll be considered
domestic workers.

Ervin Smith, a worker who did not receive a card, said he would return to
Jamaica and come back next year to work in the fields.

"I feel terrible just now," said Douglas Reid, another cane cutter. "I

think it might come true. I wanted to try to work and help my family back

home. This is my seventh year (cutting cane). Hard work."

Delroy Blake said he had his hopes high but if an appeal is made and he is given
the chance, he'll apply for legal status again.

"I feel very upset," Blake said, echoing the statement of several others

who feel they've been left out in the cold.

* Staff Writer Mark Calvey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 4, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT MIX WOULD `REVERSE' UNDER SENATE BILL, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants from eight countries that get more than half the family-

preference visas would get a much smaller share of legal admissions to the

United States under a proposed Senate bill, the General Accounting Office said
Friday.

Mexican immigrants would be among those most affected, a Senate judiciary panel
on immigration was told.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., said Mexico funneled more legal immigrants into the
United States in 1987 than all of western Europe, according to the latest annual
figures.

Eleanor Chelimsky of the GAO, a congressional watchdog agency, testified

that the proposed immigration bill, reintroduced by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D.-

Mass., and Simpson, could "reverse the pattern under current law in which

the eight high-demand countries have more family preference immigration than

the 167 remaining countries."

The high-demand countries are Mexico, the Philippines, South Korea, the

Dominican Republic, India, China, Great Britain and the British protectorate

of Hong Kong.

Currently, these eight countries account for 52 percent of family

preference immigration, while the other 167 account for 48 percent. That

balance, Chelimsky said, would be flip-flopped by the Kennedy-Simpson bill

-- causing 60 percent of the immigrants to come from 167 nations and 40

percent from the so-called Big Eight.

The bill provides a greater proportion of visas for "select" immigrants

-- those with English-speaking ability and special skills-- but does not allow
them to bring in family members under this special class, Chelimsky said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 5, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IT'S POVERTY THAT IMPELS IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Clarke Ash

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 565 words


You read about the thousands of immigrants piling up in Texas and

California, with no jobs, no food, no place to sleep, and your first thought

is that the immigration problem has no satisfactory solution.

We can't keep them out, and we can't let them stay. We put up tents and

soup kitchens, and we go through the motions of court hearings, but even

getting them back to their own countries seems an insurmountable task. What to
do?

I suppose the unhappy officials on the scene are doing as well as they can to
cope with the immediate situation. The trouble is that everyone is treating the
symptoms and no one is addressing the illness.

The illness is our national policy of neglect toward Latin America and the
Caribbean. Under former President Reagan we ignored the whole region except

for those few countries that seemed threatened by communism. As a result Latin
America, especially, has been sinking deeper into an economic depression for

the past eight years.

MEXICANS PREFER MEXICO

Our country never has had to worry about illegal immigration from Canada

for the excellent reason that the Canadians, like us, have no desperate need

to emigrate. The same has been generally true of Latin America and the

Caribbean, except for those few Mexicans at the bottom of the poverty scale

who work in our agricultural industry. Mexicans prefer to live in Mexico as

long as they can survive there. Most of the Latin immigrants in the present

wave are from Nicaragua, where the economy has been destroyed by chaotic

politics and a seemingly endless revolution that we sponsored.

We have been spending hundreds of millions of dollars on a tiny war in

Nicaragua while neglecting the calamitous financial problems of Brazil,

Mexico, Venezuela and the rest of the continent. Caracas, which used to be a

sophisticated, prosperous city, is erupting in riots over soaring prices and

an 80 percent inflation rate.

All right, you say, everybody preaches about aid for Latin America and

nobody does anything about it. Meanwhile, we have to do something about these
illegal immigrants, especially since they are headed for South Florida.

BORDER CONTROL ESSENTIAL

Well, there is a private political organization called FAIR, the

Federation for American Immigrant Reform, which recently published a 10-point
program that is probably about as moderate as we can expect in the

circumstances. FAIR wants a crackdown on employers of illegal aliens; a

universal telephone system to verify Social Security numbers; a $2 border

crossing user fee; a beefed-up border patrol with better fences, highway

checkpoints, high-tech devices such as night scopes and remote sensors; the

return of illegals to points deep into their own countries; and mandatory

sentences for professional smugglers.

If some of those measures make us feel uncomfortable, they should. They

certainly do not reflect the sentiment inscribed at the base of the Statue of
Liberty, but they do acknowledge the reality that a country somehow must

maintain control of its borders.

The FAIR program is aimed at that objective. But what we have is not so

much a border problem as an immigration problem. Once the waves of refugees

are headed for the border we have lost the battle.

The real solution to immigration for a country such as ours, perched as a haven
of food, shelter and jobs atop a continent of worsening poverty, is to

help restore that continent to a semblance of economic well-being.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 7, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS EDITORIAL POINTED FINGER, OFFERED NO ALTERNATIVE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 1261 words


Your editorial "Redeem Immigration and Naturalization Service policy"

implies that we Americans are heartless when we ask Central American refugees to
prove that they qualify for political asylum. You write from a lofty perch some
2,000 miles from this flood of asylum-seekers. At the very least you

might offer a better way to enforce the law rather than to point an accusing

finger at officials who are at their wits' end.

Every society has both the right and the desire to protect itself against a
rapid dilution of its cultural integrity. The results of indigestible

immigration can be seen in countries such as France and England where the

backlash against excessive immigration is giving rise to extreme right-wing

movements.

The flood of poor people crossing our borders is straining our resources

and our social fabric. Yet when INS tries to enforce a not-unreasonable law,

you point an accusing finger without offering an acceptable alternative. You

might as well point a finger at the Germans, who no longer allow Turks to

enter, or to Switzerland, which allows virtually no one to enter. Should we be
the only country not entitled to protect its cultural integrity?

Lawrence Serlin

Palm Beach Shores

LET'S CHARGE PALM BEACHERS

A TOLL TO PAY FOR BEACHES

The Florida beaches are wonderful. If we only had more beach access, like to the
walled and fenced areas in Palm Beach.

Let's erect toll booths to have any Palm Beacher leaving the island pay

maybe $25 a trip into West Palm Beach or Lantana. They could be at the end of
each bridge. Think of the beach maintenance this could help pay for.

Joan M. Vokes

Lake Worth

KENNEDY BLASPHEMES GOD

SAYING RHETT COINED `DAMN'

I thank your columnist, George McEvoy, for bringing to my attention the

blasphemous remark of the Rev. Dr. James Kennedy-- in that he has attributed

the responsibility for the D-word (damn) to a Rhett Butler. Though associated
with another cult, the reverend should know full well that it is I who

invented, and has had exclusive jurisdiction over, the ennobling concept of

damnation since the beginning of time in 4,000 B.C. In my infinite wisdom, I

declare that this, and all other blasphemy, shall not go unpunished.

GOD (a.k.a. Ruth Schisler)

Riviera Beach

WHY IS TOWER ON FRONT

AND NUNN ONLY WORTH 12A?

Why was the ongoing criticism about John Tower in big headlines on the

front page of The Palm Beach Post on Wednesday while the small revealing

article about Sam Nunn was tucked in the middle on Page 12A with a small

headline?

Donald Nelson

Lake Worth

* It is with alternating hysterical laughter and deep brooding concern that I
continue to read ongoing reports of John Tower's struggle for appointment to the
position of secretary of defense. As a combat veteran of Vietnam and a

recovering alcoholic, I feel inclined to speak for myself from a modest realm of
experience. The declaration of two glasses of wine a few weeks ago had me

rolling in the aisle. Then came dollar figures from defense contractors both

here and abroad-- my reaction to that was one word, right! And now, the

ultimate icing on the sordid cake is a public pledge to swear off the

"stuff." Would someone be kind enough to bash me on the head so that I

may awaken from this ridiculous dream about the greatness of America and her

upstanding leaders?

Jason Goodman

Boynton Beach

* I find it hard to believe that a gentleman of good standing, and one who meets
stiff criteria, cannot be confirmed because of womanizing and alcohol

use. I am glad he likes the opposite sex-- is this so unusual? And I think

everyone has a cocktail once in a while, be it at a dinner gathering or with

friends and family at Christmastime. I'd rather have Mr. Tower at the helm

than some department-store mannequin. I'm sure Mr. Nunn has no objection to a
cold beer on a bikini-blanketed beach.

Danny C. Jenkins

Lantana

* In November, the majority of people felt George Bush was qualified to run our
nation-- the highest honor that can be bestowed. If he's capable of doing this,
I certainly feel he's very capable of picking his own Cabinet.

Winnie Petterson

Tequesta

* George Bush, the master of smear campaigns, false accusations and

innuendo, is now whining over the treatment of former Sen. John Tower. The

chickens are coming home to roost, and the pot is calling the kettle black. By
the way, I have yet to hear Mr. Tower recite the Pledge of Allegiance.

George H. Rowe

Hobe Sound

ABORTION COURT FEE ARTICLE

USED DISCRIMINATORY TERMS

I am writing in response to Christine Stapleton's article about "Girl's

Court Fees $86.50 on Abortion." In this article she refers to "pro-choice

officials and abortion opponents" whom Judge Hurley spoke to. It is curious

to me why Ms. Stapleton uses euphemisms and verbal discrimination. If one side
of the abortion issue is "pro-choice," then the other side is necessarily

"pro-life." If one side is an an "abortion opponent," then the other

must be an "abortion advocate.'

This may seem like a very small issue to those not involved; however, not-
so-subtle discrimination by the press is a powerful force.

Sara Ashauer

Shepherd Care-Bethany

Lake Worth

SOCIAL SECURITY FUNDS

SHOULD BE UNTOUCHABLE

Ever since its beginning, the Social Security funds have been used as a

slush fund and a political football. All Social Security funds should be

separate from the general fund, not available for any other purpose.

James M. Newhouse

Okeechobee

SECURITY WILL BE NEEDED

IF MORE BUSING IS CALLED FOR

Applaud the Palm Beach County School Board for its efforts to achieve

racial balance in the public schools, but do not overlook an important

consideration: student safety.

The board strives to maintain optimum class size. Student/teacher ratios

are reviewed often. Teachers must never leave a classroom unattended.

Hallways, cafeterias and other common areas are protected by security

personnel. Something has been neglected that will become more important if

plans to expand busing are implemented.

Twice a day up to 56 students at a time are packed into school buses. A

population nearly double the acceptable classroom level is placed in the hands
of a person whose job is to navigate treacherous roads without mishap. Every

time the bus driver disciplines a passenger, he has to take his eyes off the

road, his mind off the traffic.

As the board considers expanding the role of transportation in achieving

its objectives, we parents must demand placement of a trained security person in
each school bus to protect our children.

Walter R. Franklin

Lake Worth

KHOMEINI-RUSHDIE A GOOD

PUBLIC RELATIONS COALITION

An open letter to Salman Rushdie . . .

Dear Mr. Rushdie:

It has been said you have apologized to the Ayatollah Khomeini for

publishing your book, The Satanic Verses, but he remains unforgiving. I cannot
blame him. Your response was disgracefully weak. You should have showered him
with your praises; who but a towering genius could have created the most

successful book promotion in the history of publishing, and with a pretty dull
book at that?

After careful reflection I can only conclude there is no real animosity

between you two, and that you will soon reveal your partnership in a new

public-relations corporation of worldwide scope.

If I am right, I would deem it a privilege to be accepted as your first

client. I have just written a book, and, after contemplating your stupefying

sales, and mine, my countenance has turned a sincere shade of green.

I assure you my aspirations for success are much more modest; a half-

million copies will fully suffice. As for a price on my head, tell the

Ayatollah not to bother; I will settle for a sprained ankle."

Robert K. Alsofrom

West Palm Beach\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 10, 1989 Friday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

BOSCH CASE HELP SOUGHT

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Gov. Bob Martinez on Thursday asked U.S. Attorney General Richard

Thornburgh to have the Immigration and Naturalization Service expedite the

Orlando Bosch case.

The anti-Castro Cuban is being detained in Miami awaiting a decision from the
immigration agency. He has been held without a hearing in the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in Dade County since May 16, 1988 when he completed a

three-month sentence for violating a 1974 parole.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Dade/Broward/STate / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 10, 1989 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FLORIDA ALIENS ENTITLED TO EQUAL JOB BENEFITS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The Florida Supreme Court on Thursday struck down a workers compensation

law that provided only $1,000 to the foreign survivors of workers killed on

the job but $100,000 to relatives who are resident aliens or U.S. or Canadian
citizens.

The justices ruled 6-1 that the relatives of Maximiano De Ayala-- all

residents and citizens of Mexico-- are entitled to $100,000 rather than the

$1,000 payment the law had required.

"Common sense dictates that he should be entitled to the same `benefits,'

regardless of the residence or status of his dependents," Justice Rosemary

Barkett wrote in the seven-page ruling.

Ayala, from a small village southeast of Guadalajara and father of seven

children, was killed March 9, 1984, in a truck accident while working for

Steve's Harvesting Inc. in St. Lucie County.

The Florida Farm Bureau Casualty Insurance Co., which provided insurance

for Steve's, sent Ayala's family a check for $1,000. The family refused the

check and filed suit, claiming that the law was illegal.

The state law prohibited foreign survivors not living in the United States from
collecting more than a $1,000 death benefit unless the survivors were

Canadian.

Richard Sneed Jr., a Fort Pierce attorney who represented Ayala's wife,

Bertha, said he was "flabbergasted" to learn that the law treated survivors

north of the border better than survivors from any other country.

Sneed learned that the Florida law-- passed in the 1920s-- was patterned

after a federal maritime act dealing with seamen on the Great Lakes

-- primarily Canadian and American citizens.

Attorney Steven Bloom, who joined the case on behalf of the United Farm

Workers of America, said the law especially discriminated against the migrant
farm workers in Palm Beach County.

"It was part of a `Jim Crow' racist system where the state intentionally

discriminated against people of color," Bloom said.

The Farm Bureau argued that the Canadian exemption was not unreasonable

because the United States and Canada share one of the largest unprotected

borders in the world. "It's not a race issue," said attorney Buck Vocelle,

former attorney for the bureau.

But Barkett saw no merit in granting special exemptions to workers from

particular countries.

"What possible state purpose would justify giving a benefit to non-

resident Canadians that is denied Mexicans?" Barkett wrote. A workers

compensation law that does not treat all workers equally "conceivably might

encourage some employers to selectively place aliens in the riskiest areas of
their business."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran Lake O

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 10, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGH COURT STRIKES LAW LIMITING FOREIGNERS' DEATH BENEFITS;
FLORIDA LAW'S $1,000 CAP DISCRIMINATES, RULING SAYS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The Florida Supreme Court on Thursday struck down a workers compensation

law that provided only $1,000 to the foreign survivors of workers killed on

the job but $100,000 to relatives who are resident aliens or U.S. or Canadian
citizens.

The justices ruled 6-1 that the relatives of Maximiano De Ayala-- all

residents and citizens of Mexico-- are entitled to $100,000, rather than the

$1,000 payment the law had required.

"Common sense dictates that he should be entitled to the same `benefits,'

regardless of the residence or status of his dependents," Justice Rosemary

Barkett wrote in the seven-page ruling.

Ayala, a father of seven children from a small village southeast of

Guadalajara, was killed March 9, 1984 in a truck accident while working for

Steve's Harvesting Inc. in St. Lucie County.

The Florida Farm Bureau Casualty Insurance Co., which provided insurance

for Steve's, sent Ayala's family a check for $1,000. The family refused the

check and filed suit, claiming the law was illegal.

The state law prohibited foreign survivors not living in the U.S. from

collecting more than a $1,000 death benefit unless the survivors were

Canadian.

Richard Sneed Jr., a Fort Pierce attorney who represented Ayala's wife,

Bertha, said he was "flabbergasted" to learn the law treated survivors north

of the border better than survivors from any other country.

Sneed learned that the Florida law-- passed in the 1920s-- was patterned

after a federal maritime act dealing with seamen on the Great Lakes

-- primarily Canadian and American citizens.

Attorney Steven Bloom-- who joined the case on behalf of the United Farm

Workers of America-- said the law especially discriminated against the migrant
farm workers in Palm Beach County.

"It was part of a Jim Crow racist system where the state intentionally

discriminated against people of color," Bloom said.

The Farm Bureau argued that the Canadian exemption was not unreasonable

because the U.S. and Canada share one of the largest unprotected borders in

the world. "It's not a race issue," said Attorney Buck Vocelle, former

attorney for Farm Bureau.

Barkett, however, saw no merit in granting special exemptions to workers

from particular countries.

"What possible state purpose would justify giving a benefit to

nonresident Canadians that is denied Mexicans?" Barkett wrote. A workers

compensation law that does not treat all workers equally, "conceivably might

encourage some employers to selectively place aliens in the riskiest areas of
their business."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 15, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL ASSISTANCE SOUGHT FOR SPIRALING REFUGEE COSTS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


South Florida officials Tuesday urged the White House, the Justice

Department and the immigration service for money to deal with the influx of

Central American refugees in recent months.

"I think we have to be encouraged; it was an encouraging response," said

Michael Krop, chairman of the Dade County School Board, after the 90-minute

closed meeting. "They professed to being very aware of the situation . . . "

Debra Anderson, deputy assistant to the president and director of inter-

governmental affairs, said no promises of assistance were made.

Dade County officials told federal officials that the number of Central

American refugee students -- particularly Nicaraguans-- are enough to require
two additional teachers per day and fill a new elementary school every 40

days.

Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., said the cost to the school system is about $5.5
million to $6 million in annual operating costs and about $105 million in

construction costs.

Sen. Bob Graham, a Democrat, said he and others urged the Department of

Health and Human Services to abandon a planned change in the targeted refugee
assistance program that would reduce Florida's allocation. He said a decision is
expected by the end of March.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 27, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS `CATCH 22' MAY DEPORT LEGAL ALIEN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: SNYDER, TEXAS


French-born Jack Pointeau did it right, which was wrong.

He entered this country legally, so he must leave. Had he entered the

country illegally, he could stay. Now it is too late to become an illegal

alien and stay. So he really is an illegal alien and must go.

"This is a Catch-22 bureaucratic boondoggle," said Donny Brown, editor

of the Snyder Daily News.

They call it the `French Fiasco.'

After selling their small, three-star hotel in Paris, the Pointeaus

entered the United States in 1981 on tourist visas. In 1982, they obtained an
investor's visa and bought a motel in San Franciso.

Pointeau later sold the motel and moved his family to Snyder. They

purchased a 50 percent interest in a motel for $212,000. Pointeau's wife,

Francoise, and the couple's four daughters became honor students in college

and high school. Pointeau joined the Rotary Club.

Now, the family must sell or surrender their motel and pack up their

possessions. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service told Pointeau,

52, that the family will be deported by April 26.

INS officials pointed to a series of alleged shortcomings, but the most

critical seemed to be that Pointeau's investment was not "substantial."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 28, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOME EXPERTS THINK AMNESTY LAW FAILED

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Some immigration experts believe the amnesty law designed to stop the flood of
illegal aliens has failed and claim there's widespread abuse by refugees

falsifying documents to get work.

Applicants who could show they worked 90 days as an agricultural worker

between May 1985 and May 1986 received six-month authorization to work in the
United States while their cases are processed.

The work authorization card has been used by to get a driver license and a
Social Security card, allowing the aliens to avoid detection.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 5, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DUTCH AIDS VICTIM REFUSED U.S. ENTRY, HELD IN COUNTY JAIL

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 85 words


Immigration officials detained Hans Paul Verhoef, 31, of Rotterdam, the

Netherlands, at the Minneapolis-St. Paul Airport after U.S. Customs Service

officials discovered the drug AZT in his baggage Sunday.

After the AZT was found, he told immigration officials he has acquired

immune deficiency syndrome. He was being held at the Scott County Jail outside
the Twin Cities area.

Verhoef, an AIDS prevention worker, was en route to San Francisco as a

delegate to the International Caucus of the seventh National AIDS Forum.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NATIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 6, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITI COUP LEADERS SEEK U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Three Haitian officers who led a failed coup attempt against their nation's
military government arrived in Miami Wednesday and asked for political asylum,
the local immigration director said.

The men, along with their families, flew in from the Dominican Republic,

said Perry Rivkind, district director of the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

"At this point I'm holding them for a while," Rivkind said. "I'm not

going to make a final determination until I talk to the Department of State."

He said a decision on whether to free the officers during asylum

proceedings could come as early as today, however.

The weekend coup attempt against the government of Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril was
led by Lt. Col. Himmler Rebu, 38, head of the crack Leopard Battalion;

Col. Philippe Biamby, 36, of the palace guard; and Col. Leonce Qualo, 35, head
of the Interior Ministry's intelligence department.

Avril ordered the three expelled from Haiti Tuesday.

Rivkind said the officers arrived with valid Haitian passports and U.S.

tourist visas allowing them to stay in the country for six months.

But by asking for asylum, they forfeited the tourist visas and could

legally be detained. Rivkind said he was intially inclined to parole them, but
after determining their high rank, decided to consult with the State

Department first.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COUNCILMAN STIRS ANGER BY TELLING IMMIGRANTS TO RETURN TO VIETNAM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, CALIF.


A city councilman conceded Thursday that he may have misspoken when he told
Vietnamese immigrants, "If you want to be South Vietnamese, go back to South

Vietnam."

Councilman Frank Fry stopped short of apologizing for the remark, which he said
was intended to suggest that immigrants need to make more of an effort to
assimilate into American society.

Some Vietnamese immigrants said they would try to recall Fry over the

remark, delivered Tuesday night before the council voted down a request for a
parade to honor South Vietnamese and Americans killed in the Vietnam War.

"We're trying to promote harmony in the city," Tien Nguyen said. "We

are observing the American way, as well as our heritage."

Fry said Thursday he had received calls from Vietnamese immigrants

supporting his statement, because they believe the immigrants should

assimilate.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 2, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CANE CUTTERS APPEAL RESIDENCY RULING

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 178 words


Lawyers representing foreign sugar cane cutters have appealed

a February ruling that denied residency for 8,000 cutters who worked in South
Florida under the H-2A immigration program, an attorney for the harvesters

said Monday.

U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan of Washington, D.C. ruled Feb. 28 that

the cane cutters were not eligible for the Special Agricultural Workers

program, which was part of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The
SAW program offered residency to seasonal workers who could prove they

harvested perishable U.S. crops for 90 days during the year ending May 1,

1986.

Once the 1986 legislation became law, Congress authorized the U.S.

Department of Agriculture to decide what crops were covered by the SAW

program. The USDA, though deeming such crops as cut flowers and Christmas

trees as perishable, excluded sugar cane.

"We will continue to pursue most of the arguments made in the lower

court," said Steven Routh, a Washington attorney representing the cane

cutters. "We will argue that the exclusion of sugar cane . . . was arbitrary

and capricious."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 10, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' VISA LOTTERY' HAS 3.2 MILLION SEEKING A CHANCE TO LIVE IN U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 3 million people from around the globe have won a chance to take

part in a computerized "visa lottery" that will give 20,000 immigrants the

opportunity to live in the United States, the State Department announced

Tuesday.

"The so-called `visa lottery' is now over -- 3.2 million people applied

successfully," department spokesman Richard Boucher said.

Boucher said winners will be chosen by a computer which will make the

selections on a random basis.

Citizens from 162 countries were eligible to apply during March and all

applicants have an equal chance of winning an immigrant visa.

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., author of the legislation that made the

program possible, "will open the first few application envelopes selected by

the computer and announce the nationalities of the applicants" at a ceremony

Monday, Boucher said.

Only the nationalities and not the names will be announced at the ceremony "as a
courtesy" to the privacy of the applicants, Jones said.

Those who do win a visa and come to the United States could apply for

citizenship if they meet the criteria, Jones said.

Under the program, 10,000 visas will be granted each year for 1991 and

1992.

Berman said the program would bring diversity to the immigrant population. Under
the normal rules for obtaining an immigrant visa, the applicant has to have a
close relative in the United States or work in a scarce profession. The program
touched off a near-tempest at posts around the world,

primarily because it opened the way for nearly anyone to come the United

States.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 16, 1989 Tuesday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

PAKISTANI MAN AMONG `VISA LOTTERY' WINNERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, VA.


An unmarried Pakistani man, an Iranian mother living in West Germany and a

bachelor from Kuwait were announced Monday as among 20,000 winners of a ticket
to the American dream.

The lucky winners of the State Department's first "visa lottery"

granting random entry into the United States were chosen by computer from

among 3.2 million foreign applicants for U.S. immigrant visas in March.

"I can't imagine another country opening up its borders for this kind of

opportunity," said Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., and the chief House sponsor

of the legislation that created the lottery last fall.

During a modest ceremony in a private computer firm's cinder block

warehouse in the Washington suburb of Merrifield, Berman opened three lottery
winners' envelopes selected at random from long rows of blue-faced file

cabinets.

The first winner, he said, was a 36-year-old man without a wife or

children from the Pakistani village of Khazana. The Pakistani Embassy said

there are two villages named Khazana.

The second envelope opened by Berman yielded the application form of a 45-
year-old woman from Iran, living in West Germany with her only child. The

third winner was identified as a single, 27-year-old Kuwaiti man.

The winners' names will be kept secret until they are notified by the

nearest U.S. diplomatic post in their home countries.

"If they haven't heard by October, they should know they haven't been

selected," said Frances Jones of the State Department's Consular Affairs

Office.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 19, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AIDS ENTRY BAN EASED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. immigration agency, widely criticized for barring entry to a Dutch man
who suffered from AIDS, will relax its policy of excluding any foreigners with
contagious diseases, government officials said Thursday.

They said the agency will issue a directive that will allow people with

AIDS to come and stay in the United States for as long as 30 days, depending

on the purpose of the trip.

They will be allowed into the country to attend AIDS conferences, for

business reasons, to visit family members or for medical treatment, the

officials said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  National News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 21, 1989 Sunday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MIAMI IMMIGRATION CHIEF EVEN HAS FOES AS FRIENDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Perry Rivkind, the immigration director who sometimes seems to be a branch

of the U.S. government unto himself, called a Haitian exile leader about the

sign outside the Krome detention center.

It read: "Reagan's Concentration Camp."

"Does that bother you?" asked the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste.

In the strongest terms, he was assured it did bother Rivkind, a fervent

admirer of Ronald Reagan and traditional American values.

The next day, the sign had been replaced.

The new one: "Rivkind's Concentration Camp."

Rivkind had to laugh when he called Jean-Juste after that one. Jean-Juste was
laughing, too. The fiery priest, who has been the outspoken leader of

Miami's Haitians for a decade, may not like Rivkind's policies, but he likes

him.

"We are friends and enemies at the same time," Jean-Juste explained.

"We tease each other and laugh together, but when we are on business we

are both devils."

For his part, Rivkind, who recently rebuked Jean-Juste publicly for

calling him "Mr. Hitler" and accusing him of Nazi tactics, promises to

invite his friend to his going-away party if he retires, as he hopes, this

year after 22 years of federal government service.

CULT OF PERSONALITY

"The Perry and Gerry Show," the ongoing exchanges between two of Miami's

most public figures, is part of the transformation of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami in the six years since Rivkind returned to his
hometown from Washington.

Somehow, the self-styled "bad-boy bureaucrat" in charge of the nation's

most volatile immigration district has built a cult of personality as he deals
with Haitians, Cubans, Nicaraguans and others flooding into this immigrant

city.

"I think Perry Rivkind has been a breath of fresh air," said Ira

Kurzban, a Miami attorney who last week filed the latest in 10 years' worth of
lawsuits challenging U.S. treatment of Haitian immigrants.

"The Miami INS district office has for a long time been a hotbed," said

Verne Jervis, chief INS spokesman in Washington. ' ' It takes a real juggling
act to try to carry out the immigration law.

"INS in Miami probably has more support there than ever before," Jervis

said of the Rivkind regime. "His openness, the access to his office are the

highest they've ever been. A number of people here (at INS headquarters)

certainly view him as a little bit of a maverick, but if you can do that and

maintain a semblance of control and order, you can get away with it."

Many in Miami like Rivkind.

While the 100,000 Haitians in the area don't necessarily buy Rivkind's

explanation that he's simply upholding the law and defending the nation's

borders, they admire his gestures of humanity, such as his 1984 order sending
immigration officers to Haiti to fetch a 9-year-old Haitian boy who was

deported while Rivkind was on vacation.

The Cubans, who with more than 800,000 in South Florida comprise the

largest Cuban community anywhere except Havana, have feted Rivkind and admire
his anti-communism. The immigration director says that if he were president,

he'd have the Marines landing on Fidel Castro's beaches tomorrow.

The Nicaraguans, more than 100,000 strong in South Florida, like Rivkind's
aversion to sending them back to what he considers a hostile, sometimes brutal
government.

SNAP DECISIONS

Meanwhile, the 59-year-old son of Russian immigrants loves his job.

Most of his 22 federal years have been in the Justice Department, but he still
recalls grimly a few months working in the Pentagon, which he found stifling.
"The worst thing about government is inertia. Congress-- it takes so long to get
anything done. The State Department-- they analyze everything to

death," Rivkind says.

Not so with Perry Abbott Rivkind.

With a dozen Nicaraguans set for deportation three years ago, Rivkind said six
were army deserters and might be executed if returned. He refused to send them
back "to a cowardly communist government."

Thus, Miami became the first immigration district to stop deporting

Nicaraguans while the U.S.-supported Contra rebels were fighting a guerrilla

war.

Rivkind today says he had been told the Justice Department planned to

change the policy. When Attorney General Edwin Messe acted, the policy already
was a year old in Miami.

Rivkind's ability to win praise for his popular actions while leaving

blame with the unpopular policies to Congress or the Washington bureaucracy

reminds some of his favorite president.

"Rivkind so managed to distance himself from the arrogant agency he works for
that he was like the Reagan of immigration, the Teflon INS man," said

Robert Boyer, an attorney who presses Nicaraguan immigration claims.

FAVORITE SUBJECTS

Rivkind, who claims unconvincingly to be surprised and flattered that a

reporter wants to visit him, is ready with a thick pile of newspaper clippings
and even family scrapbooks.

Amid all the photos of Rivkind with Presidents Reagan, Bush, Nixon and

others, there hangs a framed photo of an idyllic scene, a placid river lined

with trees and mountains. It seems light years from Rivkind's office on a

tough strip of Miami; it's near Roanoke, Va.

That's where he'll be a year from now, the divorced father of two says.

He'll be relaxing, enjoying retirement.

But he'd like to do some college teaching and maybe hit the lecture

circuit talking about immigration law and "my favorite subject-- me," he

says, laughing.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 26, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD REWARD ILLEGAL ALIENS, LAWMAKERS SAY

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bill that would grant legal status to Nicaraguan and El Salvadoran

refugees in the United States for three years failed to win approval Thursday
from a House subcommittee.

The 5-5 vote by the subcommittee on immigration, refugees and

international law means the bill will be considered without recommendation by
the full Judiciary Committee.

The new refugee status-- would allow Nicaraguans and Salvadorans who

arrived in the United States prior to March 1 to receive a work permit, but

would not qualify them for government support.

The bill would require refugees to register within 180 days of its

enactment and annual reregistration. At the end of the three-year period, the
government would decide whether to allow the refugees to remain.

Opposition came from lawmakers concerned that by granting legal status,

particularly to Salvadorans, it would reward aliens who illegally entered the
United States to improve their economic condition-- not because they feared

persecution in their homeland.

Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., said he was convinced that the majority of

Salvadoran refugees were economic-- rather than political-- refugees and

should not be granted sanctuary.

"There is simply no evidence of persecution of people returning there,"

said McCollum, who observed recent elections in El Salvador.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 9, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE PANEL OKS `SKILLED' IMMIGRATION CATEGORY

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate Judiciary Committee approved substantial changes Thursday in the
nation's immigration system, including the creation of a new category of

immigrants for admission-- people with skills that are in short supply in the
United States.

The committee's 12-2 vote sends the measure to the Senate floor, where it is
given a good chance of passage. Its chances in the House are uncertain.

The legislation would, for the first time, place a cap on annual

immigration, restricting the number of visas to 600,000, with 480,000 reserved
for family members.

The cap was assailed vigorously by Latino and Asian immigrant groups,

which asserted that the ceiling would prevent many family members from joining
relatives in the United States.

Supporters of the bill noted that the ceiling represents an increase of

110,000 visas over current levels, but opponents pointed out that under the

legislation 55,000 visas would go to the new category of skilled and

professional immigrants who do not necessarily have family ties in the United
States.

Another 54,000 visas would be allocated through a "point system" that

awards credit based on education, age and occupation. And 11,000 would be set
aside for ministers and other "special immigrants."

"It looks like we're getting more when we're getting less," said Cecilia

Munoz of the National Council of La Raza. "This legislation would completely

undermine family-sponsored immigration."

Brushing aside such objections, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a committee

member and architect of the 1986 reform of the law dealing with illegal

immigration, called the move to accommodate skilled workers and educated

professionals a way of bringing in "classic immigrants," those with

something valuable to offer the nation.

Many immigrant advocates have interpreted such comments as criticism of

the current patterns of immigration in which only about 10 percent of the

immigrants come from Europe, while huge numbers come from Latin America and

Asia.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who has been under pressure in

Massachusetts--to make European immigration easier, joined forces with Simpson
to push the legislation through the Senate.

The Soviet Union meanwhile is readying a massive reform to its

emigration laws that will allow Soviet citizens to travel abroad freely and

emigrate without having to clear the major hurdles of the past, according to a
senior official of the recent World Jewish Congress in Moscow.

Those planning to visit will be allowed to do so without first having to

secure an invitation from a "first-degree" relative, which in recent years

has meant an invitation from a parent, sister or brother, the official said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 26, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. MAY STEER SOVIET JEWS TOWARD ISRAEL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A consensus is emerging that many of the thousands of Jews leaving the

Soviet Union should be encouraged to emigrate to Israel rather than the United
States, Jewish officials say.

But advocates of such an approach are having to balance it carefully with the
long-held view of the U.S. administration and the Jewish community that

Soviet Jews should be allowed to choose where they want to resettle.

The Bush administration ordered all the agencies dealing with Soviet

refugees and immigrants to come up with ideas that will solve the crisis of

unprecedented numbers of Soviet Jews granted exit visas and seeking to

emigrate to the United States.

About 70,000 Jews will be allowed to leave the Soviet Union next year,

estimates say. If all of them are allowed to come to the United States as

refugees fleeing persecution-- the designation most desired by Soviet Jews

because it pays their relocation and resettlement costs-- the United States

will face a serious budget problem.

Administration officials say certain measures under consideration would

have the effect of forcing Soviet Jews either to go to Israel or stay in the

Soviet Union. One of the measures is a plan under which Soviets no longer

would be eligible for refugee status unless they have relatives in the United
States or an affiliation through business or educational ties.

Such a move would be a boon for Israel, which for years been seeking more Soviet
Jewish immigrants to help counter both slumping immigration rates and a rising
birth rate among the Arab countries surrounding Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 27, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHITE HOUSE OUSTS INS COMMISSIONER

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After repeatedly signaling that he was out, the Bush administration

replaced controversial Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner

Alan Nelson Monday, immediately naming his deputy as interim head of the

embattled agency.

James Buck, deputy commissioner since Sept. 20, assumes the duties of

acting commissioner, ending Nelson's often stormy seven-year tenure.

Gene McNary, the top elected official in St. Louis County, "remains the

leading candidate" to head the INS, said David Runkel, chief spokesman for

Attorney General Dick Thornburgh.

Nelson, like other top officials in the Reagan administration, had

submitted his resignation at the end of Reagan's term and continued to serve,
pending acceptance of the resignation. For five months, the Bush

administration did not accept the resignation, and Nelson did not leave.

Instead, Nelson, known as a stubborn, proud man, waged a vigorous lobbying
campaign, including a self-promotional film, to keep his job. He disputed

reports that he would be replaced.--

"Al has been an increasing embarrassment," a Department of Justice

official said Monday. "I'm surprised it took this long. He was beginning to

make them (administration officials) look impotent."

As Nelson tried to hold on to his position, his troubles mounted. Earlier this
year an internal audit by the Department of Justice, the parent agency of the
INS, lambasted it as riddled with inefficiency. At the same time, Nelson

was under fire for an INS plan to construct a 4-mile ditch at the San Diego

border and for his handling of the massive influx of Central Americans into

south Texas.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 27, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TRUE CHINESE PATRIOTS WOULD NOT IMMIGRATE

BYLINE: By PATRICK BURNS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 747 words


As 1 million students and workers crowded into Beijing's Tiananmen Square,

some 40,000 Chinese foreign students began wondering whether they could get a
visa extension to prolong their stay in the United States.

They did not have to wait long for an answer. On June 5, President Bush

announced that Chinese student visas would be extended as a matter of course.
The president's decision is unlikely to create a stampede of Chinese

illegal immigrants to the U.S. Most Chinese seem more interested in standing

up for democracy (even in the face of tanks and guns) than in coming to the

U.S. to make a quick buck. There is no higher proof of Chinese patriotism.

But patriotism and self-sacrifice are not universal sentiments. Witness

the tremendous outpouring of able-bodied men and women from Mexico, Cuba,

Korea, Nicaragua, the Philippines, El Salvador, Ireland, and a score of other
countries around the world. Little wonder these governments feel scant

pressure to reform when so many of their people would rather flee than fight.
The word among communist despots, socialist oligarchs, and right-wing

dictators is that emigration is a powerful tool for consolidating power.

"Papa Doc" and "Baby Doc" Duvalier spent 30 years encouraging

emigration of Haiti's opposition leaders. Vietnam expelled hundreds of

thousands of discontented citizens to Thailand and the U.S. And Central

America remains devoid of leadership today because its best and brightest are
flipping burgers in East Los Angeles.

In 1980, Fidel Castro marched his malcontents to the dock and taught the

world that America's chaotic immigration policies were not an act of kindness,
but a weakness to be exploited. It was not a lesson lost on China's senior

leader, Deng Xiaoping.

Former National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski reports that when

President Carter admonished Mr. Deng to let more of his people emigrate, Mr.

Deng said, "Fine. We'll let them go. Are you prepared to accept 10 million?"

In the age of glasnost and perestroika it is not hard to imagine Mikhail

Gorbachev attempting to quell civil unrest in the Soviet Union by radically

liberalizing emigration to the West. The governments of Ireland and El

Salvador have already asked the U.S. to absorb their unemployed. Who will be

next?

Advocates for Soviet Jews and Pentacostalists, Chinese dissidents,

Salvadoran peasants, =Nicaraguan Contras, and Irish emigrants all want the U. S.
to grant their groups special dispensation. Refugee resettlement

organizations clamor for new clients and new causes. If they all have their

way, we may find ourselves awash in a tide of immigrants that dwarfs anything we
have ever experienced.

We may also find that while our open door immigration policy has helped

thousands, it has effectively doomed hundreds of millions of people overseas

by removing from the political arena those persons who would agitate for

change and reform in their home countries. Instead of leading the push for

economic and political reform back home, emigres would end up as impotent

voices protesting their nation's domestic policies before embassies in far off
lands.

The best place for Contra leaders is not swilling martinis in Miami but on the
beachhead in Nicaragua. The best place for Chinese students is not in San
Francisco or Washington, but on the streets of Beijing and Shanghai. We cannot
resettle all those that have protested in Tiananmen Square, much less all of

China. We can, however, do irreparable harm to the cause of Chinese democracy by
resettling large numbers of student leaders in the U.S. before they have

won the social change they seek.

George Bush's decision to extend the visas of Chinese students at a time

when tanks are in the streets of Beijing represents a reasonable and measured
response to a sudden turn of events in China.

At the same time, however, the Bush administration should make it clear

that this extension of student visas is not a new and permanent amnesty

program. Nor should the U.S. attempt to solve China's problems by moving that
nation's population to the U.S.-- a solution that has been variously (and

seriously) recommended as a way of solving Salvadoran and Irish unemployment

and civil strife in both Nicaragua and Lebanon.

China's-- and most of the world's-- problems are beyond the scope of

solution through refugee or immigrant admissions to the U.S.. In China, the

students will tell you, change will only happen so long as those who love

their country have the courage to stay and fight for what they believe is

right.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Patrick Burns is assistant director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform in Washington. F.A.I.R. is a national non-profit
organization working to stop illegal immigration.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 28, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS INSPECTORS IN RIVIERA TARGET OF BRIBE PROBE

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A federal grand jury is investigating whether two Immigration and

Naturalization Service inspectors in Riviera Beach accepted bribes from a Palm
Beach lawyer to approve the residency application of dozens of British

nationals.

In testimony before a federal magistrate in West Palm Beach, Special Agent
Darrell Brewer of the INS Office of the Inspector General confirmed Tuesday

that inspectors Claude Alexander and James Breslin have been under

investigation for alleged corruption by the office since early 1984.

Brewer, a 10-year INS employee, was questioned Tuesday by a defense

attorney for Palm Beach lawyer Michael Blank, who was charged with conspiracy
and fraud in a federal indictment in December. The indictment also charges

Boca Raton lawyer Kerry Schwencke and British national Peter Miller with

luring 28 immigrants-- mostly British-- into the United States illegally.

Blank's attorney, Barry Levine of Washington, has asked U.S. Magistrate

Ann Vitunac to recommend the indictment be dismissed because of the

"prosecutorial misconduct" of Brewer and federal prosecutors.

A favorable recommendation by Vitunac could signal the second defeat this summer
for prosecutors-- who saw 30 counts of the indictment dismissed by U.S. District
Judge James Paine this month. Vitunac's ruling would either be

approved or overturned by Paine.

Brewer did not specify any details of the investigation at the Riviera

Beach immigration office because Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Cornell

objected to any testimony regarding grand jury investigations-- which remain

secret.

Under questioning by Levine, Brewer said he began his probe in early 1984 by
requesting "all files pertaining to the Riviera Beach office, which was

under investigation at the time."

In 1984 and 1985, nearly all of the immigration applications prepared by

Blank had been approved by immigration inspectors in Palm Beach County

-- despite the fact that many contained "canned" or "boilerplate" language

that appeared to be fraudulent, Brewer testified.

An INS official at the agency's Remote Adjudication Center in Dallas had

many of the files transferred to Brewer in Miami when officials noticed they

looked questionable, Brewer testified.

Alexander, an INS examiner and 20-year employee, adjudicates benefit

applications in the agency's Riviera Beach office, Eileen Convy, INS assistant
district supervisor, said Tuesday. Both Alexander and Breslin, a 15-year

inspector, still work at the office, Convy said.

Reached at home Tuesday night, Breslin-- who supervises the office-- said:
"There is absolutely no corruption in my office. There is absolutely no

corruption of any kind, either on my part or on the part of Mr. Alexander. I

take great exception to anybody making wild accusations of this sort.

"I have had enough of unsubstantiated allegations about my integrity, and I
don't like it," Breslin said. "If someone thinks I am corrupt and they

have evidence to that effect, let me have my day in court."

In his opening statement to Vitunac, Levine accused prosecutors of

indicting Blank on fraud charges as "retaliation" for his denial of any

participation in corruption.

"Mr. Blank said, `There is no corruption in Riviera Beach. I'm not part

of any corruption in Riviera Beach.' And the price of his saying that is

this," Levine said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 30, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GUILTY VERDICT AGAINST SHERIFF BLOCKED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A federal court jury Thursday found the Glades County sheriff guilty of

violating the civil rights of three Cuban immigrants six years ago, but a

federal judge set aside the verdict, saying the six-member jury was wrong.

The jury also found Sheriff Charles Schramm guilty of maliciously

prosecuting Raul and Rafael Rojas on Sept. 16, 1983. But jurors said Schramm

was not acting with "actual malice" when he charged the brothers with

obstructing an officer-- rendering their verdict meaningless.

U.S. District Judge Norman Roettger agreed with defense attorneys that the three
immigrants did not present enough evidence to prove the sheriff guilty of using
excessive force.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 30, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION OFFICE CLOSES

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: OKEECHOBEE


The local office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will close

permanently today, having "fulfilled its mission" as a place for illegal

immigrants to apply for residency under two temporary programs offered by

Congress.

The office, at 2900 S.W. Third Terrace in the Northlake Business Park,

has accepted almost 20,000 applications from those seeking U.S. status that

was made available through the Regular Legalization and Special Agricultural

Workers programs created by the 1986 Immigration and Control Act.

"They've essentially completed the task for which we opened the

office," said Wayne Joy, Florida's assistant director of legalization. "It

fulfilled its mission."

The Okeechobee office, one of seven opened in Florida on May 4, 1987, to
coincide with the beginning of the two programs, is the last to close.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 30, 1989 Friday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

OKEECHOBEE IMMIGRATION OFFICE FULFILLS MISSION, CLOSES

BYLINE: By SCOTT MONTGOMERY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: OKEECHOBEE


The local office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will close

permanently today, having "fulfilled its mission" as a place for illegal

immigrants to apply for residency under two temporary programs offered by

Congress.

The office, at 2900 S.W. Third Terrace in the Northlake Business Park,

has accepted almost 20,000 applications from those seeking U.S. status that

was made available through the Regular Legalization and Special Agricultural

Workers programs created by the 1986 Immigration and Control Act.

About 17,000 of the applications processed in Okeechobee were for the

agricultural workers program that offered legalization to vegetable and fruit
crop workers who could prove employment in the U.S. for at least 90 days

between May 1985 and 1986. The Regular Legalization program, open to all

illegal immigrants, required them to prove they had been permanent residents

since 1982.

"There was a real need for that office," said Wayne Joy, assistant

director of legalization in Florida.

Jake Achterberg, who runs the Okeechobee office, said things have been

winding down for a few weeks now. His staff, that at one time numbered 19, has
dropped to four. And the number of immigrants entering the office has

dwindled, so packing for the closing has been easy. During the final days

before the deadline for agricultural workers' applications in November, the

Okeechobee office saw between 600 and 800 aliens each day.

"They have been working on that backlog ever since then," Joy said.

"They've essentially completed the task for which we opened the office. It

fulfilled its mission."

And Achterberg is glad that part is over.

"This work isn't hard now," Achterberg said. "Now, it's like moving,

so it's different from regular work."

The Okeechobee office, one of seven opened in Florida on May 4, 1987 to

coincide with the beginning of the two programs, is the last to close. Offices
in Jacksonville, Perrine and Coral Gables have already shut down, and those in
Tampa, Fort Lauderdale and Hialeah will remain open for the next few years to
convert the temporary residents who have qualified to permanent resident

status, Joy said. About 172,000 applications were received around the state.

"Most of the applications we received around the country were for the

Regular Legalization program," Joy said. "But in Florida it was exactly the

reverse because Florida is an agriculture state."

When crowds were at their worst, with people forming lines by the office door at
midnight, deputies from the Okeechobee County Sheriff's Department

became a regular part of the INS routine. And for that help, Achterberg

presented Sheriff O.L. Raulerson Jr. with a plaque boasting the name of every
deputy in the department.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 24, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 CHARGED WITH SAILING CUBANS TO KEYS

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE L. JACKSON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 178 words


The Coast Guard arrested two men suspected of illegally transporting 10

Cubans to the Florida Keys Sunday, a U.S. Coast Guard official said in Miami. An
American vessel, the Captain's Lady, reported to the Coast Guard that a 35-foot
Cuban lobster boat had dropped 10 Cubans off on Sand Key about 8:30 a.m.

A 41-foot Coast Guard boat went to Sand Key, picked up the group of Cuban
migrants-- five men, four women and a baby boy-- and went after the Cuban

Sigma VII lobster boat.

With a Coast Guard helicopter hovering overhead, the Coast Guard boat

caught up with the Sigma VII 13 miles south of Sand Key shortly after 11 a.m.
After the boat's captain refused to allow Coast Guard officers to board, the
boat was taken to Coast Guard Group Key West and seized. The captain and

the one crew member on board were arrested and charged with violating

immigration laws.

The Cubans were turned over to Immigration and Naturalization Service

agents and taken to Krome Detention Center in southwest Dade County, said

Coast Guard Lt. Vincent DeLaurentis.

INS was investigating the case Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 27, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAGISTRATE: LAWYER VICTIM OF `MISCONDUCT';
FRAUD CHARGES SHOULD BE DROPPED, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A federal magistrate has recommended dismissal of conspiracy and fraud

charges against a former Palm Beach immigration lawyer, accusing a federal

prosecutor and an immigration agent of "gross misconduct" in the case.

In a strongly worded 19-page report signed Tuesday, U.S. Magistrate Ann

Vitunac recommended the dismissal of 45 charges of conspiracy and fraud

against Michael Arlen Blank, who was indicted by a federal grand jury in West
Palm Beach on Dec. 7.

"The government misled the grand jury by presenting false and misleading

statements," Vitunac wrote. "The action violates fundamental concepts of

justice."

U.S. District Judge James Paine, who is to preside over the trial of Blank and
two other men, must rule on Vituanc's findings before they take effect.

Also named in the 91-count indictment are British national Peter Kevin Miller
and Boca Raton lawyer Kerry Russell Schwencke.

Vitunac's recommendations come in the wake of a June 16 ruling by Paine

that dismisses the 18-page conspiracy count against all three men. A

government official said at the time that Paine's ruling virtually crippled

the case against the trio.

Diane Cossin, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Dexter Lehtinen in Miami,

would not comment on the magistrate's recommendation Wednesday. "It is too

soon for us to comment," Cossin said, adding prosecutors are still discussing
the implications of the report.

"The government created the crime and then misled the grand jury under

oath about it," said Barry Levine, Blank's attorney. "He did not commit this

crime. This man is innocent. He has been unfairly accused by an improper

investigation and over-reaching prosecutor.

"The government ran him out of business, and he is now bearing the

burden of that and trying to mend his life."

The magistrate's most significant finding was that Immigration and

Naturalization Service Special Agent Darrell Brewer misled grand jurors by

claiming Blank lied about his success at gaining favorable immigration status
for his clients.

"Michael Blank did have a virtually 100 percent success rate until those

very applications by Michael Blank were `blocked' by the government and left

unadjudicated," Vitunac wrote. "The government thus caused . . . Blank's

lack of success.

"This government action was clearly improper," she added. "Not only was

this government action improper, but it substantially affected the charging

decision of the grand jury."

Vitunac also criticized Brewer and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Cornell for:

* Requiring a witness to testify before a grand jury that already returned an
indictment against Blank, which is contrary to federal rules.

* Violating the attorney/client privilege of Blank's clients by obtaining
Blank's office files without their permission.

* Asking one of Blank's employees to "spy" on Blank.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 8, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIAMI IMMIGRATION OFFICE CHIEF QUITS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Outspoken Florida immigration chief Perry Rivkind announced Monday he will

resign Aug. 21 to teach criminal justice at a small college in Virginia.

Rivkind, 58, has headed the highly visible and volatile U.S. Immigration

and Naturalization office in Miami for six years. During that time, he gained a
a reputation as a strong-willed bureaucratic rebel who stood up to his

bosses.

Rivkind will become a professor at Patrick Henry Community College in

Martinsville, Va.

Ignoring federal regulations, Rivkind refused to deport Nicaraguans,

winning the support of that exile community. Meanwhile, he followed federal

policy and shipped Haitians back home.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 12, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAWYER CHARGED WITH HELPING IRANIANS OBTAIN PHONY VISAS

BYLINE: By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 265 words


A Virginia immigration lawyer living in Jupiter has been indicted by a

federal grand jury in Alexandria, Va., on 29 counts of helping to get

fraudulent visas for Iranians.

Lance Keith Levenstein, 38, who has a law office in the Northbridge Center
Pavilion in West Palm Beach but is not listed as a member of the Florida Bar,
was charged with visa fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud and obstructing agency

proceedings in the indictment delivered Tuesday.

Levenstein, a member of the Virginia Bar, could not be reached Friday at

his office in West Palm Beach or his home in Virginia.

His lawyer in Washington, Greta Van Susteren, said Levenstein will plead

not guilty Wednesday when he appears before a U.S. magistrate in Alexandria.

Van Susteren said witnesses against her client have "interests to

protect" in testifying for the government. "It's the government's business

to think all kinds of things about people," Van Susteren said of the charges.
U.S. Attorney Henry E. Hudson said agents of the State Department's

Diplomatic Security Service began their investigation after Levenstein sought an
investor visa for an Iranian client at the American Embassy in Bucharest,

Romania, in October 1986.

An investor visa permits foreign nationals to come to the U.S. for up to

one year to invest capital. Iranians are required to obtain the visa in a

third country, said Nyda Nobodborsky of the State Department.

The indictment says Levenstein falsified U.S. corporation records to show
consular officials in Romania and Turkey that his clients were substantial

investors and held controlling interests in U.S. companies.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 12, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF `TRIED TO DO THINGS WITH COMPASSION'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Florida immigration chief Perry Rivkind was a bureaucrat who did not fit

the mold. He was never shy about speaking his mind. He stood up to his bosses.
And he wasn't afraid to show compassion.

Rivkind, 58, who will step down Aug. 18 after six years as the nation's

most visible regional immigration officer, was a maverick who sought to bring a
little humanity to an agency not usually known for that quality.

Most recently, Rivkind defied his superiors by refusing to deport

Nicaraguan refugees. It made him a hero among Nicaraguan exiles.

But the motorcycle-riding former vice cop showed an unconventional

streak from the very start.

When Rivkind took over the job, in the wake of the boatlift that brought
thousands of Cubans to South Florida in 1980, the immigration office was

plagued by low morale. He was told to try to change the public's image of the
agency as a place guided by bigotry and incompetence. His first goal was to

clear out people who did not deal with immigrants in a courteous manner.

Soon afterward, he overruled his predecessor's decision to deport an 8-

year-old Haitian boy whose mother already was in Miami. Rivkind ordered

that the boy be found in Haiti and returned to the United States.

Despite that act of kindness, Rivkind found the Haitian issue to be his

most agonizing one. While he refused to deport Nicaraguans, he generally

upheld the government's policy on Haitians, deporting them in nearly every

instance. It made him unpopular in the local Haitian community, something he

agonizes over.

Rivkind, who is leaving to teach criminology at Patrick Henry Community

College in Martinsville, Va., said he wants a change-- one where he will be

more free to speak his mind on the issues of the day. "The government puts

too many restrictions on what people can say," he said.

Rivkind said he tried to be a humanitarian. "I stabilized the

immigration issues," he said. "I tried not to overreact to situations. I

didn't want to demagogue as some people do. I tried to do things with

compassion and humanity."

He added: "I think people were satisfied with me because I conducted

myself as a gentleman and because I think my instincts were correct."

Maritza Herrera, director of the Nicaraguan American Foundation, is a big
Rivkind fan. "I will feel sad when he leaves," she said.

But local Haitian leaders believe Rivkind let them down. They say he just
knuckled under to the Republican party's agenda. "He's a straightforward

man," said the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, head of the Haitian Refugee Center.

"He's done some great things to help us in humanitarian cases. But he's a

political man too. He had to follow the party line. The line was to keep the

Haitians out. Haitians usually vote Democratic. Cubans vote Republican."

Rivkind noted that Congress has yet to pass laws giving Haitians special
consideration, as it did for Cubans. As for Nicaraguans, he said, "we fought

a war there. Nicaraguans were given a special status. They get to appear

before a review board before being deported. This is a foreign policy issue."
Rivkind complained that "there are people who demagogue this issue.

Well, why don't they go legislate it?"

One of Rivkind's most controversial cases, that of anti-Castro terrorist Orlando
Bosch, was taken away from him. The INS gave Rivkind the authority to decide
whether Bosch should be allowed to stay in the United States, but took the
decision away from him when it learned he was leaning towards letting

Bosch stay.

Now Rivkind says he has changed his opinion after hearing that Bosch

supported the bombing of a Cuban jetliner in 1976. Bosch was charged with the
bombing but was acquitted three times in a Venezuelan court. "Anybody who

gives sympathy for blowing up aircrafts shouldn't stay in the United States," he
said.

Rivkind said Florida residents ought to look upon immigration as a

positive force. "The world is not going to fall apart because people are

coming here from other countries," he said. "Immigration to Florida over the

years has been very beneficial to this state and to its people."

The view that the Latins have brought crime to Miami should be rejected,

he said. "Latins didn't bring the crime here," he said. "I was a policeman

here for 10 years. Miami has always had a high crime rate."

Rivkind added: "Immigration isn't the problem. The problem in Florida is going
to be population growth-- from other states as well as other countries. There
are something like 900 people a day moving to this state from the north.
Everybody wants to live in Florida."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 MUG/ 1 B&W)
 BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer ' I think people were satisfied with me because
I conducted myself as a gentleman,' Perry Rivkind says after six years with the
INS.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 7, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ORDERS 7 SIKHS DETAINED AS WITNESSES;
JAIL WON'T BE FORCED TO ALLOW TURBANS

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Seven illegal immigrants from India said nothing when a federal magistrate

ordered they be detained as witnesses against two men accused of smuggling

them into Lake Worth Inlet-- even though they've been charged with nothing.

"I guess we got caught," one man said to a Hindi translator Wednesday.

The immigrants had only one request. They wanted U.S. Magistrate Ann

Vitunac to ask their jailers to allow them to wear turbans while they remain

imprisoned at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Dade County.

"My clients are Sikhs, and part of their religious heritage is the

wearing of turbans," said Assistant Federal Public Defender David Lee

Brannon. "In that respect, it is analogous in the Jewish faith to the wearing of
yarmulkes.

"I ask the court in its detention order to use the persuasive powers of

the court to consider letting them wear turbans," Brannon said.

Vitunac said that while she sympathizes with the seven prisoners, she

cannot order-- or even try to persuade-- prison officials to allow the

turbans.

"The court gives total respect and deference to one's religious

beliefs," Vitunac said. "The court also gives respect and deference to

prison custodians. For prison custodians, there is a concern that you will

hide weapons in that turban.

"For that reason, the higher courts have ruled that, even though it may

be one's religious belief not to shave one's beard, jail custodians can

require that beards be shaved so that no weapon be concealed in the beard. So I
apologize to you for this intrusion on your religious belief. But I must, in
deference to the security of the institution."

Sikhism is a 500-year-old religion, widely practiced in the Punjab region of
India, in which adherents shun the Indian caste system, believe in the

equality of women, practice vegetarianism and typically wake two hours before
dawn to pray and meditate.

Khurshee Masih, Bhima Ram, Raman Shankar, Harpal Singh, Mohinder Beant

Singh, Mohinder Tara Singh and Sucha Singh-- all Sikhs -- were arrested by the
U.S. Coast Guard Aug. 27 after their vessel entered the Lake Worth Inlet.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Gonzalez asked Vitunac to detain the seven men
as witnesses against David Anthony Dames and Charles Gary Gilbert, two

Bahamians charged with illegally smuggling the seven Sikhs from Freeport to

West Palm Beach.

Vitunac gave prosecutors 90 days to obtain sworn statements from the seven
witnesses to be used as evidence at Dames and Gilbert's trial. When the

statements are obtained, the men may be released on immigration bonds pending a
determination of their eligibility to remain in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 15, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HARVESTER SHORTAGE POSSIBLE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: LAKELAND


A tightening of immigration laws has led to concerns of a possible shortage of
workers to harvest Florida citrus.

Some states along the Eastern seaboard have reported crop losses because

of a shortage of harvesters, directors of Florida Citrus Mutual have been

told.

The federal program enacted in 1986 grants amnesty to many illegal aliens,
tempting them to seek employment outside agriculture, said Mutual's executive
vice president Bobby McKown.

"The labor pool appears to be getting tighter," he told leaders of the

grower association, the state's largest with 12,400 members.

The immigration program's effect on agriculture has been delayed because

the deadline for enforcement in the industry was put off until early this

year, so growers are uncertain about the prospects.

Mike Carlton, Mutual's grower division director, reported as much as 30

percent of the spring pickle crop in North Carolina was lost because of a lack
of laborers.

"We can't say if it will translate into the same situation here, but we

will keep an eye on it," he said.

Some of the same workers from Mexico who harvest vegetables in North

Carolina also pick citrus and vegetables in Florida as they move from state to
state with the maturing crops.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 15, 1989 Friday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

STOP CHAIN IMMIGRATION BEFORE AMERICA IS SWAMPED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 342 words


The Senate, under pressure from Hispanic, Asian and other special-interest

groups, has created destructive new loopholes that would bring massive

increases in immigration. S.358 is the Senate designation of a new immigration
bill that is now headed for the House of Representatives. If the bill passes,
chain migration will accelerate unabated. Chain migration is the result of our
current immigration preference system, which allows new immigrants to bring in
not only close relatives but also cousins, aunts and in-laws, who, in turn,

can bring in their relatives in a never-ending chain.

We believe that it is crucial for us to set realistic limits on legal

immigration and to make entry requirements universally fair. Therefore, we

urge:

* End chain migration-- the system of favoritism that allows distant

relatives of Americans preference in coming here.

* Limit legal immigration by imposing a firm ceiling on the number of

immigrants we will take each year.

* Stand firm against any new amnesties for the relatives of the illegal

aliens who received amnesty in 1986.

A Roper poll indicated that 80 percent favored reductions in legal

immigration. We must keep sending this message to Washington.

Tom Tomlinson, president

Florida Zero Population Growth

Palm City

UNIONS OUTDATED NOW;

WORKER INCENTIVES BETTER

I find union leader George Hudspeth's one-sided article most amusing. He talks
so much about union-busting but says nothing about the horrors unions can and do
inflict on companies and strike-breakers.

He talks about all the benefits unions have gained (many would have come

anyway). But what about the high wage and benefit demands that have priced

American products right off the market?

Unions have gained many things for workers, but unions are outdated.

Workers are better off now when they work with and not against their

employers. Earning stock in the company, being involved in company decisions,
and other such incentives are a better response than unions.

Let's use our best efforts to keep America the strongest nation in the

world.

Norm Uber

Hobe Sound\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 18, 1989 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EAST GERMANY CONFISCATING PASSPORTS, REFUGEES SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY


East German and Czechoslovak authorities have begun seizing passports to

stop the flood of refugees fleeing to the West, East German emigres said

Sunday.

Hungary's foreign minister, meanwhile, defended his country's decision to aid
the immigrant exodus and said the Warsaw Pact should stick to military

defense and not dictate ideology or foreign policy to its members.

And the Hungarian ambassador to the United States Sunday denied Western

speculation that the Kremlin had given prior approval to his government's

decision to open its borders to East Germans fleeing to the West.

Ambassador Peter Varkonyi said, ' ' Of course, there is a diplomatic way of

consultation and information, but the decision was taken in Budapest," the

Hungarian capital.

In West Germany, officials said they registered 1,400 new East German

refugees during the weekend, bringing to more than 16,000 the number of East

Germans who have arrived since Hungary threw open its borders to the West one
week ago.

East German officials have said they would not crack down on visas for

citizens wishing to visit Hungary. But refugees and charity workers at camps

in Hungary said travel documents were in fact being seized.

"More and more people are telling us that their visas are being taken

from them," said Wolfgang Wagner, head of the West German Maltese Aid

Service. "Some have told me that state security had come to their apartments

to take the visas."

Others were forced off East German and Czechoslovak trains and returned

home, Wagner said. A growing number were forced to swim the Danube "or find

other illegal means of coming here," he said.

A 25-year-old man from East Berlin said he and 15 others entered Hungary

Saturday on foot after crowding into three cars and crashing through several

Czechoslovak border barriers at the Rajka crossing, about 85 miles northwest

of Budapest.

He said police in Bratislava took away their travel documents, and at one point
they were held at gunpoint until they pledged they would not head toward the
Hungarian border.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 29, 1989 Friday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

OFFICIALS APPREHEND 6 CRIMINAL ALIENS FOR DEPORTATION;
MORE ARRESTS EXPECTED IN OPERATION CLEAN UP

BYLINE: By DEAN JONES, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


Officers from four agencies have arrested six aliens convicted of various

crimes and are looking for others.

Officials plan to send those arrested to a federal Immigration and

Naturalization Service detention facility in Oakdale, La., for deportation

proceedings.

Mark Briesemeister, INS supervisory special agent, said five of the

aliens, some of whom were in the United States illegally, were arrested

between 1 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. Thursday, while the sixth was picked up in Opa-

locka the night before.

Briesemeister said 10 INS special agents worked in four-man teams with eight
Belle Glade police officers and the Glades Multi-Agency Narcotics Task Force,
made up of four Belle Glade officers, one Pahokee officer and three sheriff's
deputies.

More arrests are expected as part of Operation Clean Up, Briesemeister said,
although he refused to say how many.

Briesemeister said the arrests were part of the INS' alien criminal

apprehension program. He said the suspects violated the Immigration and

Nationality Act by being convicted of crimes while living in the United

States.

Belle Glade police and the Florida Department of Corrections Parole and

Probation Office in Belle Glade have been providing the INS district office in
Miami with a list of those believed deportable.

"What we're aiming at," said Belle Glade Detective Lt. Jack Fulenwider,

"is aliens who are guilty of dealing drugs. This isn't the finish, but it

is a good start."

Wesner St. Fluer of Haiti was picked up Wednesday night in Opa-locka. He

was convicted of sale of cocaine in 1986 as part of Operation Rock Star in

Belle Glade.

Arrested Thursday were:

* Lydon Campbell of Jamaica, who was convicted in 1986 of selling marijuana. *
Jean Claude Mila, a Haitian convicted in 1988 of two counts of battery on
police.

* Rupert Barnett, a Jamaican convicted in 1986 of selling marijuana.

* Kenneth Roy Brown, a Jamaican convicted in August of carrying a concealed
firearm.

* Humberto Moya, a Cuban convicted in February in Dade County of selling

marijuana.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 30, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL SEEKS $400 MILLION LOAN BACKING;
U.S.: SOVIET JEWS' HOMES CANNOT BE IN TERRITORIES

BYLINE: By MARCIA KUNSTEL, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Israel has asked the U.S. government to guarantee $400 million in loans to

house an expected influx of Soviet Jewish immigrants but has raised sharp

congressional questions by refusing to keep new emigre settlements out of the
occupied territories.

Israeli Finance Minister Shimon Peres outlined the proposal in a closed

meeting with congressmen this week. He was asked to pledge that Israel not

direct the new Soviet immigrants to homes in the West Bank or Gaza Strip,

whether or not those homes were financed by U.S.-guaranteed loans.

American policy prohibits the use in the territories of the $3 billion in U.S.
aid that Israel receives annually.

Some congressmen were described as uneasy with Peres' refusal to make such a
promise, as well as with the large amount of the request.

"This is a very targeted loan program. We have to know more about the

character of the (Israeli) program-- where will the housing be built, who will
get it, will they meet the income guidelines," a congressional staff member

said Friday.

He said it is very unlikely that Israel will get the full $400 million

guarantee it requested and virtually impossible that it will come all at one

time. He suggested an initial installment of $40 million to $50 million is

more realistic, followed by later guarantees as the Israeli program proceeds

over several years.

The housing loan guarantee program falls under the U.S. Agency for

International Development, which is authorized by Congress to guarantee a

worldwide total of only $100 million in loans for fiscal year 1990, according to
USAID spokesman John Metelsky. The housing is supposed to be built in

developing countries for low-income residents, usually in urban areas.

Peres admitted before leaving Washington Thursday that he had been unable to
promise the congressmen that all the housing for Soviet emigres will be

built within the "green line," the boundary which separates Israel from the

Arab territories it occupied after the 1967 war.

Yet he seemed confident that the deal would go through. "Mr. Peres left

here with great optimism, saying he believes the administration will agree,"

said Ruth Yaron, press counselor at the Israeli Embassy.

Yaron explained that the loans are only one part of a $3 billion Israeli program
to absorb an expected 100,000 Soviet Jewish emigres during the next

three years. The American-backed loans would not finance housing in the

territories, she said, but other sources of money might be used to build homes
in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

She said $2 billion for immigrant needs is to be supplied directly from

the Israeli budget. The other $1 billion is to come from $600 million in

contributions worldwide and the $400 million in loans made under U.S.

government guarantee.

Yaron emphasized, as she said Peres did throughout his trip, that the

loan guarantees are not an additional grant of money to Israel that would be

taken from the U.S. budget.

Matelsky of USAID said that with a U.S. government guarantee, private

American lenders make loans "at rates that reflect the guarantee," which are

lower rates than normally available.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 4, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DON'T BETRAY EMIGRES;
U.S. SHOULD GRANT SOVIET JEWS ENTRY, NOT MONEY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 384 words


Everybody wants the Soviet Jews. The United States wants them in Israel.

Israel wants them-- for a price. And the Soviet Union simply wants them out.

The U.S., which over the years attacked the Soviet Union for its

repression of the Jews, has let its hypocrisy show by changing immigration

rules to discourage them from coming to this country in great numbers.

Israel, which was created as the Zionist homeland but which has seen 85

percent of all Jews leaving the Soviet Union on Israeli visas go instead to

the U.S., wants these emigres desperately enough to seek at least $400 million
in resettlement loan guarantees from the U.S. It may eventually ask for $3

billion if enough refugees arrive. Israel admits that some of the money may be
spent to settle refugees on the West Bank, where the last thing the U.S. wants
is more settlements to distract dawdling peace negotiations.

And Mikhail Gorbachev, for all his criticism at home, remains capable of

putting the U.S. on the diplomatic defensive. By calling America's bluff, Mr.
Gorbachev rids himself of a problem and presents himself to the world as a

liberator.

President Bush can set things right by rescinding the new restrictions on
immigration of Soviet Jews. We made their cause an issue, and we cannot

disavow responsibility.

He should not, however, pay for resettlement in this country or in Israel,
whether directly or in the form of loan guarantees. The Israel lobby, with

dire predictions of what the many new refugees will mean in a country with

high unemployment, will seek relief. But sending loans or grants to increase

settlements on the West Bank would contradict our foreign policy. Also, parts of
the U.S.-- including Florida-- still wait for the first check from

Washington to pay for the refugees who have arrived in the past decade.

The pressure on the American government to pay for the emigres to go to

Israel will come from abroad and at home. Israel itself, knowing that more

people leave the country than arrive, sees an essential population

transfusion. American Jews, divided on the question of where the Soviet

refugees should go, may see a way to fulfill their mission of freeing the

Soviet refugees while fortifying the Jewish state. Which, to Israel's dismay,
they support with their hearts and their money-- but not their legal

residences.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 4, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHARGES OF DEFRAUDING BRITISH IMMIGRANTS TO BE DROPPED;
PROSECUTORS FEEL CASE CRIPPLED

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


U.S. Attorney Dexter Lehtinen has asked a federal judge to dismiss an

indictment against a British national charged with defrauding dozens of

British citizens he persuaded to immigrate illegally to the United States.

In a motion filed last week, Lehtinen said dismissing the charges against
British national Peter Kevin Miller - as well as codefendants Michael Arlen

Blank, a Palm Beach lawyer, and Kerry Russell Schwencke, a Boca Raton lawyer

- would serve "the ultimate interest of justice."

Miller, 39, Blank, 38, and Schwencke, 37, were charged by a federal grand jury
in West Palm Beach on Dec. 8 with luring at least 28 British citizens to the
Unites States by fraudulently claiming that a $75,000 investment in one of
Miller's firms would qualify them for permanent residency.

But on July 25, a federal magistrate recommended that U.S. District Judge James
C. Paine dismiss the charges against Blank, accusing a federal

prosecutor and an agent with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

of "gross misconduct."

In a strongly worded report, U.S. Magistrate Ann E. Vitunac accused the

government of "presenting false and misleading statements" to the grand

jury.

Vitunac's report came a little more than a month after a ruling by Paine

that dismissed the conspiracy charge against the three men - effectively

crippling the government's case.

Lehtinen wrote in his motion that prosecutors strongly disagreed with many of
Vitunac's findings but were concerned they could not win the case before a jury.

"Following unusual controversy...senior supervisory attorneys of the

United States Attorney's Office undertook an exhaustive review of this case,"
Lehtinen wrote in the motion.

"While not agreeing with all of the magistrate's conclusions, the United

States Attorney's Office has concluded that...this prosecution as presently

structured ought not to continue," he added.

Assistant Federal Public Defender Dave Lee Brannon, who represents Miller, could
not be reached for comment. Barry Levine, who represents Blank, also

could not be reached.

Michael Salnick, a West Palm Beach lawyer who represents Schwencke, said

he was particularly pleased with a footnote in the motion stating that

evidence gathered in the case "does not warrant the sanction of criminal

prosecution."

"That is something I've known since the very first day I met Kerry

Schwencke," Salnick said.

"At all times that Kerry Schwencke practiced law

which is what he is best at doing-- he certainly was not part of any

conspiracy," Salnick said. "For that reason, the government's conclusion

pleases me, and certainly lifts a cloud off of Kerry Schwenchke."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 5, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONFEREES CUT $555 MILLION FROM ALIEN FUND

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service, Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Overcoming strong opposition from heavily affected states, House and Senate
negotiators agreed Wednesday to cut $555 million from a fund set up to help

newly legalized immigrants obtain permanent U.S. residency.

A conference committee agreed to make available just $445 million of the

$1 billion previously authorized for fiscal year 1990, which began Sunday.

For California, home to the most immigrants, the decision means the loss

of about $320 million in expected federal money.

The negotiators from the House and Senate appropriations committees also

agreed to scuttle a Senate-approved amendment that would have restored the

cuts in fiscal year 1991.

However, in a compromise, the House-Senate conference committee informally
consented to a proposal by Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., to restore the money in
1992.

Berman said he expected the conference committee to formally approve the
compromise today.

Other California legislators also denounced the outcome .

The cut was from a $1 billion-a-year, four-year fund established in 1986, when
Congress granted amnesty to about 3 million illegal aliens.

Conference committee members who supported the cuts argued that the

original appropriation was too much. Even with the cut, they said, the states
will still have $1.9 billion available in fiscal 1990.

"We don't want to take anything away from Florida, from Texas, or

California," Rep. Silvio O. Conte, R-Mass., said. "But these states want to

have a credit card in their pockets to use when they like."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 6, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BOSCH CASE FAULTED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Attorneys for jailed anti-Castro militant Orlando Bosch argued Thursday

that the U.S. Justice Department overstepped its authority in June when it

ordered Bosch deported.

Bosch's attorney, Hank Adorno, told U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler

that the Justice Department did not have the right to review or reverse a

ruling by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service that would have

enabled Bosch to avoid deportation.

Justice Department officials said Bosch is a terrorist.

Hoeveler said he would rule on the Justice Department's role in two

weeks.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 7, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MISSING SOVIET VIOLINIST SHOWS UP IN SAVANNAH

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: SAVANNAH, GA.


One of three Soviet musicians who disappeared while visiting the Baltimore

area last month with a string ensemble has turned up in Savannah, where he

says he hopes to win asylum.

Violinist Yuri Alexov, 28, disappeared Sept. 28 while visiting Towson

State University with the Leningrad State Conservatory, university spokeswoman
Kathy Williams said Friday. Another member of the group, Mikhail Istomin,

disappeared the same day, and Pyotr Zaytsev, 19, disappeared Sept. 22, she

said.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said it was not their

practice to comment on whether any application for asylum had been made, but a
Savannah resident who is assisting Alexov said the violinist has been told he
will be allowed to remain in the country.

Misha Gubenko, an engineer who emigrated to Savannah from the Soviet Union 10
years ago, said Friday that Alexov had spoken with INS officials in

Baltimore and was told to expect papers allowing him to stay.

Gubenko's son, Alex, who served as interpreter for Alexov during a news

conference in Savannah Thursday, said Alexov had been "thinking of ways to

get out" for years.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 7, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHINESE STUDENTS GIVEN U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Two Chinese students who demonstrated in Japan on behalf of the pro-

democracy movement were granted asylum Friday in the United States by an

immigration judge who said they were likely to be persecuted if forced to

return home.

The ruling may serve as a precedent for other overseas Chinese students

who seek asylum in the United States, said a lawyer for the two students, Luo
Jian Guang, 32, and Hoy Yu Yi, 27.

"This is going to have an impact on other students outside of China,"

said Eugene Wong, the attorney.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 14, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DRUG-FIGHTING MARINES TO SECURE MEXICAN BORDER

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a new move to expand the military's role in fighting drug traffic, the

Marines Friday agreed to join the Immigration and Naturalization Service in

conducting training and surveillance operations along the southwest border of
the United States.

The announcement of the agreement, which would put Marines on the front

lines of the drug war for the first time, comes as Secretary of Defense Dick

Cheney ponders an Army proposal to establish a special military task force at
Fort Bliss, Texas.

The proposed military organization, to be called "Joint Task Force 6,"

would help inspect cargo, conduct reconnaissance operations and ferry drug

enforcement agents on raids along the border between the United States and

Mexico, Pentagon officials said.

Though not yet approved by Cheney, the Army proposal is the work of Gen.

Colin Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who has pushed for a
rethinking of the military's role in the fight against drugs. Powell devised

the plan while he was commander of the U.S. Forces Command.

In disclosing the Army's blueprint for the coming decade Thursday, Army

Chief of Staff Gen. Carl Vuono emphasized the importance of the new drug-

fighting mission, saying it "is not just going to be a 1990 issue."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 26, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA SEEKS REFUGEE AID FOR NICARAGUANS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Florida delegation Wednesday urged President Bush to provide federal

relief to local agencies and communities coping with the large influx of

Nicaraguan refugees.

The letter, drafted by Sen. Connie Mack, a Republican, and signed by

fellow Sen. Bob Graham, a Democrat, and the state's 19-member House

delegation, urged Bush to make an authorized-- but never financed-- $35

million emergency immigration fund a top priority in his 1991 budget.

The lawmakers also asked Bush to support legislation backed by the

delegation which would allow the release of up to $20 million from the

emergency funds-- without a formal declaration of emergency -- whenever

immigration officials in any district office received 1,000 more asylum

requests than during the previous calendar quarter.

The letter noted that the estimated impact of the Nicaraguan immigration

on Florida "in health care, police, corrections and rehabilitation services

are as high as $20 million over 12 months."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 MUGS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 17, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHARGES THAT TRIO ILLEGALLY LURED BRITONS TO U.S. DISMISSED;
FINDING OF `GROSS MISCONDUCT' BY AGENTS UPHELD

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A federal judge Thursday dismissed a year-old indictment against a British

national and two Palm Beach County lawyers accused of earning more than $2

million by defrauding dozens of British citizens they persuaded to immigrate

illegally to the United States.

U.S. District Judge James C. Paine threw out a 91-count indictment that

charged Peter Kevin Miller, 39, with luring at least 28 British citizens to

the United States by fraudulently claiming that a $75,000 investment in one of
his West Palm Beach firms would qualify them for permanent residency.

Paine's ruling dismisses the charges against Michael Arlen Blank, a Palm

Beach lawyer, and Kerry Russell Schwencke, a Boca Raton lawyer, who were

accused of scheming with Miller by offering fraudulent legal advice to

Miller's would-be investors.

The ruling also adopts the findings of U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac, who,

in a 19-page report in July, accused the government of "gross misconduct" by

"presenting false and misleading statements" to grand jurors who indicted

the three.

Vitunac's most significant finding was that a federal agent misled grand

jurors by claiming Blank lied about his success at gaining favorable

immigration status for his clients. Blank had close to a 100 percent success
rate until the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service began holding up

his clients' applications in connection with its investigation, Vitunac wrote.
Paine's two-page order follows a motion filed a month ago by U.S. Attorney
Dexter Lehtinen, South Florida's chief federal prosecutor. In late September,
Lehtinen had asked Paine to dismiss the indictment, stating the dismissal

would serve "the ultimate interest of justice."

Barry Levine, a Washington, D.C. attorney representing Blank, lashed out

at the government Thursday, criticizing immigration agents and prosecutors for
"defiantly trespassing" on Blank's life. "What they did was designed to

be ruinous to Michael Blank. Who will restore that which they took?"

"Michael Blank was totally vindicated as a matter of law, and we intend

to vindicate him as a matter of fact," Levine said.

Both Schwencke, 37, and Blank, 38, had been released on bail in December, when
they surrendered to immigration agents. Miller has been detained at the

Metropolitan Correctional Center in Dade County since Oct. 8, 1988, when he

was arrested at Los Angeles International Airport.

Despite Paine's ruling, Miller will remain in jail, awaiting a

determination of his immigration status. INS agents have asked that he be

deported, citing the fraud charges, said his lawyer, Assistant Federal Public
Defender Dave Lee Brannon.

"We are relieved that the situation finally has been resolved, as it

should have been in the beginning," Brannon said Thursday.

"I hope immigration will take the appropriate action, to let Peter stay

here with his wife and child, who the government has kept him away from,"

Brannon said, referring to Miller's immigration status.

Lehtinen would not discuss the case Thursday.

In his Sept. 29 motion, Lehtinen said prosecutors strongly disagreed with many
of Vitunac's findings but were concerned they could not win the case

before a jury.

Schwencke's attorney, Michael Salnick, lauded the judge's order.

"The decision reached by Judge Paine-- and the result it will have on

Kerry Schwencke's life, practice, family, and standing in the community -- is
probably one of the best decisions I've ever heard," Salnick said. "It

certainly renews my faith in the criminal justice system."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 18, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT JEWS GET AID

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The American Jewish Committee has launched a broadened program to deal with
Jewish immigration from the Soviet Union, acknowledging that it will take a

"prodigious effort and commitment" by U.S. Jews.

"At this historic moment of exodus and reception, we should do no less,"

said the AJC's executive council in approving the multipronged program,

including help both to those resettling in America and Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  RELIGION NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 18, 1989 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAIL BINDS IMMIGRANTS FREES SUSPECT

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Ten Haitian immigrants who tried unsuccessfully to enter the United States

last month have remained in jail for 45 days while the man charged with

smuggling them illegally is free on bond.

Until Friday, the eight men and two women were held as material witnesses to a
crime. Now, they will be held in jail to await deportation back to Haiti. U.S.
Magistrate Ann Vitunac Friday released the aliens on their promise to appear as
witnesses against the Bahamian man charged with smuggling them

illegally into the United States. But all 10 are likely to remain jailed

because they are unable to post the $5,000 bail set by an immigration judge.

The 10 refugees were picked up by the U.S. Border Patrol Oct. 1 when the

32-foot fishing boat they were in beached near Sloan's Curve in Palm Beach.

Three of the refugees told Border Patrol agents they had paid a man $2,000 for
the trip from the Bahamas to Miami, a federal agent said.

Stephen Sweeting, 25, from Hope Town in the Abacos chain, was charged with alien
smuggling and released by Vitunac Oct. 10 on $150,000 bail.

"We would just like to say for the record, your honor, that it is ironic

that the material witnesses were detained by the government for 45 days, yet

the defendant who is charged with bringing them into the country illegally has
been released on bail," said Assistant Federal Public Defender Carol Vlack

Topor, who represents nine of the refugees.

One by one, the 10 Haitians appeared before Vitunac Friday to be told they were
free to leave the Krome detention center in Dade County as long as a

friend or relative signs a surety bond promising to pay $20,000 if the refugee
flees.

All of the prisoners were clad in short-sleeve, orange immigration

jumpsuits. The eight men were shackled by leg irons.

"They gave me a bond of $5,000, but I cannot pay that," said Exanter St.

Louis.

"That's not pending before this court," Vitunac replied. "You'll have

to take that up with immigration."

"The immigration judge told me to tell you he is a very small judge,"

said another man, Rony Joseph. "You are a big judge, and you could tell him

to release me."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 26, 1989 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP DELAYED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A backlog of 70,000 cases is delaying applications for citizenship with the
Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The backlog has pushed the U.S. government to create a task force to

review old cases and prompted two Florida congressmen to call for an

investigation by the General Accounting Office.

Naturalization applications filed in Florida are processed in Miami, Tampa and
Jacksonville, where they take up to 18 months, said Duke Austin, INS

spokesman in Washington. Other immigration centers across the country

generally take three to six months to do the same work.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 7, 1989 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AN IMMIGRATION TWIST;
NADIA CAN `DEFECT' FOR LOVE; NEEDY TURNED AWAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 345 words


Let's say that a 28-year-old Romanian woman applied to the United States

for political asylum and gave the following reasons: She wanted to marry an

American man, even though he was married and had four children of his own; she
wanted to live in South Florida; and she wanted to make a movie about her

life.

What are the chances that such a woman's case would be looked upon

favorably? Clearly, those are not the motives one would assume our government
would consider virtuous for defectors. Ah, but if that woman happened to be a
famous ex-gymnast whose "defection" would embarrass the still staunchly

communist Romanian government . . . why, we might just flip over the idea.

There is no evidence that Nadia Comaneci has ever made any political moves as
dangerous as her routines on the balance beam when she performed as an

Olympic gold-medal gymnast for her country. But only a week after fleeing, she
appeared on the arm of Constantin Panait, a 34-year-old countryman who lives

in Hallandale. With his wife and four children. Or did. She explained that she
wanted to make a movie of her life. Starring herself.

Ms. Comaneci did maintain that she had been thinking of leaving her

country for several years. Speaking to a London newspaper, she did describe a
fairly arduous trek to the Hungarian border. And she did say that freedom

means "to do what you want," which in her case should be self-evident. It's

hard to watch scenes from this morality play-- jilted wife besieged by

reporters-- and not wonder yet again why U.S. immigration policy is about as

confusing as the nation's tax code-- and just as fair.

Many Soviet Jews spent years living under harsh conditions simply because of
their faith. But we don't invite them to come here. Central American

peasants threatened with death by soldiers on both sides of bloody civil wars
flee to jobs in South Florida. But we try to send them back. Haitians try to

leave a country whose repressive government was supported by the U.S. We

intercept their boats and send them back. Have any of these people ever

thought of taking up gymnastics?

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 19, 1989 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PAIR PLANS TO ADOPT 28 HAITIAN KIDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An Indiana missionary couple stopped here Monday on their way home with 28

Haitian children they intend to adopt and raise as a single family.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service granted the children, ages 1 to 14,
special holiday parole status allowing them entry with Dan and Kathy

Blackburn.

"Cases like the Blackburns' show us that the law can be administered with

heart," said INS Commissioner Gene McNary. "We would have made the same

decision at any time of year, but getting the family home before Christmas

made it all the more satisfying."

The Blackburns and the children had fled from Haiti across the border to

the Dominican Republic in 1987 to escape political turmoil when the Duvalier

government collapsed.

Monday they flew into Miami, where the children, some clutching stuffed

animals, played and watched planes take off while the couple took care of

last-minute red tape.

They then boarded a flight to Indianapolis, with a final destination of

Elizabethtown, Ind.

The children were granted humanitarian parole by McNary because they were
ineligible for entry under any other immigration category. Under INS law, the
commissioner may allow an otherwise inadmissible alien to enter the country

temporarily for humanitarian reasons, or when such entry is in the national

interest.

The Christian Evangelical missionaries went to Haiti in 1976 with their

two sons and started a ministry in a small mountain village where they cared

for sick or abandoned children who were brought to their home. They left in

1987 after threats of death from revolutionaries.

Since then, they have been trying to find a way to legally adopt the

children and return with them to Indiana.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 15, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JEWS ASKED FOR $1 BILLION TO AID SOVIETS IN ISRAEL

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


As Israel anticipates a leap in immigration from the Soviet Union, Jews

worldwide will be asked this week to contribute $1 billion over the next five
years to help house, employ, educate and care for the refugees.

Two-thirds of that money, which doubles the donors' special contributions for
new immigrants, is expected to come from the United States.

Simcha Dinitz, chairman of the Jewish Agency, a private group of Jews from
around the world that works closely with the Israeli government to resettle

Jewish immigrants, is in New York meeting with leaders of other private Jewish
organizations to come up with a plan for raising the money.

The special campaign would come on top of regular private fund-raising

drives for Israel, to which Jews outside Israel contribute about $400,000

annually. About $300,000 of that comes from Americans.

In October, the government approved its own $2 billion, five-year

absorption plan. Part of that plan was to absorb 100,000 Soviet Jews over

three years.

After that was announced, Dinitz appealed for Jews outside Israel to

contribute an extra $500 million -- now being raised to $1 billion-- on top of
the government's $2 billion.

Since then, the estimates of emigrating Soviet Jews have risen to 250,000 in
three years to as many as 750,000 in five or six years.

About 3,600 Soviet Jews arrived in Israel in December. The Jewish Agency

expects another 5,000 Soviet Jews this month.

The Jews lining up to leave Moscow would prefer to go to the United

States, Israeli officials admit, but under tightened U.S. immigration rules

they can't. So they are settling for Israel in order to leave the Soviet

Union.

"They are not only not religious, they are hardly Zionists, and they

certainly aren't refuseniks" wanting to leave as a result of political

repression, one Israeli immigration official said.

Still, the immigrants are critical to Israel's drive to increase its

Jewish population, which is considered vital to the country's economic,

technological and cultural expansion-- even to its survival.

To accent the scope of Israel's needs, the government in October approved
construction of 3,000 apartments for immigrants. Since then, it has approved

construction or renovation of 17,000 apartments.

Even that total of 20,000 new housing units is considered only enough to

meet the need for six months.

The crisis prompted by the flood of Soviet Jewish immigrants has resulted in
criticism that the government didn't have a comprehensive plan for

absorbing them.

Michael Kleiner, chairman of the Israeli parliament's absorption

committee, has been quoted in the local press calling for Dinitz to step down,
while government Absorption Minister Yitzhak Peretz's ability to direct the

absorption effort is being questioned.

Sunday, Uri Gordon, director of the Immigration and Absorption Department of the
Jewish Agency, lamented that "no real comprehensive plan has yet been

drawn up to deal with the task at hand."

Before that, Deputy Foreign Minister Benjamin Netanyahu urged the creation of a
"National Emergency Plan" to create jobs and build housing for the new

immigrants.

Creating jobs may prove more difficult than building houses in Israel's

recessionary climate.

Other politicians believe that Israel will muddle through-- plan or no

plan-- as it has with earlier immigration crises.

In this case, the pressure to draft a comprehensive plan and to coordinate
absorption activities has become so great that Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir,
whose Likud party shares power in Israel's coalition government, reportedly

told Cabinet ministers last week that he was creating an absorption task

force.

A day later, Vice Premier and Finance Minister Shimon Peres, head of the

opposition Labor Party, was quoted as saying "There is no such thing" as an

absorption task force in Shamir's office.

A major internal problem, according to government sources who asked not to be
identified, is how to handle Absorption Minister Peretz.

Shamir went out of his way recently to praise the work of Peretz, a rabbi and a
member of the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party. Later, according to press

reports, they agreed that Peretz would report to Shamir weekly about

absorption problems.

But Peretz is considered untouchable politically, because Shamir does not want
to alienate Israel's ultra-Orthodox religious parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 19, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION GUIDELINES EASED TO AID SOVIET JEWS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Responding to a storm of protests from American Jewish groups, the Bush

administration Thursday issued new guidelines that will make it easier for

Soviet Jews and Evangelical Christians to be admitted to the United States as
refugees.

"I believe that everybody is satisfied with the guidelines now, and if

not, I'm sure that we will hear about the dissatisfaction," said Immigration

and Naturalization Commissioner Gene McNary at a news conference Thursday.

The three guidelines, reached during a meeting Wednesday with four Jewish groups
active in the plight of Soviet Jews, track three of four non-binding

provisions adopted by Congress last year.

The guidelines would ease admission this year of about 45,000 Soviet Jews who
have reached Italy and in future years would help potential refugees who still
live in the Soviet Union.

The Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, the American Jewish Committee, the

Council of Jewish Federations and the National Conference on Soviet Jewry

-- had complained that INS guidelines released last week violated the intent

of legislation sponsored by Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., and Rep. Bruce

Morrison, D-Conn.

The organizations had argued that the previous guidelines did not take

into account the historical and current persecution of Soviet Jews in

assessing whether they should be granted refugee status in the United States. "I
think now it's quite satisfactory. I think this is in accordance with

the intent and purpose of the legislation," said Arnold Liebowitz, attorney

for the New York-based Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. He said the previous 17-
page guidelines "were silent" on the issue of persecution. "We were left

with the status quo . . . which was nothing."

Congress last year adopted a limit of 50,000 on the number of refugees

who will be admitted here this year from the Soviet Union. Approximately

45,000 Soviet refugees are being processed by INS officials in Rome, one of

the first stopping points for Soviet emigrants on their way either to the

United States or Israel.

McNary, who returned this week from a trip to Moscow and Rome, said few

Jews still in the Soviet Union will be admitted to the United States as

refugees this year because of the quota.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 19, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUSPECT'S VISA HAD EXPIRED;
IRISHMAN CONVICTED OF TERRORISM IN `77

BYLINE: By CAROL MARBIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 882 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


An alleged member of the Irish Republican Army charged with buying a

Stinger missile to use against British troops entered the United States on a

visitor's visa, despite a previous conviction for aiding terrorists in

Northern Ireland.

Kevin Joseph McKinley, 33, obtained the visa even though his conviction

normally would render him ineligible for entry. He also remained in the

country for almost a year after his visa expired.

McKinley, who has lived at a Riviera Beach trailer park for the last year,
entered the United States July 29, 1988, on a B-2 visitor's visa, which

permitted him to stay only until Jan. 28, 1989, Jim Rink, assistant chief

patrol agent of the U.S. Border Patrol in Miami, said Thursday.

McKinley was arrested July 19, 1977, by the Royal Ulster Constabulary in

Northern Ireland and charged with "collection of information likely to be of

use to terrorists," said Inspector Brian Crothers at constabulary

headquarters in Belfast.

McKinley pleaded guilty to the charges and was sentenced to two years in

prison but was released after one year, Crothers said. Crothers would not

specify where McKinley was arrested, nor would he disclose details of the

charges.

EMBASSIES DECIDE

The Immigration and Nationality Act, passed by Congress in 1952,

specifically excludes aliens convicted of crimes of "moral turpitude."

The act denies entry to foreign citizens who are affiliated with

organizations that advocate the violent overthrow of any government; who write
or publish material that advocates murdering the representatives of a

government; or who are likely to engage in subversive activities after entry.
Officials at U.S. embassies decide whether to grant entry on a case-by-

case basis, Nyda Novodvorsky, a spokeswoman for the U.S. State Department's

Bureau of Consular Affairs in Washington, said Thursday.

Nevertheless, Novodvorsky said, the "probability was very strong" that

McKinley would have been denied entry if officials knew of his conviction.

Larry Rifkin, co-chairman of the Florida Bar Association's Immigration

Committee, said aliens often lie on immigration applications about a past

criminal record.

"You are supposed to admit that you have been convicted of a crime, but

you can lie, and if they don't do a thorough background check, they won't

know," Rifkin said.

Aliens seeking to emigrate to the United States are subjected to a

sometimes rigorous background check, Novodvorsky said. But a tourist or

businessman requesting a short visit-- and in possession of a round-trip

ticket-- normally would not be scrutinized.

State Department officials keep a list of excludable aliens, updated

regularly with information from the FBI, police in foreign countries, court

records and other sources, Novodvorsky said. But McKinley's name does not

appear on the list.

AT INS DISCRETION

Rifkin said embassy officials typically are most concerned with excluding aliens
who want to sneak in on a visitor's visa and then stay permanently.

"The function of consular officials is to screen out those intending to

be immigrants," Rifkin said. "If officials think they want to live and work

here permanently, then they will not issue the visa."

Once McKinley entered the United States, he became the responsibility of

the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Novodvorsky said. "At the port of
entry, they (INS) determine whether he is ineligible for any reason, and have
the opportunity to deny entry on their own criteria.

"Once they are here and overstay their visa, it's up to them (INS) to

deport."

Richard Smith, acting district director for the INS in Miami, would not

discuss the case Wednesday or Thursday. He said his supervisors in Washington do
not allow him to talk to reporters without permission, which was not

granted.

Rink, the Border Patrol agent, said agents typically do not follow up on

alien visitors to make sure they leave when they are supposed to.

"We're more on the honor system," Rink said. "We don't have people

following up on this, really, unless we come across them, run it, and hit the
person as an overstay."

IRA CONNECTIONS

Roger Colton, McKinley's attorney, would not discuss McKinley's previous

conviction Wednesday. "I prefer not to comment, because I don't have any

factual basis concerning the information," he said.

According to a criminal complaint filed Tuesday, McKinley told undercover
federal agents he was a member of the IRA, an organization that is banned in

the United Kingdom because it advocates the unification-- through violence if
necessary-- of the Republic of Ireland and Ulster.

"McKinley stated to undercover federal agents that his group was

responsible for many bombings without being caught, and specifically cited his
people's responsibility for an attempt to assassinate British Prime Minister

Margaret Thatcher at Brighton," the complaint states.

The IRA has claimed responsibility for the Oct. 12, 1984 bombing of the

Grand Hotel in Brighton, where Thatcher and most of her Cabinet were staying

for a Conservative Party meeting. The explosion injured 33 and killed five,

including one member of Parliament and the wife of another.

McKinley's B-2 visa did not allow him to be employed while visiting the

United States, officials said.

Yet Colton has said that McKinley was working at his brother's store,

Irish Leaded Glass in North Palm Beach, until his arrest last week.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 7, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS COMMISSIONER `HAS FOCUSED ON FLORIDA' FOR AGENTS, MONEY

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a move that could mean more Border Patrol agents in Florida, the

Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to boost hiring in the South and
West and strip regional offices of authority over personnel allocations.

The policy changes were announced Tuesday after a meeting between INS

Commissioner Gene McNary and Florida Reps. Tom Lewis of North Palm Beach and

Bill McCollum of Altamonte Springs, both Republicans.

"Mr. McNary admitted to us that when he got here he immediately started

looking at the situation in Florida because it was a mess," Lewis's press

secretary Ken McKinnon said. "He is committed to establishing some initiative to
address those problems in Florida. He says he has focused on Florida."

To make additional money available, McNary said he would extend the freeze on
hiring bureaucrats in the central and regional offices to the operations

level in the North and East, McKinnon said.

INS spokesman Rick Kenney said he could not confirm the expanded hiring

freeze. He said that since McNary became commissioner last October he has

attempted to centralize management functions in the central office in

Washington.

Lewis and McCollum urged the INS to allocate more Border Patrol agents to
Florida because of the influx of refugees from Central America and the

Caribbean. They noted that a recent INS decision to release Central American

refugees formerly detained in Brownsville, Texas, has led to a steady stream

of illegal aliens coming to Florida.

Previously, INS' four regional offices have determined where personnel

would be allocated, and the border between Mexico and the United States has

received the highest priority. Florida falls into the southern region

headquartered in Dallas. McNary said he plans to reduce the regional office's
authority over personnel allocations, McKinnon said.

"We didn't ask him for a specific number of agents; we asked him to

allocate more for Florida by hiring more or moving more to handle the

enforcement situation in Florida."

Lewis also urged McNary to add Florida to the list of border states which get
the bulk of INS money, manpower and equipment. Although the state is a

prime destination for people from Central America and the Caribbean, INS does
not consider it a border state because it does not share a land border with

another country. McNary did not make such a commitment.

McNary and Lewis also agreed to coordinate a pending General Accounting

Office study into alleged fiscal and manpower mismanagement in Florida with an
internal review of INS operations in Miami.

Lewis also urged McNary to improve INS congressional relations and

implement a pilot program leading to a national computer system to identify

illegal aliens in an effort to reduce the burden they place on the criminal

justice system.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 8, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

30 SOVIET JEWISH FAMILIES TO IMMIGRATE TO COUNTY

BYLINE: By GILLIAN HAGGERTY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County voted unanimously Wednesday to

help 30 Soviet Jewish families settle in the county by early March.

The group of about 80 immigrants will bring the number of Soviet Jewish

families in the county up to about 40. An estimated 1,500 Soviet Jews live in
South Florida, according to Jerome Levinrad, director of the refugee

resettlement program for the Council of Jewish Federations, in New York.

Reforms in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union have greatly increased

incidents of anti-Semitism, including threats of a pogrom-- an organized,

violent attack on Jews -- As a result, a growing number of Jews have chosen

to leave the Soviet Union.

The United States is anticipating an influx of Soviet Jews as the State

Department phases out its processing operation in Rome. About 20,000 Jews live
in government-sponsored housing, awaiting permission to resettle in the U.S.

The government began phasing out the operation in December to save money.

About 5,000 Jews are being admitted to the United States each month.

Ronni Epstein, assistant executive director of the federation, said the

resettlement would involve some "rather unusual logistics."

Typically, families that resettle have "anchor" family members living in

the area to make arrangements from this end. None of the 30 families to be

resettled by the federation has an anchor here.

The federation will make arrangements for housing, food, clothing,

furniture and language instruction.

The federation will seek county and state money to help pay the estimated $2,500
per refugee for the four-month resettlement period, after which time

the families are expected to be largely self-sufficient.

Epstein said the federation will work to settle families in groups, to

provide support and aid in transportation.

Roberta Herche, director of field services for the Hebrew Immigrant Aid

Society of New York, the organization through which the immigrants will be

routed, said matching the families to the area is especially important when

there is no anchor. Herche said the organization looks at English language

ability, family composition, skills and special health needs.

The South Palm Beach County Jewish federation, a separate organization,

has settled eight families in the Boca Raton, Delray Beach and Highland Beach
areas.

AT A GLANCE

* COST: about $2,500 per refugee for four-month resettlement period.

* NUMBERS: 1.5 million to 2 million Jews live in the Soviet Union. Last

year, 230 Soviet Jews immigrated to South Florida.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of story. Story also ran S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 9, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS TO EASE APPROVAL FOR WORK PERMITS;
NICARAGUANS APPLYING FOR ASYLUM TO GET OK

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a shift in policy, the Immigration and Naturalization Service indicated

Thursday that it plans to issue work permits to Nicaraguan refugees who apply
for asylum into the United States.

The decision followed nearly an hour meeting between INS Commissioner Gene
McNary and Florida Sens. Bob Graham, a Democrat, and Connie Mack, a

Republican, in Graham's office.

The INS move follows another decision this week by McNary to spend $11

million in an effort to stem the flood of Nicaraguan refugees into the United
States and to detain them near the U.S.-Mexican border

Graham and Mack had previously expressed concern that Nicaraguan refugees were
being released into the country before their asylum request was

processed. Many of those refugees came to South Florida were they found it

difficult to find legal employment because they lacked work permits.

As a result, many of the refugees turned to relief agencies run by local

community and religious organizations, particularly the Catholic Church.

The Nicaraguan community in Miami expects a large flood of refugees to

arrive shortly after the Feb. 25 Nicaraguan election, particularly if the

election is won by the ruling Sandinista Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 2, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ASIAN, LATINO POPULATIONS GROWING FASTEST

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Asian and Latino populations grew far faster than other U.S. groups in

the 1980s, their numbers swelled by immigration and high birth rates, the

Census Bureau said Thursday.

The nation's Asian population grew by 70 percent between 1980 and 1988,

with about two-thirds of the increase due to immigration.

The Latino population grew by 34 percent, with half of the increase

credited to immigration and half to high birth rates.

In 1988, Latinos comprised 8 percent of the U.S. population and Asians 2.7
percent. The white population grew by 6.2 percent, but 76 percent of Americans
still are non-Latino whites.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 6, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOW PAYOUTS, FARMWORKER FEARS LOWER FEDERAL FREEZE AID CLAIMS

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH AOKI, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 855 words


Even as state money dwindles for jobless farmworkers facing power shutoffs

and eviction notices because of the freeze, federal unemployment compensation
money remains relatively untouched.

Of the $30 million President Bush made available for freeze relief this year,
state officials say, less than 2 percent has been claimed.

State and community officials say several factors are keeping the number of
applicants for federal assistance low. Some workers are afraid their

immigration status will be questioned. Others are reluctant to use up their

state benefits, a prerequisite for receiving federal money. And many find the
unemployment payments too small to make a difference.

Elvira Cepeda, volunteer for the Coalition of Florida Farm Workers in

Homestead, said half the farmworkers she helps are so afraid of immigration

authorities they do not apply for state or federal unemployment compensation.
Even if they were eligible, Cepeda said, "they were scared anyway."

Any jobless Florida farmworker authorized to work in the United States

can apply for unemployment benefits, but many do not realize it, Cepeda added.
Workers without approval to work in the United States aren't eligible for

unemployment.

Michael Switzer, director of the state Division of Unemployment

Compensation, said signs placed in the state's freeze disaster centers gave

"fair warning" that all papers would be checked with the U.S. Immigration

and Naturalization Service.

"That has a deterring factor with those who don't have documentation,"

he said; about 10,000 of the 24,000 people who used state disaster assistance
centers had applied for federal unemployment compensation as of Feb. 16.

For workers who were accepted as legal aliens under the federal

government's amnesty program, accepting any kind of welfare such as HRS

housing assistance could jeopardize their standing. Receiving unemployment

compensation does not count against them, but many workers gave up at the

disaster assistance centers and went home before learning that, Switzer said.
Hazel Filoxsian of the Migrant and Immigrant Assistance Center in Fort

Pierce said many migrant workers would rather work elsewhere than wait to

collect benefits.

"They are not going to wait for $150-$200 every two weeks," Filoxsian

said.

`MOVED EVERYTHING UP'

Mike Mitchell, assistant director of Mustard Seed Ministries in Fort

Pierce, said some workers save their state unemployment benefits until summer,
when work is scarce. "What the freeze has done is moved everything up three

months," he said.

Workers also fail to exhaust their state compensation-- or even to

qualify for it-- because they lack documentation, work for contractors who

neglect to pay state unemployment taxes, or work part time doing salvage work in
local fields.

Leaders of community organizations say they are worried that the federal

program will end too soon-- July 21-- to help those who wait to use up their

state benefits. Federal money will not be dispensed after then, Switzer said.
Sister Ann Kendrick, director of the Farm Workers Association of Central
Florida, said she sees many people who have given up because the fight to

collect benefits is too hard for too little pay. One woman, eligible for only
$30 per week, did not bother to appeal when she was denied, Kendrick said. She
chose to look for work instead.

"These people are low income, and they are only going to get half" of

their regular wages, Kendrick said.

`NOT MUCH WE CAN DO'

None of the federal money for the business side of the federal aid program --
Small Business Administration and Farmers Home Administration loans-- has

been touched as applications slowly trickle in.

Linda Steding, SBA spokeswoman, said three of 99 applications given out

for SBA loans have been returned. "There's not much we can do because we

don't handle the agricultural loans," Steding said.

Officials at the Farmers Home Administration, which handles loans to

farmers, say it is too early to judge the effects of the freeze on farmers.

The FmHA has received 17 applications from the 1,092 packets given out

statewide.

"That's an extremely high number of applications to hand out in this day

and age," said Ray Naeyaert, chief of farmer programs for the FmHA. Naeyaert

estimated that in the past three years, FmHA has handed out no more than 100

disaster-related loan applications in all. About 25 percent are expected to be
returned, Naeyaert said.

FEDERAL LOAN PROGRAMS

Local Farmers Home Administration offices will handle applications in

areas that do not have disaster assistance centers. Businesses wishing to

apply for Small Business Administration loans must call the Atlanta office at
1-800-334-0309.

Loan Applications, Statewide *

Agency Distributed Returned Approved

Farmers Home Admin. 1,092 17 0

Small Business Admin. 99 3 0

Source: Farmer's Home Administration, Small Business Administration

Figures are complete through Friday.

DISASTER

UNEMPLOYMENT

COMPENSATION

Federal:

Claims: 4,268

Money disbursed: $575,362

State:

Claims 8,783

Money disbursed: $1,067,692

Total freeze-related

claims: 13,399

Source: Florida Department of Labor and Employment Security, Division of

Unemployment Compensation

*Figures are as of Feb. 24

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Information boxes at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 8, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. WAITING ON NICARAGUAN DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government is taking a "wait-and-see" attitude toward the

deportation of Nicaraguan refugees, many of whom have settled in South

Florida, Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Gene McNary said
Wednesday.

The INS has issued about 15,000 orders to Nicaraguans in South Florida

requiring them to "show cause" why they should not be deported, McNary said.

The agency stopped issuing the orders about a month before the Feb. 25

elections in Nicaragua that saw the defeat of the leftist Sandinista

government. He said no more show-cause orders would be issued until the

administration can assess the government transition in Nicaragua.

The INS does not have enough immigration judges to handle that many show- cause
orders in the near future and does not plan to beef up its efforts

there, McNary said. Instead, the INS will concentrate on stopping the entry of
new illegal aliens into the country, he said.

About 175,000 Nicaraguans have settled in South Florida in recent years,

many to escape the Sandinista rule. Those who can demonstrate the need for

political asylum are being allowed to remain, but those who came to the United
States for economic reasons are being deported.

McNary said the INS was attempting to make it easy for any Nicaraguans who
wished to return home. Nicaraguans with passports and tickets are being

allowed to leave immediately, McNary said. For those who cannot arrange

passage, he said INS will pay for their transportation.

About 100 Nicaraguans a day had been streaming into the United States.

Since early February, that number has dropped to about 15 to 20 people a day, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 2, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

120,000 RALLY AT U.N. FOR SOVIET JEWS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


An estimated 120,000 demonstrators gathered outside the United Nations

Sunday to voice support for Soviet Jewish emigration and to express rage at

reports of growing anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union.

The ralliers, who packed Dag Hammerskjold Plaza, also called for direct

flights from Moscow to Tel Aviv.

The rally came six days after Malev, the Hungarian airline, halted flights
between Budapest and Tel Aviv because of threats by the radical group Islamic
Jihad to attack airliners carrying Soviet emigres.

Three flights with Soviet Jews arrived in Jerusalem from Budapest Sunday

after the airline backed off its refusal to fly immigrants to Israel.

But Gad Ben Ari, the spokesman for the quasi-governmental Jewish Agency

that is responsible for immigrants, said the situation still was confused for
Jews wishing to come to Israel via Budapest.

Budapest became the largest single transit point early this year for the

large and controversial wave of Soviet immigration to Israel, which in the

early part of the year was running at the rate of nearly 1,500 arrivals a

week. Authorities have suppressed more recent information about the number of
new immigrants, but Israeli news reports have said about 65 percent of the

immigrants from the Soviet Union were traveling to the country through

Budapest.

Arab nations have asked the Soviet Union to slow the tide of emigrating

Soviet Jews.

Moderate Arab leaders such as Jordan's King Hussein say they do not oppose
Soviet immigration to Israel overall but are alarmed by indications that part of
the new population will be settled in the occupied West Bank and Gaza

Strip.

"To stand resolute against these terrorist threats is to defeat their

cowardly perpetrators," said President Bush in a statement read at the rally.
"Soviet Jews must be allowed free and unimpeded transit as well as direct

flights to Israel."

Several other prominent politicians and dignitaries addressed the crowd,

which police estimated at 120,000.

They included New York City Mayor David Dinkins, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R- N.Y.,
New York State Attorney General Robert Abrams, novelist Elie Wiesel,

Israel's Consul General Uriel Savir, former Mayor Edward Koch and refusenik

Natan Scharansky, who emigrated from the Soviet Union in 1986.

Messages of support were sent by Vice President Dan Quayle, New York Gov. Mario
Cuomo, Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and
Cardinal John O'Connor, head of the New York Archdiocese.

Each speaker praised the Soviet Union for allowing greater emigration but
cautioned that the battle continues.

"When you hear that there are wonderful leaders in the Soviet Union,

don't believe this," Scharansky told the ralliers. "It is you who made all

these changes possible; it's your struggle to change our future."

Under Mikhail Gorbachev's leadership, Soviet authorities have let

thousands of Jews leave the country. In 1986, only 914 were allowed to

emigrate.

Thousands of Jews are trying to leave the Soviet Union for Israel. But

there are no direct flights between the Soviet Union and Israel, so emigres

must travel via third countries, such as Hungary or Czechoslovakia.

"Jews are terrified over threats to their life and limb," said Rabbi

Haskel Lookstein, the chairman of the Greater New York Coalition for Soviet

Jewry, the rally's sponsor.

"We say to Mikhail Gorbachev, we have nothing against you or the Soviet

Union. But we demand that you crush the anti-Semitic savages in your

country," he said.

"Bigotry among some Soviets is becoming their first exercise in free

thought," said Mayor Dinkins. "But Soviet Jews haven't come so far to be

disappointed so soon."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECIPES SOUGHT FOR ELLIS ISLAND COOKBOOK

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. 1FN

LENGTH: 416 words


Are you or your parents immigrants who remember Ellis Island? You're being

sought by Tom Bernardin, who's putting together a cookbook of recipes from

those who passed through "The Golden Door."

Bernardin is a former Ellis Island tour guide who has put together slide

shows and lectures about the immigration experience.

Along with the cherished family recipes, Bernardin would like photos of

the immigrants arriving in America, if possible, and detailed stories about

the recipes from the old countries.

For more information about the book, write to: Tom Bernardin, The Ellis

Island Immigrant Cookbook, Suite 2306, 175 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10010. A
free blank family tree form will be sent to you if you enclose a self-

addressed, stamped envelope.

TOTS TAKING TO RESTAURANTS

IN INCREASING NUMBERS

It may not be long before children won't know what a home-cooked meal is. A
recent study by the National Restaurant Association shows that the number of
restaurant visits made by children under 6 increased 36 percent between 1982

and 1988.

A baby boom had something to do with that number-- there was an 8 percent
increase in the population of tots under 6 during that time.

The majority of restaurants getting the baby business-- 83 percent-- is

quick-service, or fast-food, restaurants, the study shows.

Food favorites of the mighty mites come as no surprise: Soft drinks,

french fries, hamburgers and fried chicken are preferred.

How much do they eat? The standard portion was measured as 1 tablespoon of food
for each year of age.

NEW YORK CHEF DEBRA PONZEK

FEATURED ON GREAT CHEF SERIES

From biomedicine to the kitchen is something of a jump, but Debra Ponzek

landed nicely. As the 27-year-old chef of Montrachet in Manhattan, she turns

out foods that are described as "refined and dynamic" by New York Times

critic Bryan Miller.

You can experience the Montrachet foods, and meet Ponzek as she completes her
part of the Great Chef's Series at the Jupiter Beach Hilton. A luncheon

with Ponzek Saturday featuring her foods is $35. For reservations and more

information, call 746-2511.

NEW CROPS OF TOMATOES, OTHER

VEGETABLES READY FOR PICKING

They're back! Florida tomatoes are back in the stores, and ready for

willing pickers at the you-pick farm markets.

The first crop was wiped out during last year's Christmas freeze, but

farmers replanted immediately, and the crop is now in.

Prices have decreased on other Florida produce, such as green peppers,

green beans, onions, and new potatoes; availability is steady.

--Jan Norris

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HAUTE NEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 16, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DOLE SAYS HOMELESS DESERVE LOANS PROPOSED FOR SOVIETS IN ISRAEL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said Sunday that the United States has to
take care of its own homeless before granting Israel's request for loans to
house Soviet Jews.

"Charity starts at home, and that means America," Dole, R-Kan., said at

a news conference. "We are going to give $400 million to Israel for housing

guarantees when we have 3 million homeless in America and no program for

them?," he asked.

Dole has been the Bush administration's point man in attempts to reduce

foreign aid. Israel is the largest recipient, getting about $3 billion a year.

The Jewish state is seeking the $400 million in U.S.-government guaranteed
housing loans to help absorb the onslaught of Soviet Jewish immigrants.

Israeli officials say as many as 500,000 may arrive over the next three years.
The prospect of mass immigration has angered the Arab world.

President Bush made any U.S. aid for immigration purposes conditional on

an Israeli guarantee that the money would not help settle Soviet Jews in

territory Israel occupied during the 1967 Middle East War, including east

Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Bush said in early March that the United States didn't recognize Israel's
annexation of the eastern half of Jerusalem. Israel has declared unified

Jerusalem its capital, and most Palestinians want east Jerusalem as the

capital of an independent Palestinian state.

Dole led a delegation of five senators whose visit to Israel was the last stop
on a Middle East tour to promote peace. The group returned to Washington Sunday.

Others in the delegation were James McClure, R-Idaho; Alan Simpson, R-

Wyo.; Frank Murkowski, R-Alaska; and Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio.

Dole, while rejecting more aid for Israel, suggested on NBC's Meet the

Press that financial help to Lithuania might serve as a response to any

economic blockade the Soviet Union might mount.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. WAGING HIDDEN WAR, PANEL TOLD;
' BRUTALIZATION, MURDER' ON THE MEXICO BORDER

BYLINE: By SETH KANTOR, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Members of a House human rights panel complained Wednesday that "a

virtually hidden war" is being waged along areas of the U.S.-Mexico border,

where reports of "brutalization and murder" of innocent people are rampant.

The violence is being committed by a deadly mixture of Mexican bandits,

American vigilantes, drug smugglers and U.S. Border Patrol agents, according

to witnesses appearing before the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Human
Rights and International Organizations.

One witness, Maria Jimenez of Houston, deplored "the use of deadly force

in border policing with firearms . . . and excessive force in situations of

arrest and detention."

Jimenez is director of the Immigration Law Enforcement Monitoring Project of the
American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization. For the past three
years the project has been monitoring and documenting incidents of

violence against immigrants and refugees from California to Florida.

"These incidents, resulting from the inappropriate use of firearms, only

begin to touch on a far graver situation," Jimenez said.

"The chief agent (Sylvester Reyes) of the McAllen Texas Border Patrol

Sector told us last month that he calculated there had been at least 68

shooting incidents in the last two years in that sector alone. We had reports of
only three of these last year," she said.

Another witness, Jim Dorcy, a former Justice Department investigative

agent and Border Patrol officer, strongly denied allegations that

inappropriate use of firearms by federal officers is condoned along the 2,062-
mile border.

But Rep. Esteban Torres, D-Calif., said, "I've seen ample evidence myself of an
atmosphere that has turned increasingly lethal along the border."

Dorcy said that "our agents are being outgunned by lawbreakers on the

border. They are coming into the United States with fully automatic, powerful
weapons. In some instances our agents are being armed with weapons that have

the same firepower that they have."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 21, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NAZI SUSPECTS HALTED AT U.S. AIRPORT GATES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States has turned away about a dozen suspected Nazi criminals

who took advantage of eased visa requirements to reach U.S. airports in recent
months, a government official said Friday.

Other suspected Nazis on a list of people banned from the United States

may have managed to slip into the country because of the change, which allows
West Germans to visit without a visa, said Neal Sher, who heads the Justice

Department's Nazi-hunting office.

Sher said he expects an increase in the number of interceptions as the

summer tourist season begins.

Previously, West Germans had to apply for visitor visas at a U.S.

consulate.

In October, however, West Germany joined other U.S. allies in a program

that waives visitor visas for the United States. Since then, visitors are

merely screened by Immigration and Naturalization Service officers at the

passport control booths of airports, ports and border crossings.

The INS officials check a visitor's passport against lists in their

computers and can stop a person whose name shows up. But some probably get

through if, for example, a full flight lands late at night and the passport

inspectors are flooded with work, Sher said.

Last Saturday, Sher said, he got a call from the airport at Fort

Lauderdale about a West German whose name showed up in the INS computer.

Sher said he went to his office and found the man had been a guard at a

Nazi death camp. Under questioning, which Sher directed by phone, the man

admitted he had an underarm tattoo of the elite Nazi SS unit.

"Needless to say," Sher said, "he never got to see Florida."\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOVIETS SHARE SUCCESS WITH IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By LOIS KAPLAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


In her Dixie Highway factory, Ala Brodsky supervises 10 employees, haggles

with customers over the phone and pores over her newly made lace dresses,

checking for imperfections.

Decades ago in the Soviet Union, Brodsky dreamed of running her own

clothing manufacturing business, traveling to Paris and New York for fashion

shows, and competing in the capitalist business world.

Now that her fantasy is reality, Brodsky is helping other Soviet Jews who need
work. Although only one new arrival, Nina Ostrove, is sewing in the

factory, Brodsky said she is anxious to hire her former compatriots.

"Normally, I would never hire someone like Nina, with no knowledge of the
business," said Brodsky, 34, an immigrant from Leningrad. "But Russians

work hard, they're smart and they learn fast."

Several newly arrived Soviet Jewish women have shown a knack for

fashion and cosmetology, said Bonnie Steltzer, spokeswoman for the Ruth Rales
Jewish Family Service, an arm of the South Palm Beach County Jewish

Federation.

Ella Mirmov designs bridal gowns and has been doing clothing

alterations from her home, Steltzer said. Irina Morgenshteyn was a hair

stylist for 10 years in the Soviet Union and is taking a cosmetology course at a
Delray Beach beauty school, she said.

While the new south county arrivals are being aided by the Jewish

federation based in Boca Raton, Brodsky and her husband, Lee, 37, were

sponsored by the South Broward Jewish Federation. They live in Boca Raton with
their 3-year-old daughter.

The couple said they arrived penniless in Hollywood, Fla., 12 years

ago. They put themselves through school and six years ago started their Boca

Raton-based clothing business, which sells to local boutiques and some of the
biggest department stores in the nation, including Nordstrom's and Bonwit

Teller, Brodsky said.

"I worked seven years straight with no vacation," Brodsky said.

While Brodsky attended Bauder Fashion College in Fort Lauderdale, her husband
attended the University of Miami. He worked as an engineer at IBM until last

year, when he took over the financial end of their business, Alachka Original
Designs.

Brodsky said her company mixes European and American fashion styles,

incorporating lace into each clothing piece. She designs mostly two-and three-
piece outfits, T-shirts and wedding dresses, but is planning a junior

clothing line and a cruise wear line.

The Brodskys said they left the Soviet Union because they opposed the communist
economy.

"I go for the expensive clothes and expensive cars," Brodsky said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 12, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INTEGRATING IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Soviet Jewish immigrants arriving in this country are facing problems as

well as new possibilties, according to a study by the North American Jewish

Data Bank of the City University of New York.

They've been relatively successful in overcoming hurdles of employment and
housing, but less successful at social integration into the American Jewish

society, the study found.

Examining Soviet immigrants settled in Baltimore, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Los
Angeles, New York and Boston, the study found that language and income

were among factors keeping them out of the Jewish mainstream.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  RELIGION NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 1, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARTIST VISA RULES HURT NEWCOMERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: TGIF; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Boundaries may be opening worldwide, but some in the entertainment industry say
the United States border is getting tougher to cross for anyone with a

guitar and the ability to carry a tune.

They're concerned that new visa rules will allow superstars such as Paul

McCartney to pull in millions at U.S. concerts while singers who have more

promise than paychecks are left trying to win over an audience of American

immigration officials.

"There's clear and away an aversion by some people to contemporary,

international music being brought into this country," says Bill Kitchen of

Cellar Door Productions, a major East Coast concert promoter.

The new U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service rules spell out

tougher standards for temporary workers coming into the United States. Would- be
visitors have to prove that American workers can't do the same job, and

artists have to show they've gained recognition-- and made a living-- at their
art.

French Culture Minister Jack Lang complained this month that if

impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh were working today rather than 100

years ago, he couldn't get a visa for the United States.

So far, say promoters and agents, it doesn't appear as if any fledgling

Beatles have been turned away at Customs since the new rules took effect Feb.
26.

But they say the regulations follow tighter rules over the past decade

that have led to some tours being canceled at the last minute. And they fear

American stages may be out of reach for artists who can't afford immigration

lawyers to lead the way.

The big change is in the two categories of visas the United States gives

to enter the country for temporary employment.

In the past, most artists were given H-1 visas, handed out without much

question to film directors, singers and groups. The new regulations make clear
the H-1 is for aliens of "distinguished merit and ability" and "sustained

achievement."

One-hit wonders aren't favored, while the winner of an Academy Award or

Nobel Prize, the INS suggests, should have no trouble getting a H-1.

Others are directed to the H-2, which requires an application first to the Labor
Department and then to the INS. That can take from two to six months,

which concerns entertainers who may not be able to set tour plans more than a
few weeks ahead of time.

"We're not getting into judging what they do," Rick Kenney, an INS

spokesman, said in an interview. "They would have to show that they're going

to be providing a service that's good for the United States."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 2, 1990 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

U.S. INCREASES ARMED PATROLS AT MEXICO BORDER

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: REYNOSA, MEXICO


The increase in the drug trade across the border between the United States

and Mexico has led to an increase in armed patrols by U.S. immigration agents,
in what critics charge is a move toward militarization of the border.

Border crossing points migrants once used to slip into the United States

have become favored territory for drug runners and common bandits, U.S.

officials say.

"We're facing groups of aliens who will knife you or shoot you, and we

have to prepare against that," David Trevino, a U.S. Border Patrol

supervisory agent in McAllen, Texas, said.

U.S. and Mexican officials say the threat comes chiefly from marijuana

smugglers and "coyotes," Mexicans who lead illegal immigrants across the

border crossings for jobs in the north.

Marco Antonio Ramirez, a Mexican federal drug prosecutor in Reynosa,

Mexico, said drug traffickers still were raking in profits as they slipped

through increased drug patrols on both sides of the border and were using the
money to arm their smuggling gangs more heavily.

Trevino said that in answer to the threat, the Border Patrol agents carry M-16
assault rifles and 9mm handguns.

They are up against AK-47 assault rifles and Uzi submachine guns, as well as
handguns, knives and rocks, he said.

Trevino said that already this year there have been 37 armed encounters

near the Reynoso-McAllen border, part of the trend that has led critics to

charge guns are being turned on migrant laborers who are too readily mistaken
for bandits or smugglers.

A recently released report from the American Friends Service Committee

Immigration Law Enforcement Project said six migrants were shot and killed

last year by immigration officials along the 2,000-mile border and eight

seriously wounded.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 5, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUPREME COURT TO HEAR SOUTH FLORIDA CASE ON IMMIGRANT FARMWORKERS

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a case stemming from South Florida, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed Monday to
decide whether the government must provide certain procedural protections

to immigrant farmworkers seeking temporary legal status.

The court's decision to hear arguments in the case-- probably next fall

-- represents a setback for the Migrant and Refugee Services of the Roman

Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach and the Haitian Refugee Center of Miami, which
had won two lower court rulings.

The two groups and 17 refugees denied a special agricultural worker status by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service had filed a class action suit in 1988
on behalf of an estimated 22,000 immigrant workers-- mostly Haitians

-- who were denied such status under the 1986 Immigration and Control Act.

MOST APPLICATIONS GRANTED

Under that law, aliens who had performed at least 90 days of agricultural work
during the year ending May 1, 1986, could apply for special agricultural worker
status, which could lead to permanent legal resident status. Applicants had to
submit their papers between June 1, 1987, and Nov. 30, 1988.

As of May 1989, roughly 93 percent of the special agricultural worker

applications had been granted, according to INS.

A year ago, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta upheld the 1988

decision of U.S. Judge C. Clyde Atkins of Miami who agreed with immigrants'

lawyers that INS had established an interview procedure "which violates the

applicants' Fifth Amendment right to due process by failing to provide

interpreters, failing to allow the applicants to rebut adverse evidence and

refusing to allow the applicants to present witnesses on their own behalf."

Atkins also criticized the INS attempt to require applicants to provide

pay stubs proving that they had worked and were eligible for the special

worker status. He noted that the agriculture industry historically had not

provided such documentation to its workers.

COURT ORDERS INS ACTION

The circuit court ordered INS to provide interpreters who spoke Spanish

and Haitian Creole, to provide witnesses on behalf of applicants and to meet

certain administrative requirements in conducting hearings.

Ira Kurzban, the attorney for the diocese and the Haitian Refugee Center, called
the case, "probably the most important immigration case in the last 20 years."
He said it would determine "whether federal courts can establish

guidelines over these class action suits."

Cheryl A. E. Little, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center, said it

was "unfortunate" but not surprising that the high court had agreed to

accept the case.

"INS is saying that even if we don't abide by the law, you have no way to
challenge that except in a very strict sense," Little said, noting that such

challenges could take years and involve deportation orders against immigrant

workers. "We're saying that is hogwash."

LEGAL STATUS IN JEOPARDY

She said the immigrants' suit maintains that widespread patterns of abuse can be
challenged in federal court without going through a lengthy appeals

process.

"A lot of people are going to think twice before they pound on INS' door

and say `place me in deportation proceedings,' " Little said, adding that

such workers would risk losing their legal status, be unable to work legally

and face court proceeding that could take years.

A spokesman for the diocese could not be reached for comment. In its

brief, the Migrant and Refugee Services argued that INS actions had

"discouraged otherwise eligible (special agricultural worker) applicants

from seeking counseling and/or filing their claims, and MRS is prevented from
fulfilling its basic mission of assisting aliens to qualify under" the

immigration act.

In their brief before the court, government lawyers argued that the 11th

Circuit ruling had "sanctioned the improper intervention of federal district

courts into the day-to-day business of administering the immigration laws,"

and warned that such an intrusion could cause a "substantial disruption to

INS' processing of tens of thousands of legalization applications."

U.S. RESPONSIBLE FOR FEES

The government lawyers argued that upholding the 11th Circuit ruling would be
grounds for allowing tens of thousands of aliens to challenge decisions

denying their applications.

In another case involving Haitian refugees, the high court ruled that the
government was responsible for all legal fees incurred in challenging $1.1

million worth of legal fees it was responsible for paying as the result of a

1981 case.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 5, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL SAYS IMMIGRANTS FREE AGENTS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Immigrants may settle anywhere they wish in Israeli-controlled territory,

Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said Monday, rejecting a threat by Soviet

President Mikhail Gorbachev to curb Soviet Jewish emigration.

At the same time, Shamir and other Israeli officials reiterated that the

vast majority of Soviet immigrants choose to settle in Israel proper, not the
controversial occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Gorbachev said Sunday that the Soviet Union might reconsider granting

exit visas to Jews unless it received assurances from Israel that no Jewish

immigrants would settle in the occupied territories.

Speaking to a group of Israelis Monday, Shamir said: "If the Soviet Union or
President Gorbachev does not think it can today tell its citizens where to live,
it is as clear as the sun that we, as followers of freedom and

democracy, cannot limit this category."

He went on to say that Israel would not tell its citizens where they can

live "in the land of Israel."

The Israeli government says only a handful of Jewish immigrants from the

Soviet Union have settled in the occupied territories. Western diplomats say

that if new settlements in East Jerusalem are included, the number rises to as
many as 10 percent of Soviet Jewish immigrants.

The last monthly figure for Soviet Jewish immigration, the one from May,

is 10,200. In April the figure was 10,600.

"We shall not create ghettos and areas of residence in this country,"

Shamir added.

In the West Bank settlement of Ariel, Michael Klimovitsky, a recent

arrival from Leningrad, supported Shamir's statements.

"Israel is a free country. It's not the Soviet Union, thank God. In this

country, a man has to decide for himself where he will live," the 25-year-old
computer programmer said.

Ariel officials estimate that 200 Soviet immigrants have moved to the

settlement. It is 10 miles southeast of Nablus, the West Bank's largest city

and a focal point of the Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule.

Shimon Peres, head of the center-left Labor party and Shamir's strongest

political rival, said Gorbachev's statement was a result of the government's

failure to move toward a peace settlement with the Palestinians.

In Washington, State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler doubted the Soviet
president would carry out his threat.

"Nothing that was said during the private summit discussions indicated in any
way that the Soviets won't live up to their commitments to permit Soviet

Jewish emigration," she said. "We expect that they will continue to do so.

They know how very important this is to us."

Explaining his threat to limit immigration, Gorbachev said he was under

intense pressure from Arab nations, which fear settlement of Soviet Jews on

occupied land will displace Palestinians.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 7, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3,700 SOVIET JEWS LIVING ON LAND SEIZED FROM JORDAN, SURVEY FINDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The Israeli government has portrayed the influx of Soviet Jews to the

occupied lands as minuscule, but a survey completed Wednesday estimated more

than 3,700 are living on land seized from Jordan in 1967.

Settlement of Soviet Jews in occupied territory has been criticized by

Arab governments, and Israel reported this week that only 318 Soviet

immigrants have moved into the West Bank.

But an Associated Press survey indicates that more than 3,400 Soviets have moved
to five suburbs of Arab east Jerusalem since 1989. Although Israel took Arab
east Jerusalem from Jordan in the Mideast war, Israel annexed the areas

and does not consider the suburbs occupied territory.

The survey indicated the magnitude of the immigration to the occupied West Bank
and Arab east Jerusalem is far short of the mass influx feared by Arabs.
Movement to those areas constitutes only a small percentage of the 51,700 Jews
who have arrived since the Soviet Union liberalized its exit policies in the
spring of 1989.

The issue of settling Soviet Jews on land won during that war has become

critical to the future flow of immigrants, projected to reach 20,000 a month

this year.

In response to pressure from Arab states, Soviet President Mikhail

Gorbachev last weekend threatened to limit exit permits for Soviet Jews if

Israel does not heed appeals to keep Jews from the occupied areas.

But the Soviet Union appears to have retracted that threat, a U.S.

official said. Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze told U.S. Secretary
of State James Baker that Soviet emigration policy would not be altered.

Arab leaders contend the flood of Soviet immigrants could ultimately

displace the 1.7 million Palestinians who live in east Jerusalem, the West

Bank and Gaza Strip.

They say it might undercut Palestinian efforts to form an independent

state.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 11, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS PROTEST FOR KROME DETAINEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


About 300 Haitians massed outside a federal immigration processing facility
Sunday in a peaceful protest on behalf of the detainees inside.

Inside the front gate stood about 20 Metro-Dade police officers in riot

gear and equipped with tear gas. More than 50 other officers from Metro-Dade

and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service also were on duty inside

the Krome Avenue Detention Center on the edge of the Everglades.

In April, a demonstration turned unexpectedly tense after protesters tore down
the facility's front gate. There were no arrests or injuries in that

incident, which followed reports of abuse of detainees, particularly Haitians,
at the facility.

"The same way we pull down the walls in Eastern Europe is the same way we

must pull down the walls in the Western Hemisphere," the Rev. Gerard Jean-

Juste, director of Miami's Haitian Refugee Center, said Sunday.

As a symbolic gesture, demonstrators blocked off the camp's access road

with a flatbed truck.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Dade / Broward / State

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 19, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SHAMIR MOVES TO COOL SETTLEMENTS ISSUE

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Reacting to international pressure, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir on Monday
softened his position slightly on settling Soviet immigrants in the Israeli-

occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

At the same time, Uri Gordon, an official of the Jewish Agency, which

directs immigration to Israel, said the government's failure to clarify its

policy of discouraging immigrants from settling in the territories puts the

Soviet immigration in "grave danger."

Jewish Agency Chairman Simcha Dinitz later denied that the immigration of Soviet
Jews was in jeopardy. But, Dinitz said, "We do not support any

operation which is across the Green Line," which means in the West Bank and

Gaza.

The flurry of public statements appeared to be a reaction to Soviet

President Mikhail Gorbachev's threat to consider limiting immigration unless

Israel promised to keep the immigrants out of the volatile territories.

Gorbachev is being pressed by Arab governments to restrict the

immigration, or at least to receive guarantees that Israel will keep the

immigrants from the West Bank and Gaza.

The Bush administration wants such guarantees as well, although it opposes any
immigration restrictions.

Shamir's statement was a step toward satisfying Soviet and U.S. concerns. But it
appears to fall short of what Gorbachev and Bush want.

Shamir's position has been that the immigrants, as do all Israelis, have

the right to settle anywhere within "greater Israel."

In a statement to Israel Radio in the city of Petah Tikwa near Tel Aviv,

Shamir implied there would be no new settlements at this time.

But Shamir said nothing about whether new immigrants would be kept out of the
existing settlements, which is a main point of contention.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 24, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AN EXODUS FROM FEAR TO FRUSTRATION;
IF YOU'RE GUATEMALAN, PROSPECT OF STAYING HERE IS NOT VERY GOOD

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 765 words


Guatemalans in the United States have a much slimmer chance of winning

political asylum than Nicaraguans, in spite of the bleak human rights picture in
their country.

The election of President Vinicio Cerezo in late 1985 ended years of

military rule and raised hopes of a brighter human rights picture. Such

expectations are fading as political disappearances continue. More than 50

people a month have died in political killings so far this year, according to
Guatemalan human rights groups.

Since 1985, only 200 Guatemalans have been granted asylum status. By

contrast, 13,716 Nicaraguans have obtained asylum in the past five years,

according to figures from the Washington headquarters of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

In 1989, 5,092 of the 35,431 Nicaraguan petitions were granted. Only 102

of the 15,502 Guatemalan cases were approved, INS figures show.

Human rights groups say INS policy toward Nicaraguans reflects the Reagan
administration's antagonistic relationship with the leftist Sandinista

government, which was voted out of office in February.

"When you look at those two nationalities and their treatment by

immigration here, it's just grossly unfair," said Anne Manuel, the research

director for Americas Watch, a U.S. human rights group. "In spite of a

frighteningly high incidence of political violence, few Guatemalans get

asylum."

INS Washington spokesman Duke Austin said no such bias exists.

Father Frank O'Loughlin, director of the Migration and Refugee Service

offices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach, argues that the

Guatemalan Indians were victims of selective persecution because they were

thought to be the base of rebel support.

"We had a woman who talked about how her brothers were skinned alive, her father
put to death, her brother used as a football, she and her mother were

raped. And the (U.S.) judge browbeat her."

There is a built-in difference in the way Nicaraguan applicants are

treated. Before any Nicaraguan asylum applicant can be deported, the

Department of Justice must review his case. That procedure was ordered in a

1987 memorandum by then-Attorney General Edwin Meese, Mr. Austin said.

Prior to 1980, only refugees from so-called totalitarian countries-- as

the Reagan administration later labeled Sandinista Nicaragua -- could apply

for asylum, Mr. Austin said. Victims in non-Communist countries with histories
of military dictatorship and abuses-- like Guatemala -- were not eligible.

In spite of a standing invitation by Mr. Cerezo, most Guatemalan refugees are
not returning. There are more than 40,000 Guatemalan Indians in U.N. camps in
Mexico; 80 percent of them are from Huehuetenango. Thousands more live in

Florida and California.

Many fear being accused of having worked for leftist guerrillas during

their long absence. Others have lost their land, sometimes to confiscations by
the military or civil patrols, and would have no means of supporting their

families.

Leaders of peasant patrols demand money from family members in Guatemalan
communities in the U.S., saying the men must pay for someone to serve in their
absence.

Father O'Loughlin said the practice has existed since the first Guatemalan
refugees began to trickle into South Florida in the early 1980s.

He said the payments help prevent the military from confiscating peasants' land
in their absence or arresting them on charges of leftist subversion when they
return.

Military spokesman Col. Luis Arturo Isaac Rodriguez said he has heard

reports of the practice but that people will not come forward to make formal

accusations. He admitted they might be afraid to.

"We need names, receipts and specific information," he said. "If that

is going on, it's robbery, but we need proof."

Americas Watch has followed cases of returning Guatemalan refugees being

picked up, tortured and interrogated by the army. Some have been killed, Ms.

Manuel said.

Indiantown resident Maria Elena Gaspar says she is one such case.

Ms. Gaspar told reporters she was held by Guatemalan military authorities for
six days when she took off time from her job as a Martin County school

aide to visit her hometown of San Miguel Acatan in July 1988. It was the first
time she had returned since her family fled in 1981.

She was released only after her family and church officials contacted U.S.
immigration authorities and U.S. newspapers published accounts of her

detention.

In the U.S., there are 7,245 Guatemalan asylum cases still pending, but

their hopes of attaining that status are fading. Ms. Gaspar said Guatemalans

are now trying to get visas from Canada, which also grants legal status to

Latin American refugees.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sidebar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 27, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL WILL ALLOW EMIGRES IN GAZA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said Tuesday that Israel will not block

Soviet Jewish immigrants from settling in the occupied territories.

His statement was seen as a clarification of remarks made Sunday by

Housing Minister Ariel Sharon. Sharon said the immigrants would not be settled
"beyond the Green Line"-- Israel's pre-1967 borders.

Shamir said of Sharon's statement: "Of course, he said that nobody will

be sent by us to certain territories and to certain locations. But everybody

in a democratic country has the right to settle wherever he wishes."

The United States and Soviet Union strongly oppose settling Soviet Jewish
immigrants in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, saying such settlements

are obstacles to peace.

Also Tuesday, Palestinian leaders from the occupied West Bank urged the

United Nations to play a stronger peacemaking role in the Middle East "in

view of the failure of American diplomacy."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 29, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UNINSURED NOT PAYING HOSPITAL BILLS, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: By KENNETH BOHANNON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 577 words


Nearly three-fourths of the average hospital bill in Florida goes to pay

for treating uninsured workers, not immigrants and refugees as is commonly

believed, a study by Florida International University economists shows.

D. Marshall Barry, a researcher at FIU's Center for Labor Research, said

employers who do not provide insurance are forcing average citizens to pay

more for health care in hospital bills and payroll deductions.

Bills for paying patients could be reduced by half if uninsured workers

were insured, Barry said. Neither federal nor Florida law requires employers

to carry health insurance for their workers.

Florida ranks as one of the worst states in the nation with about 23.2

percent of the population without health and hospitalization insurance. The

national average is 17.8 percent, Barry's report said.

"I've been doing research in Florida and elsewhere for the last 25 years, and
I'm always careful about what you call conventional wisdom," Barry said.

"What people perceive to be the truth is not always the truth."

Among the conventional beliefs, Barry said, is that free hospital care in South
Florida is given to immigrants, particularly Haitians.

But Barry's study showed that 62.7 percent of the state's uncompensated

care in 1989 was for treating white patients; 23.8 percent was for black

patients; and Hispanics were responsible for 10.8 percent of the unpaid

claims. Haitians accounted for 1.1 percent and native Americans accounted for
only 0.8 percent of the unpaid claims, the study said.

"What you have is a lot of irresponsible employment practices," he

said. "For example, the airport in Palm Beach County was built in a large

part by contractors who did not have health insurance for their employees."

Barry and the study's co-author, Joy Greyer, are compiling a statewide

report on the added costs that uninsured workers bring to the health-care

system.

The Florida Consumer Federation released Barry's report on Broward County
earlier this week. Barry is finishing a report on Dade County and is just

beginning to look into Palm Beach County's health-care cost problems.

Barry said he will be looking at the courthouse and jail construction

projects in Palm Beach County to determine how they might have increased the

health costs of county residents.

The Palm Beach County Health Care District will pay $27.1 million to

hospitals and doctors for unreimbursed health care for the 12 months ending

Sept. 30, said Doris Ausbrook, executive director of the district. Property

tax money is used to pay the bills of uninsured patients.

The costs not paid by taxes, about three-fourths of the total, is hidden

in hospital rates and insurance premiums, Barry said.

To protect taxpayers and paying hospital customers, public agencies should
specify in bidding contracts that employers carry health insurance for

employees, Barry said.

Palm Beach County requires contractors to have workers compensation,

commercial general liability and auto insurance for company vehicles, said

Mike Hauer, a buyer for the county. But health care is an employee benefit

that would be difficult to mandate, he said.

"A general contractor has subcontractors who has subcontractors, who has

subcontractors," Hauer said. "I don't think you could police it."

Requiring health care coverage would make the bidding process fairer,

Barry said, because employers who provide health benefits to employees must

charge more on a bid for government work than employers who don't cover their
employees.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 12, 1990 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

' GREEN CARDS': MADE IN FRANCE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The "green cards" issued to aliens living in the United States will be

made in France, a French company announced Wednesday.

Thomson-CSF, a major manufacturer of military equipment, said it had been
selected by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to produce a new

generation of resident alien permits, commonly known as green cards.

"The new system meets the demanding security and quality standards for

identity papers specified by the INS, with a view to minimizing the risk of

falsification, forgery and assumption of false identity," Thomson said.

No financial details of the deal were disclosed, and Thomson did not say

what company previously produced the cards.

It said the new cards would be produced using advanced electronic color

imaging and digital processing techniques.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 13, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FDA MAY BAR IMMIGRANTS AS BLOOD DONORS

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Food and Drug Administration, seeking an alternative to its policy of

barring blood donations by people from Haiti or sub-Saharan Africa, is

considering a recommendation that all recent U.S. immigrants be prohibited

from giving blood.

The proposal, first reported Thursday by States News Service, is among the
options that FDA officials are considering in response to charges by Haitian

and African groups that the current system is discriminatory.

Paul Parkman, director of the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and

Research, said agency officials believe prohibiting all recent immigrants from
donating blood for a period of time after their arrival might be viewed as

fairer than singling out specific groups.

"Maybe some people would think we're substituting one form of

discrimination for another," he said. "It isn't in any way our intention to

discriminate. . . . At the same time, we're concerned about the safety of the
blood supply."

The current guidelines reflect the fact that disease studies have found

high rates of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in Haiti

and in some sub-Saharan African countries. Although donated blood is tested

routinely for antibodies to the virus, blood from recently infected

individuals does not always test positive because antibodies can take months

to develop.

Parkman said criticism of the guidelines has intensified in recent months,
particularly from the Haitian community. "We didn't understand the depth of

their feeling, but we sure do now," he said.

The guidelines are used by the Red Cross and other blood-banking

organizations to screen donors. In April, an FDA advisory committee urged the
agency to develop recommendations that would not single out people from

individual countries or ethnic groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 28, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. SAYS CASTRO `TRYING TO EXPORT HIS PROBLEMS'

BYLINE: By ANDREW ALEXANDER, and LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post WashingtonBureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration Friday accused Fidel Castro of trying to "export

his internal problems" by suggesting that the United States send boats to

pick up Cubans unhappy with his regime.

"Cuba's problems can only be resolved at home through democratic process

and freedom of speech," said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher.

"Cubans who wish to leave should do so in accordance with established

immigration procedures" by applying for visas at the U.S. interests section

in Havana, he said.

Castro made his offer during a lengthy speech Thursday night marking the

37th anniversary of the abortive attack on the Moncada barracks in eastern

Cuba, the symbolic beginning of the revolution Castro led to success in 1959. He
challenged the United States to "send boats for" Cubans who "felt

persecuted" and wanted to leave.

The State Department's swift reaction Friday to Castro's comments was

apparently designed to thwart any attempts by Cuban exiles to organize a mass
boatlift.

U.S. officials are fearful of a repeat of the 1980 Mariel boatlift, in

which an estimated 125,000 Cuban asylum seekers poured into the United States.
The U.S. Coast Guard Friday said there was no evidence that a boatlift was being
organized.

The Coast Guard cannot stop American vessels from going to Cuba, but Jeff
Karonis, spokesman for the U.S. Coast Guard 7th District headquarters in

Miami, warned that the boats could be seized if they go into Cuban waters

without authorization by Havana.

If a Mariel-style boatlift is organized, he said, "we have a general plan that
can meet certain contingencies should a similar occurrence arise."

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Verne Jervis said his

agency has regularly updated contingency plans, originally drafted in response
to the 1980 Mariel boatlift, for responding to an influx of Cuban immigration.
Meanwhile, Florida lawmakers said Castro's speech represented the

"desperate rantings" of a dictator about to go under and urged restraint

among the state's Cuban-American population.

Sen. Bob Graham, a Democrat who was governor during the 1980 boatlift and who
unsuccessfully tried to get the federal government to stem the tide, said that
"under no circumstances should the United States tolerate Fidel Castro's
attempts to run our immigration policy. The United States sets our immigration
policy-- not a dictator in Havana. We will have no more playing into the hands
of Fidel Castro."

Graham said "the Cuban people shouldn't be forced to leave their

homeland. It's time for one Cuban to leave-- Fidel Castro-- so the Cuban

people can be free."

Although he saw a draft INS contingency plan in 1986 while still governor,
Graham said he had not seen a final plan. And although he and Sen. Connie

Mack, R-Fla., pushed through legislation last year earmarking $35 million for an
immigration emergency, he said Florida could not assume that the federal

government would bear the financial brunt of responding to a major increase in
Cuban immigration.

Mack said Castro's criticisms of Spain indicates "this guy has lost his

mind. I really sense that with the statement he made (Thursday) he is in deep
trouble, and he knows it."

Mack said "there is no way that we are going to see another Mariel,

regardless of what Castro's intentions might be."

The current situation is different from that in 1980, Mack said, because

then "there was no hope that Castro's Cuba was going to change. I think this

is an indication that things are deteriorating and deteriorating rapidly."

Mack, who said he thought Castro was "bluffing," said the free world

should call his bluff through an "orderly process" of immigration in which

other countries-- perhaps under U.N. auspices and including Spain, Canada and
countries in Latin America-- would absorb some Cuban immigrants on a short-

term basis until the Castro regime falls.

"Cuba is going to change," he said, "and people are going to be going

back to Cuba some day."

Rep. Dante Fascell, a Democrat from Miami who chairs the House Foreign

Affairs Committee, said, "I would hope that Castro's attempt to influence the
Cuban community in Miami would not result in an overreaction that is contrary to
United States policy and laws."

* Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau writer Stacey Phillips contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 11, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EXPIRED VISA KEEPS STINGER MISSILE SUSPECT IN JAIL

BYLINE: By JODI MAILANDER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 683 words


An Irish-born carpenter accused of conspiring to buy a Stinger missile for

the IRA remains in a Miami jail three weeks after a judge ruled he could be

released on bond, and his lawyer fears immigration officials want to keep him
there.

Sean McCann's work visa expired while he was jailed on charges that he and other
suspected Irish Republican Army members tried in January to buy the

Stinger heat-seeking missile from federal undercover agents at a warehouse

near Palm Beach International Airport.

On Friday, McCann's attorney, Jo Ann Harris, confirmed that McCann is

being detained because his immigration permit has expired.

A U.S. district judge ruled three weeks ago that McCann, 35, could be

released on bond after a West Palm Beach federal magistrate discovered that

customs agents were mistaken about his whereabouts on a night crucial to their
case. U.S. Magistrate Ann E. Vitunac called the evidence against McCann

"slim."

Family members and friends have offered more than enough money to post the
$200,000 cash bond but fear that he will be jailed as an illegal alien as soon
as they pay it.

"There are so many Catch-22s in this case," Harris said. "We are still

trying to figure out the significance of this."

Harris, a New York City lawyer who is defending McCann for free, said she
received a notice Friday that Immigration and Naturalization Service agents

served McCann in jail Aug. 2. The notice says McCann is detained for a hearing
before an immigration judge, but it does not set a date for that appearance.

INS spokesman George Waldroup said it is possible that McCann would remain at
the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Miami or be transferred to Krome

Avenue Detention Center because INS has asked that he be detained. He has been
in jail since January on charges of violating various arms export and

conspiracy laws for the purchase of weapons to be used against British forces.
McCann, a Canadian citizen, was granted a special visa in 1989 under the

Canadian Free Trade Treaty. The temporary permit to work in the United States
required McCann to report his employer to the INS within 30 days of entering

the country.

On Dec. 14, McCann crossed the border with fellow Canadian Seamus Moley,

30, in a car packed full of their belongings. Federal agents at the Alexandria
Bay, N.Y., checkpoint were waiting for them.

In the arms indictment, federal officials say Riviera Beach resident Kevin
Joseph McKinley set up the agreement to buy weapons and explosives from

undercover agents. He promised that someone called Seamus would be coming from
Canada in a week with a $20,000 down payment for the Stinger missile, the

indictment says.

Officials at the border said they discovered detailed lists of explosive

chemicals and devices in the car trunk and behind the passenger seat where

McCann had been sitting. They left the documents in the car and sent the two

on their way.

McCann's attorney says he was unaware of the papers.

Although McCann had a construction job lined up in Houston, the men headed for
Florida, where they stayed with McKinley at the Chateau trailer park. When
McCann flew from Miami to Houston Jan. 6 to turn in his working papers to the
immigration office, he discovered the office had moved. INS gave him 30 more

days to report his future employment.

He flew back to Florida Jan. 10 and was arrested two days later with the

others at the Irish Leaded Lights boutique in North Palm Beach.

His airline ticket from the Texas trip later proved handy in refuting a

U.S. Customs agent's testimony at a detention hearing that McCann had been a

lookout at a meeting between other suspects and undercover agents on Jan. 9.

The government admitted the mistake in July.

At the same detention hearing, federal officials gave Vitunac an affidavit
accusing the suspects of threatening an informant.

An assistant U.S. attorney later said that McCann neither threatened nor

heard any of the threats, Vitunac said in her report.

Based on the inaccuracies in the government's case against him, McCann

received permission to be released on bond July 23. A motion to drop the

charges against him has yet to be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran South

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 19, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN PRESSURE BUILDING FOR ANOTHER MARIEL?;
DON'T LET FLORIDA BECOME VICTIM OF FORCED IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By BOB GRAHAM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 836 words


We Floridians are experiencing deja vu.

We know that Cubans, weary of Fidel Castro's tyranny, are seeking asylum

at embassies in Havana.

We know that Castro, infuriated by these people, is lashing out at them

and the rest of the world.

Sound familiar?

Ten years ago, freedom-seeking Cuban dissidents huddled in the Peruvian

Embassy in Havana. In response, Castro opened the Port of Mariel. By doing

that, he took control of our immigration policy.

We must never let that happen again. We must maintain control of the

United States immigration system. That system must be based on U.S. interests.
The chaos of 1980 was not in our interest.

Nor would a repeat episode serve us well.

Obviously, the Cuban government is now under tremendous internal pressure. The
economy is in shambles. Shelves are empty. In one province, an austerity

plan includes rodent-breeding as a means of producing protein for human

consumption.

No wonder Cuban nationals are seeking asylum. But the Cuban people should not
have to leave their homeland to gain free speech and dignity in their

daily life.

It's time for the island to be free. It's time for one Cuban to exit. That man
is Fidel Castro.

While we wait for that inevitable day, we should continue sending accurate
information to Cuba via Radio Marti and TV Marti. The more the Cuban people

learn about changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, the more they'll

realize that Castro is out of step.

We should also encourage more economic growth in the Caribbean Basin. Cuba is
surrounded by dem-

ocratic governments. It is in our interest to help those governments succeed
economically.

Congress last week passed an improved Caribbean Basin Initiative that will do
just that. Duty-free trade under CBI will boast trade between basin

countries and the U.S. That means more jobs for Floridians as well as our

basin neighbors.

Cuba is increasingly isolated in a region where democracy is flourishing. World
changes are further underscoring Castro's role as a political dinosaur. When
Spain yanked its ambassador from Cuba last month, the action

highlighted Castro's status as a relic, unable to change with the times.

Spain's ire sends a message to the world that Castro's time is past. After all,
the world knows that longstanding cultural, family and economic ties

always have existed between Spain and Cuba.

The world knows that Spain and Cuba are trading partners.

The world knows Spain is a leading supplier of goods to Cuba and one of

its largest creditors.

The world knows that many Cubans trace their ancestry to Spain.

But Spain and Cuba are no longer walking side by side.

Spain has changed with the times. Cuba has not.

CASTRO: A HERO NO MORE

I visited Spain last month and found a changed attitude toward Castro-- a
one-time hero in the European country.

First, the obvious: The fall of communism in Eastern Europe makes Castro a
relic. Also, consider that:

* In Spain, there is increasing awareness of both human rights violations in
Cuba and Castro's unwillingness to reform.

* Spain stunned Cuba by joining other nations in supporting the United

Nations Human Rights Commission resolution for human rights in Cuba.

* Castro behaved in a harsh, impersonal manner toward Spanish Prime

Minister Felipe Gonzalez Marquez when they met at the inauguration of the new
president of Brazil.

* Earlier this summer, a Cuban diplomat in Moscow who was negotiating

economic agreements between the U.S.S.R. and Cuba defected to the Spanish

Embassy. This defection was interpreted in Spain as a sign that some Cuban

officials believe Spanish embassies are safe harbors for Cuban refugees.

WELCOME THE NEW SPAIN!

In the context of our hemisphere, Spain has a special role-- a role that

underscores the importance of Spain's diplomatic snub toward Castro.

The Spanish movement to democracy, a successful transition from

authoritarian rule, has been influential in Latin America. During my trips to
Panama and Argentina, people there held up Spain as a role model.

Latin America has watched with admiration as Spain moved from the

totalitarian Francisco Franco regime to democracy in less than five years.

The transformation in Spain, which was bloodless, was as amazing as the

demise of communism in Poland or the fall of the Berlin Wall in Germany.

Latin Americans have watched these changes in Spain with enthusiasm. They have
welcomed Spain's increasing assistance in solving the region's political and
economic problems.

In contrast to Castro's Cuba, Spain has gained a new credibility in the

hemisphere-- one based on friendship, mutual respect and shared democratic

ideals.

I believe Latin America will side with Spain in this latest disagreement,
further isolating this outdated regime.

Castro's days are numbered. But while we wait for that denouement, we must watch
him carefully. That means ensuring that he does not dictate policy to

us. That means ensuring there is no repeat of 1980.

Bob Graham is a U.S. senator from Florida and was governor of the state

during the Mariel boatlift in 1980. He wrote this article for The Palm Beach

Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 30, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USER-FEE CHANGES URGED TO REDUCE CUSTOMS LINES

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Outraged by long customs delays at terminals, airport and airline officials
Wednesday urged the government to broaden an existing $5 user fee to include

visitors from Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean.

Persuading Congress to change the law exempting foreign passengers

arriving from those areas is a key component in a five-point plan the

officials' have formulated.

Overturning the exemption would generate about $80 million to be used for hiring
more immigration inspection officers, thus curtailing long lines at the nation's
busiest air terminals.

In addition, the officials said Congress should legislate that INS

inspections should take no more than 45 minutes, as decreed by the

International Civil Aviation Organization. Other steps would include reducing
paper work and expanding pre-inspection procedures whereby some customs agents
work out of foreign airports.

"This summer, airline passengers have routinely waited more than two

hours to clear customs and immigration at 15 major international gateways

across the United States," said Robert Aaronson, president of the Air

Transport Association.

"We think it is disgraceful that it takes the government that much time

to process incoming airline passengers."

But Aaronson and other executives representing airport operators and

international carriers said they had no data to support their claims.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 9, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS TO U.S. RECALL HARDSHIPS, JOY

BYLINE: By SCOTT BENARDE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1097 words


The images are growing hazy, but memories of Ellis Island have not faded

for some of the 17 million people who immigrated to the United States through
the 27-acre mud flat and landfill in New York Harbor between 1892 and 1954.

"I remember very little," says 88-year-old Delray Beach resident Martin

Firestone, "but I remember a fully ripe Bartlett pear my father had brought

each of us. It was the first pear I'd seen in my life and how delicious it

was." Firestone was 7 when he, his mother and two sisters arrived at Ellis

Island from England on Sept. 7, 1909. They were met by Martin's father, who

had moved to New York three years earlier.

The memories that endure of the hours, days or weeks spent there are not

necessarily pleasant. Recollections are of quotas, cages, guards, crowds,

language barriers, Spartan

conditions and the gnawing fear of being sent back to the place you left.

Few complained. Ellis Island was the final gate to the promised land, the

land of milk and money.

Besides, after spending a week or two or three seasick in the cramped

steerage section of an ocean liner crossing the Atlantic, a stay on Ellis

Island was often-- but not always-- an improvement.

"I didn't feel like I was oppressed or mistreated, but it was like a

jail," says 66-year-old St. Petersburg resident Walter Loebenberg. Loebenberg
and his parents were German immigrants who spoke no English and were fleeing

the Nazis. They spent four months on the island in 1939 waiting for quotas to
clear, visas to be processed and friends to vouch that they wouldn't become

wards of the state.

Even those who had the proper papers and went through the battery of

medical, and later, literacy tests in the average three to five hours, weren't
assured of a warm welcome.

"It was scary," recalls Margo Davies of West Palm Beach who emigrated

from Luxembourg with her family in 1951 when she was 8.

"We didn't speak any English. Dad spoke a little. My uncle lived (in

West Palm Beach). He met us there and took us to a hotel. We were supposed to
come to Florida, but were told the immigration quota was filled. We had to

live in Canada for a year. We had sponsors. My mother and father had jobs

waiting (as a maid and gardener). . . .

"My father's dream was to come to the United States. He was a small man,

too small for military service. He fought in the underground during World War
II. It was the land of opportunity, the land of the free, he truly believed

that."

Robert Bewick's father, an English glass worker who was having trouble

finding work, also believed the United States was the land of rebirth. Bewick,
his mother, brother and two sisters joined him in Brooklyn, N.Y., in November of
1907.

"I was 7 years old at the time," says the 90-year-old Bewick, a retired

railroad construction engineer who recently moved from Lake Worth to

Massachusetts. "We arrived in New York on a Saturday in the morning on the

maiden voyage of the Mauretania. It was a very nice sunny day. We were ferried
to Ellis Island with a lot of others.

"The main thing I recall was this iron cage we were put in as a holding

place until my father came that afternoon and claimed us.

"We were comfortable, treated well. It was just a place to put people until they
had a way out. We were pretty healthy kids, rosy-cheeked and had no

problems going through."

Sometimes people were detained on the island by mistake.

John Harland had been an American citizen for three years when he was held on
Ellis Island for a week in 1924. He was returning from a visit to England

and his passport was not properly stamped.

"It was a mess," says the resident of Tavares, just northwest of Orlando.

"My cousin and I didn't have our American consulate stamps in our passport

to allow us back in the country.

"We had to wait our turn to see (an administrative) judge. It was just a

matter of waiting your turn. We showed him our bank books and he said, `You

have no business here.' We said, `We could have told you that.' "

Harland, 90, remembers five ships arriving at Ellis on the same day, April 1,
1924, and disgorging 5,000 or 6,000 people, only a handful of whom could

speak English.

"It was just like a prison," he recalls. "Men, women and children were

in one big dining room with long tables. They passed loaves of bread down the
table and as it was passed down you broke off a piece. You were lucky if you

got some. You had to grab for all the food you could get."

Boca Raton resident Elizabetta Marino Bassi, an emigrant from Vasto, Italy,
almost didn't stay here.

She was 15 when she arrived in New York Harbor aboard the S.S. President

Wilson in 1920. She traveled with 19 people from her village, including

Antonio Bassi, the man she would marry four years later.

They were quarantined on board for three days because of a passenger's

illness.

Once on Ellis Island, Bassi remembers: "We were scared. We couldn't

understand a word and no one understood Italian and my mother had never

traveled before. My mother prayed. I was confused.

"My first impression of America was very bad. We were going to Union

City, N.J. It was what they call Garbage Night, the night before Halloween.

They were setting wooden buggies on fire. I told my mother and father I wanted
to go home."

Home was the last place Frieda Weinberger Blau, a Hungarian Jew, wanted to
return to.

She was 23 when she arrived alone in the U.S. from a small Hungarian

village in 1936. Convinced war in Europe was imminent, her plan was to join

forces with an older sister already in the United States and earn enough

money to bring over the rest of the family and her fiance.

"I remember the big building and the long benches, but I was only

interested in seeing my sister I'd never met. My sister was there to greet me
and I was able to go through right away," says Blau, who is 77 and lives in

Century Village in West Palm Beach.

She couldn't earn enough money fast enough.

"Unfortunately in the U.S. then, pay was very poor, especially if you

didn't speak the language. I was eventually able to send for my brother,

sister and fiance, but only my sister came on the last boat in 1940 (before

shipping was closed), the Italian liner Rex.

"My brother and fiance didn't make it. They were sent first to work camps

in Hungary and later sent to Auschwitz. They survived but nine members of my

family were killed. I felt terrible losing my family. I thought it would be so
easy to make money in America. It was downright hard. But it was not even

possible in Hungary."

Still, Blau remembers the day 54 years ago she got a second chance.

"When we docked near Ellis Island and I saw the Statue of Liberty, I felt

like I had been given a new life."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(C/MUG, 2B&W & 3B/W/MUGS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 9, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISLAND OF HOPE;
ISLAND OF TEARS

BYLINE: By SCOTT BENARDE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1696 words

DATELINE: EL-12


Give me your tired, your poor,

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free

The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.

Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me,

I lift my lamp beside the golden door.

-- Emma Lazarus, 1886.

*

That poem at the base of the Statue of Liberty has been a verbal beacon for
immigrants for more than 100 years. But the statue was not built to welcome

immigrants. The statue was more an adopted symbol of hope and freedom for the
millions of immigrants who passed her in New York Harbor.

The real welcoming committee was less than a half mile away on Ellis

Island. There, 17 million immigrants were inspected and thousands of others

rejected at the federal government's immigration-processing station between

1892 and 1954.

An estimated 100 million Americans can trace their family's arrival in the

United States to that 27-acre mud flat and landfill.

While the statue has become a striking symbol of freedom and has been feted and
renovated, Ellis Island was left to deteriorate when the government closed the
station in 1954.

Open to visitors since 1976, there was little to see except crumbling

buildings.

That is about to change.

Ellis Island reopens Monday as the country's newest national park and

museum after a six-year, $160 million-dollar face lift and renovation.

Three floors of exhibits in the island's main building will examine all

aspects of U.S. immigration: why and how people came here, the inspection

procedures on the island, where they went and what they did after being

admitted. The darker side of quotas, deportations and the efforts of anti-

immigration politicians and activist groups such as the Ku Klux Klan are

also part of the exhibits.

As Gary Roth, the National Park Service's project director for the Ellis

Island Immigrant Museum says, "Ellis Island was about restrictions. The

country was growing and needed able-bodied workers. As more and more people

came through, the government began to get more selective. It's still happening
today."

The selection process began even before immigrants set foot on Ellis

Island.

Passengers traveling first and second class were presumed to have money,

jobs and good health. They were checked aboard ship and allowed to enter the

country. Only the huddled masses of immigrants who spent from one to three

weeks in the steerage section in the bowels of trans-Atlantic ocean liners

were required to pass through Ellis Island.

ISLAND AN EARTHLY LIMBO

The island, a landfill built around a 3-acre mud flat, was a teeming city

from the late 1800s to the early 1900s.

It was like an earthly limbo for many, known as "The Island of Hope/Island of
Tears." One's day of processing and testing became known as the "Day of

Judgment."

Even those who were admitted faced the ominous-sounding "Stairs of

Separation," which meant they were headed to the railroad station in New

Jersey or the ferry to New York.

More lighthearted and hopeful was the area called the "Kissing Post,"

where U.S. residents were reunited with friends and families from abroad.

There was corruption on the island, as baggage handlers and food

concessionaires overcharged the apprehensive, unsuspecting foreigners. In

1906, President Teddy Roosevelt visited the island to express his anger at the
extortion and corruption and put and end to it.

Dormitories, a kitchen and dining hall, a power station and a 15-building

medical complex, including a 275-bed hospital and a morgue, sprawled across

the U-shaped island. Between 1900 and 1954, Ellis recorded 355 births and

3,500 deaths.

An undetermined number of marriages also were performed. Women were not

allowed to leave the island unaccompanied. During the peak years of 1892 to

1924, a staff of 700 inspectors, interpreters, nurses, doctors and clerks

worked 12-hour days to determine who was fit to enter the country. Thousands

of people were processed daily, the high point coming on an April day in 1907
when 11,747 people passed through the inspection station. While some spent

weeks or months on the island, the majority were on and off in three to five

hours.

Not everyone made it through the "golden door" Emma Lazarus described.

During the peak years as many as 1,000 people a month, many from Eastern

Europe, were sent back at the expense of the steamship companies that had

transported them. The cost coming or going: $25 to $35 for the stuffed

steerage compartments of an ocean liner.

A list of physical and mental infirmities that included eye disease,

measles, tuberculosis, heart problems, mental retardation and insanity meant a
return ticket home. (The first test was a walk up the stairs from the baggage
room to the registry room to weed out the lame.)

As immigration increased, other restrictions were added. In 1917, for

example, a test proving literacy in one's native language was instituted. And a
1924 immigration law, Roth says, "turned off the faucet," drastically

reducing the number of people allowed into the country each month. The law

also favored northern Europeans over eastern and southern Europeans and

literally slammed the door on immigrants from China and Japan.

The immigration process also added to the vocabulary of bigotry. Many

Italians arrived without visas and wore the labels "W-O-P" for "Without

Papers." For some unclear reason, a circle was marked in chalk on Yiddish-

speaking immigrants. The Yiddish word for circle is keikel, which evolved

into the pejorative kike.

EXHIBITS UNCOVER PAST

Visitors, especially those whose ancestors arrived via Ellis, may get

goose bumps when they set foot on the island in front of the 100,000-square-

foot main building, the spot where ferries discharged their grandparents

and parents. That building is the only one that has been renovated and houses
all the exhibits. There are plans to turn the hospital into a conference

center.

Visitors will enter into the building's baggage room and will be able to

see:

* A 28-minute documentary, Island of Hope/Island of Tears.

* Through America's Gate, a step-by-step display of the island's

immigration process shown through photographs, artifacts and documents.

* The Peak Immigration Years, with photographs, documents, posters, maps,
graphics and taped recollections explaining how and why this mass migration

took place and what happened to these people beginning in 1880 before Ellis

Island.

* Treasures From Home, displays of personal belongings from linen

tablecloths and silverware to violins, pipes and prayer books.

* Ellis Island Chronicles, a series of models depicting the growth of the island
from 3 to 27 acres over a 300-year period.

* Silent Voices, a photo display showing the years of decline after 1924. *
Peopling of America, an overview of U.S. immigration before, during and after
Ellis Island shown through maps, charts, a 6-foot diameter globe and a

9-foot tall immigrant family tree.

Not everyone arrived in America through Ellis Island. A chart in one

exhibit illustrates that of the nearly 1 million arrivals in 1903, 5,129 came
through Key West, 267 through Miami, 15 via Jacksonville and 7 through

Fernandina, Fla.

The exhibits have been put together after exhaustive research. Everything from
furniture to the color of the paint on the walls had to be verified

through photos and documents.

Original material and memorabilia from bricks and tiles to baggage carts

and inspectors' desks have been tracked down or reconstructed for exhibition.
That includes the majestic and imposing registry room with its 60-foot

vaulted ceilings. The room has been restored to the way it looked between

1918-1924. A third-floor dormitory room with one toilet, three sinks and metal
and canvas bunks that slept as many as 60 people has been restored to look as it
did in 1908. (Each person got a blanket, a bar of soap and one paper

towel.)

GRAFFITI PRESERVED

Even original graffiti-- cartoons and notes-- have been left on walls and
pillars to serve as testimony in a multitude of languages: "We came here 18

May Saturday 1901," Guiseppe Cecchini scribbled in Italian on a third floor

column.

An oral history room containing the videotaped recollections of more than

200 immigrants is available by appointment. So, too, is a recording studio for
immigrants who have a story to tell.

In the Treasures From Home exhibit visitors can pick up phones and listen to the
Semerdjen family from Konya, Turkey, or the Zaunekers from Croatia talk of their
journeys to and arrivals in the United States.

A week before the opening many of the exhibits were far from finished. In

the rush to completion, a Jewish prayer book that arrived with its owner in

1921 had been placed in its display case upside down.

But, said the National Park Service's Roth, by Monday, "There will be a

functional, working museum open to the public."

The Immigrant Wall of Honor, which includes 200,000 names of immigrants

inscribed in half-inch high letters on copper plates, was still being

installed last week on the island's east wall. Donors paid a minimum of $100

per name with $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000 contributors getting special

preference as Leaders, Benefactors and Patrons.

Walter Loebenberg of St. Petersburg is one 4,576 Floridians who donated

money to the memorial. He is also one of a handful of Patrons.

He and his parents, German immigrants fleeing Hitler, spent four months

there in 1939. While they weren't mistreated, he remembers the island as being a
jail.

Still, he donated more than $10,000 toward the memorial.

Why?

"Simple," the 66-year-old businessman says. "I was allowed to stay. It

got me out of Germany, and I was very successful and felt I should put (our

names) up there for my parents' sake, for my sake and for my children's sake.
"When you do something well, when you're successful and make a lot of

money, you should give something back. The American dream worked for me."

IF YOU GO

Ferries leave daily from the Circle Line dock in lower Manhattan and

Liberty State Park in Jersey City, N.J. Tickets are $6 for adults, $3 for

children 3 to 12, free for children under 3.

Tickets are good for both Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty. For

more information, call the Circle Line at (212) 269-5755, Liberty State Park

at (201) 435-9499 or the National Park Service at (212) 363-3203. For

information about the Immigrant Wall of Honor, call (212) 883-1986.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(3C & 2B/W)
 Photos by RICK McKAY (1).Thousands were processed daily in the registry room,
which was restored to the way it looked between 1918-1924. (2).Ellis Island
workers install names on the Immigrant Wall of Honor. Names of 200,000
immigrants will be immortalized on the island's east wall. (3).Visitors set foot
on the island in front of the 100,000-square-foot main building.The building is
the only one that has been renovated and houses all the exhibits. (4).The
U-shaped Ellis Island, a 27-acre landfill and mud flat, included a power station
and a 15-building medical complex. (5).A dormitory room with one toilet, three
sinks and metal and canvas bunks that slept as many as 60 people has been
restored to look as it did in 1908.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 10, 1990 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HELP TO CELEBRATE REOPENING OF `ISLE OF TEARS'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The "Isle of Tears" cracked a smile Sunday as immigrants old and new

celebrated the reopening of Ellis Island, gateway to the New World for the

ancestors of two out of five Americans.

"There are thousands of different names, thousands of different stories,

but you stitch all of them together, and you have one huge saga, and it's our
saga," said Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca, who spearheaded the campaign that

raised $156 million to restore the 90-year-old immigration station.

Before snipping a white ribbon, Vice President Dan Quayle linked the

nation's immigrant history to the crisis in the Persian Gulf. There, he said,
"children of Mexicans or Kenyans stand shoulder to shoulder with the

grandchildren of Japanese or French, next to the great-grandchildren of Poles or
Dutch-- now Americans all."

Iacocca dedicated the American Immigrant Wall of Honor, which bears the

names of about 2,000 immigrants whose descendants donated $100 or more to the
renovation effort.

One of the names was that of Antonio Macchiarola, 80, of Johnston, R.I.,

who arrived at age 11.

"I had to go through these lines to be examined. Everybody was afraid they
wouldn't make it."

Macchiarola did, like 98 percent of those who landed at Ellis. But for

those who were turned back -- including a little girl who traveled with his

family and was rejected because of eye disease-- Ellis was called the Isle of
Tears.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 13, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS CUTS BACKLOG IN FLORIDA OFFICES WITH ADDED STAFF

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida's immigration offices were understaffed and overworked until late

last year, causing a massive backlog of pending requests and lengthy delays in
processing applications, according to a congressional study released

Wednesday.

That situation has been largely reversed as the result of a special task

force sent to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Miami district

office, according to the General Accounting Office study.

The GAO report was requested last year by Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm

Beach, and Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Altamonte Springs. They said the New Orleans-
based southern regional office, with eight district offices including one

in Miami serving all of Florida, had not given the Florida offices enough

money or manpower.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary, who joined Lewis and McCollum at a news

conference to release the report, said the situation has stabilized in the

Miami office and should continue to improve in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1
with the addition of 42 authorized positions for Florida.

Of those, 21 INS examiners are scheduled to join 50 examiners in the Miami
office, and another three will join the one examiner in the West Palm Beach

office. There also will be additional clerical positions in Miami and around

the state, McNary said.

"We had backlogs in Miami that were intolerable, and the situation had to be
corrected," McNary said. "While we're not totally satisfied, at the

present time with the processing, we have eliminated the backlog."

The GAO study found that during the past four years the Miami-based

Florida district was staffed at 70 percent of its authorized level compared to
78 percent in the other southern districts. None of the districts was fully

staffed because Congress did not appropriate enough money to cover the

positions.

As a result, the Miami district generally took twice as long in processing
applications for asylum, residency and citizenship as the region's other

districts, the GAO report said.

Since McNary dispatched task forces to the Miami office, the delays have

significantly decreased. Waits for processing naturalization applications were
reduced from 12 to nine months. Waits for residency applications dropped from 10
months to six months. McNary said he would like that cut to four months.

From September 1989 to March, the number of pending residency applications
decreased from 6,998 to 3,858 and the naturalization backlog dropped from

22,533 to 17,816. But the number of asylum applications increased from 29,130 to
32,149, the GAO report said. McNary attributed the increase in asylum

applications to developments last winter in Nicaragua.

Since taking office late last year, McNary has revamped the INS's system

for allocating its money and manpower by transferring that authority from the
four regional offices to the national headquarters in Washington.

Lewis said that change should result in a better allocation of resources

to districts which need assistance.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 RICK McKAY/Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm
Beach, sought help for the state's INS offices.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 14, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

W. GERMANS TO LIMIT VISAS FOR SOVIET JEWS, SET IMMIGRANT QUOTA

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: BERLIN


The West German government has moved to halt temporarily the flow of Soviet Jews
to Germany and plans to seek an admission quota for Soviet immigrants

after German unification next month, according to Bonn's Interior Ministry.

Thousands of Jews who sought for years to leave the Soviet Union have

arrived in East Berlin in the past four months, reviving a Jewish community

that had dwindled to near-extinction after oppression by successive Nazi and

Communist governments.

But with tens of thousands of additional Soviet Jews asking for visas at

East and West German consulates in several Soviet cities, the Bonn government
has told its diplomats to stop processing applications and has asked the East
German government to give a similar order to its representatives in the Soviet
Union.

The United States, which has faced a similar influx of Soviet immigrants, has
set a Soviet immigration ceiling of 80,000 during the current fiscal year, far
fewer than the number of Soviet applicants. Under the U.S. limit, about

50,000 Soviets are allowed to enter as refugees, a status carrying eligibility
for assistance usually amounting to about $7,000 each. Another 30,000 may

enter on a "parole" basis, with no government financial support.

Bonn officials said the West German consulate in Kiev has received 10,000
applications.

Annetta Kahan, director of the East Berlin office for foreigners, said

that Bonn's Interior Ministry had repeatedly told her during the past two

weeks that it had no plan to stop the flow of Jews to the two German states.

The ministry announced the new policy in response to the press.

"It's an absolute hard line," Kahan said. "One official in Bonn told

me, `We're not taking over any old burdens from East Germany-- refugees, Jews,
anything.' "

Kahan added that, under the Bonn government's current plans, thousands of other
foreigners living in East Germany must return to their native countries after
reunification. "About 70,000 people, mostly guest workers from Cuba,

Vietnam and other countries that East Germany had contracts with, will be sent
back home on charter flights," Kahan said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 2, 1990 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

SOVIET JEWS IN PALESTINE BECAUSE ISRAEL ACCEPTS THEM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 289 words


A letter writer expresses grave concern about the influx of Soviet Jews to

"Palestine"-- apparently he is unable to utter Israel's name-- and urges

that these immigrants "should be assured a freedom of choice and not be

compelled to go only to Palestine."

First, no refugee has freedom of choice to select a permanent country of

resettlement. While international covenants enshrine the right of emigration,
there simply is no comparable right of immigration, desirable a goal as it may
be.

Second, the United States will accept more than 40,000 Soviet Jewish

refugees this year, and at least as many during the next fiscal year,

suggesting that some Soviet Jews do have options. But the United States also

has placed a ceiling of 125,000 on the worldwide number of refugees it admits.
Accordingly, given the millions of bona fide refugees from Africa, Asia and

Latin America, the U.S. must seek to ensure a measure of fairness and equity

in admitting members of deserving refugee populations.

Third, no Soviet Jew is "compelled" to go to Israel. In fact, the claim

itself is outrageous. Soviet Jews are leaving the Soviet Union today because

of the growth of anti-Semitism and concern for their children's future.

Fortunately, one country is willing to accept these refugees without quotas or
lines, i.e., Israel. Would that there had been such a haven during the Nazi

era, when countless Jews died because there simply was no country willing to

accept them.

Finally, the Israeli government has stated repeatedly that no new housing for
Soviet Jews would be built in the West Bank or Gaza Strip. In any case,

these highly urbanized Jews are largely seeking to resettle in Israel's

principal cities, not in the disputed areas.

Richard H. Davimos

Boca Raton\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 23, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOCKEY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 900 words


CICCARELLI OUT FOR 6 WEEKS

Dino Ciccarelli, the Washington Capitals' leading scorer last season,

will be sidelined at least six weeks with a fractured bone in his right hand.
Monday, team doctors described the injury-- sustained in Washington's 4-0

victory over New Jersey Saturday-- as a fracture at the base of the first

metacarpal bone. Doctors will insert a pin in Ciccarelli's hand today. Doctors
also said left wing Alan May would miss at least a week because of a fractured
knuckle on his left hand, also suffered Saturday.

Norman Green, majority owner of the Minnesota North Stars, announced that he has
gained sole control of the NHL franchise after negotiating a deal with Morris
Belzberg to buy his 24.5 percent share. Although documents have not

been signed, a handshake agreement has been made, Green said. No terms of the
deal were disclosed.

Detroit Red Wings player Bob Probert filed suit against the U.S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service in an effort to get permission to

travel to Canada with the team. Probert, who pleaded guilty last year to

cocaine charges, is fighting a deportation order by an immigration judge, and if
he leaves the United States while that case is pending, he can't return.

TENNIS

REGGI ADVANCES IN SAN JUAN

Fifth-seeded Raffaela Reggi defeated Laura Harvey-Wild 7-5, 6-2 in the

opening round of the Puerto Rico Open in San Juan. Gigi Fernandez beat Beverly
Bowes 7-6 (7-3); Nicole Provis defeated Bettina Fulco of Argentina 6-2, 6-1;

and Audra Keller beat Amanda Coetzer of South Africa 6-2, 6-2. (Results, 8C)
Swedes Rikard Bergh and Magnus Gustafsson were among the winners as the

$1.1 million Stockholm Open began. Bergh beat Peter Lundgren 6-4, 7-6 and

Gustafsson beat Richard Fromberg 7-6, 6-1. Others advancing included Peter

Korda, Jakob Hlasek and Jim Courier.

BASKETBALL

NCAA TO SHARE TV WEALTH

The NCAA announced a formula for spending about $72 million of its $1

billion basketball television contract, saying the plan will reward schools

that have broad-based athletic programs and many athletic scholarships. The

formula announced Monday was for $31 million to be distributed to individual

schools based on the number of sports they sponsor above the minimum of 12 and
on the number of scholarships they award. The NCAA had earlier announced plans
to spend about $31 million of the money based on a team's appearances in the

tournament over the past six years.

BOWLING

JOHNSON LEADS IN HOUSTON

Tish Johnson held a 10-pin lead over Nikki Gianulias after the opening round of
the Lady Ebonite Classic in Houston. Johnson had a pinfall of 1,393

after six games of qualifying.

COLLEGES

FORMER HEISMAN WINNER DIES

Frank Sinkwich, the 1942 Heisman Trophy winner from Georgia, died at his home in
Athens, Ga. Sinkwich, who turned 70 Oct. 10, had been in ill health

for some time. He became the first player from the SEC to win the Heisman. A

halfback, Sinkwich led Georgia to an 11-1 record in 1942 and a 9-0 victory

over UCLA in the Rose Bowl. In his Heisman Trophy-winning senior season,

Sinkwich rushed for 795 yards and 17 touchdowns and completed 84-of-166 passes
for 1,392 yards and 10 touchdowns. Sinkwich became an Athens businessman,

owning a beer and wine distributorship.

SEC athletic directors failed to set two six-team divisions, but

Commissioner Roy Kramer said some progress was made. "I felt we narrowed our

options considerably," Kramer said after the four-hour meeting in Atlanta.

"We're down to three or four options where we were down to eight or nine

the last time we met." Kramer said the conference office would make out

football and basketball schedules based on the remaining options to give the

12 schools something concrete to base a decision on. He declined to be

specific about how the divisions would be set under the various options.

TRACK

LEWIS PREDICTS RECORD WILL FALL

Six-time Olympic gold medalist Carl Lewis said he thinks the standout 100- meter
field in next year's World Track and Field Championships at Tokyo

will result in a world record. The return of a drug-free Ben Johnson and

another spectacular season by Leroy Burrell will put Lewis' 2-year-old mark of
9.92 seconds under pressure. But Lewis said Monday he hoped he would be the

one to break the record. "I think that the world record time can be lowered

at the World Championships," Lewis said in London where he was promoting his

new book Inside Track. "I think Leroy Burrell can run inside 9.9 and I think

I can run it as well."

Joan Benoit Samuelson, the 1984 Olympic gold medalist and the American

record-holder in the women's marathon, has entered the Nov. 4 New York City

Marathon. Samuelson's presence adds to an already strong field. Nine-time

winner Grete Waitz of Norway also has entered.

ALSO . . .

HIGH SCHOOL QB MOURNED

A 17-year-old high school quarterback was remembered at his funeral, less than a
week after he was shot to death while talking with friends outside a

housing complex in Duquesne, Pa. The Rev. Christopher Ferguson urged residents
of Duquesne to see the death of Jamont Neal as a signal to strengthen their

community and to avoid similar tragedies. Neal was killed Oct. 16 as he stood
with friends outside the Burns Heights complex in the Pittsburgh suburb. Three
men are being held in connection with the shooting pending a coroner's hearing
Friday.

Motorola Inc. announced that, beginning with the 1991 season, it will

become the sponsor of what had been the 7-Eleven Cycling Team.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 MUGS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 3, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BULGARIAN HIGH-WIRE ACT HOPES FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: By CHUCK McGINNESS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Bulgaria natives Kristo and Nelle Ivanov have been performing on the circus
high-wire for more than 20 years. Now, with a little help, they hope to pull

off the biggest feat of their lives.

The couple and their two sons, Kris and Georgie, are seeking political

asylum in the United States.

Their motives can be summed up in one word: freedom.

News reports from Bulgaria say the Communist Party has purged its ranks of the
old guard and promised democratic reform. But the Ivanovs believe nothing has
changed.

"In Bulgaria, there's always someone behind you, looking at you, spying

on you," 18-year-old Kris said. "If we go back, we will be in big trouble.

They will throw us in jail."

The Ivanovs, who perform as the Kristos under the Big Top, have spent the past
year with the Clyde Beatty-Cole Bros. Circus, which is in town this

weekend for seven shows at the Royal Palm Polo Club.

Before Friday's matinee, the couple met in Fort Lauderdale with their

lawyer, Manny Singh, to discuss their status. The family has a working visa

for five years, so there's no immediate threat of being deported.

Kristo Ivanov said he met with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service in August and will meet again this month with INS officials when the

circus is in Homestead.

"They said they'd try to make the best for us," Kristo Ivanov said.

"They gave us a lot of hope."

Ivanov has been in the circus 26 years. His wife, a member of the

Bulgarian Olympic gymnastics team from 1963 to 1967, worked with him in the

Dobritch Circus Troupe before the couple married in 1970 and formed their own
act.

Because the Ivanovs were not members of the Communist Party, they could

not find circus jobs in their homeland. The couple has performed throughout

Europe and Africa and, after winning first prize at the 1980 Monte Carlo

Circus Festival, spent five years with the Ringling Brothers circus in the

United States.

Their problems worsened 10 years ago when Ivanov's youngest brother

defected. After that, the government tightened restrictions on when they could
leave the country, Ivanov said.

Kris has been part of the family act for five years, riding a motorcycle on a
cable 45 feet above the ground.

Georgie, 10, performs occasionally on his unicycle and is learning to

juggle.

The Ivanovs left their house, car and $40,000 life savings in Bulgaria,

but they have no regrets.

"Our future is here for us and for our children," Kristo Ivanov said.

"That's what is important."

The family wants to buy a home in DeLand, winter home of the Clyde Beatty
circus.

The Ivanovs' desire to become American citizens is genuine and not

motivated by money, circus marketing director Mike Kolomichuk, said.

"You can see in their eyes how excited they are just to go down the road and buy
a newspaper that's not censored or to watch the news on TV," he said. "It's
inspiring."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 CAROLINE E. COUIG/Staff Photographer ' If we go back, we will be in big
trouble. They will throw us in jail,' Kris Ivanov (left) says. He performs with
his parents and brother Georgie, 10.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 14, 1990 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BAMBI'S FIANCE TO BE DEPORTED;
CANADA ORDERS ESCAPEE'S COMPANION BACK TO U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO


The man who fled with convicted murderer Lawrencia "Bambi" Bembenek to

Canada was ordered Tuesday deported back to the United States, authorities

said.

An adjudicator for the Canadian Immigration Commission in Thunder Bay

ruled that Dominic Gugliatto had worked in Canada without authorization,

thereby he "ceased to be a visitor," said Steve Csik, a representative of

the Minister of Employment and Immigration.

Csik presented the case to Adjudicator Bob Murrant during an hourlong

hearing Tuesday at the Thunder Bay Jail.

Gugliatto will be turned over to authorities at a port of entry in

Minneapolis, but officials have yet to set a date.

Once back in the United States, Gugliatto will face charges of aiding and
abetting Bembenek's escape in Fond du Lac, which is in southeastern Wisconsin.
Bembenek, a former model, Milwaukee police officer and Playboy club

waitress, escaped from the Taycheedah Correctional Institution July 15.

Canadian police captured her with Gugliatto, her fiance, Oct. 17.

Bembenek, 32, was sentenced to life in prison for the 1981 murder of her

former husband's ex-wife.

An immigration inquiry for Bembenek will continue later this month in

Thunder Bay, Csik said.\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 15, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS WASTEFUL, INEFFECTIVE, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Plagued by a decade of "weak management systems" and "inconsistent

leadership," the Immigration and Naturalization Service has degenerated into

a group of separate programs that waste resources, duplicate efforts and fail to
solve problems, congressional auditors have concluded.

The highly critical findings by the General Accounting Office of Congress were
circulated on Capitol Hill Wednesday in a draft audit report that says

the beleaguered agency's efforts to restructure its operations have failed to
address many of its problems.

In a separate development, lawmakers were given copies of an extraordinary set
of computer memos in which INS Commissioner Gene McNary's handpicked

general counsel attacked McNary's management.

The memos were sent over three months by William Cook to Deputy Attorney

General William Barr, who was attempting to "get a handle" on problems at

INS, officials say.

As an example of overlapping enforcement efforts resulting in waste and

inefficiency, auditors said that the Border Patrol had become so involved in

conducting investigations that it had set up several stations far from the

border. The interior locations include Grand Rapids, Mich., and Roseberg, Ore.
"This not only has reduced the time devoted to the Patrol's primary

mission of controlling the nation's border, but has also increased the overlap
of the Patrol's activities with those of the (INS) investigative division,"

the report said.

The INS has not resolved critical shortages in its staff of inspectors at the
largest land border crossings, the GAO said.

With overtime hours soaring from 452,000 in fiscal 1986 to 670,000 in

1990, INS officials told the GAO that the problem had become difficult to

control because many workers were accustomed to earning an additional $10,000 to
$20,000 a year in overtime pay.

The report said McNary began to move to restructure the agency this year

by centralizing some budget and personnel functions and developing a

reorganization proposal. But the plan fails to deal with the agency's

"serious geographic and programmatic fragmentation in INS" enforcement,

the GAO found.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 6, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SYRIA RELENTS, ALLOWS 50 JEWISH WOMENTO GO

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: PARIS


In a policy shift that coincides with a softening of its hard-line image in the
Mideast, Syria has let about 50 young Jewish women immigrate to Israel.

Israeli officials confirmed Syrian President Hafez Assad's policy shift,

but they disagree with Western diplomatic sources about the entry route and

number of Syrian Jewish women who have entered Israel in recent months.

By easing exit restrictions for the Jewish women, Assad is healing a sore spot
between the rival Middle East neighbors. He also is moving to fulfill a

promise to President Carter in the late 1970s, according to a Syria specialist
in Israel's foreign ministry.

Between 400 and 500 young Jewish women remain in Syria, but there are far fewer
Jewish men of the same age.

Because the women typically refuse to wed non-Jews, the disparity makes

emigration vital if the women are to marry and raise families.

About 4,500 Jews are believed left in Syria. Roughly 3,000 of those are in the
capital of Damascus, perhaps 1,000 in the large northern city of Aleppo

and about 500 in the distant northeastern area on the Turkish border, close to
Iraq.

In mid-September, Syria allowed about 50 young, single Jewish women to

leave the country for Israel via the disputed Golan Heights border, which

separates northern Israel from Syria, according to the Western diplomatic

sources, who requested anonymity. It is unclear whether, or at what pace,

Assad will continue to permit the Jewish emigration.

SYRIA REVAMPING ITS IMAGE

Revelation of the new emigration policy comes as Syria attempts to recast its
image in the West by joining the U.S.-led alliance in the Persian Gulf.

Syria, which has several thousand troops in Saudi Arabia, is considered a vital
part of the Arab wing of the worldwide coalition arrayed against Iraq

and its invasion of Kuwait.

Syria's Assad and Iraqi President Saddam Hussein are longtime political

foes and competitors for the title of chief Arab nationalist.

Matsleah Shatah, chairman of the organization of Syrian Jews in Israel,

where about 30,000 Syrian Jews live, disagreed in part with the diplomatic

sources.

Shatah said in recent months that only about 15 young Jewish women have

left Damascus and Aleppo for the United States, where they also would be free to
marry.

NUMBER OF WOMEN UNCLEAR

Only four or five of those women left the United States to live in Israel,
Shatah said.

Of the 15 women permitted to leave Syria in recent months, a few were more than
35 years of age and some were ill, Shatah said.

During the past three years, a total of about 50 Jewish women have been

allowed to leave Syria, Shatah said, and many were ill.

Michael Kleiner, chairman of the Israeli parliament's Immigration and

Absorption Committee, indirectly confirmed that Jewish women have been

permitted to leave Syria.

ASSAD PROTECTS MINORITIES

"I know bachelor women from Syria came to Israel from America. That's all I
know," Kleiner said.

He refused to discuss the number of Syrian Jewish women who came to Israel or
when they arrived.

It is not certain that all Jews would leave Syria for good if they had

permission to travel freely.

Those knowledgeable about the situation say Jews are economically better

off than most other Syrians. They are closely watched by Syrian police, but so
are members of most other religious minorities and most Syrians.

Jews have the same legal status as other Syrians, but Syrian police can

suspend any rights they believe pose a threat to security.

There have been instances of violence against Jews in Syria, but few if

any in the past couple of years. Even Shatah, head of the organization of

Syrian Jews in Israel, said, "In Syria now, there is no problem between

Syrians and Jewish people."

One Israeli foreign ministry official said many Syrian Jews feel they are
protected by Assad, who is known to protect all minorities. They fear for

their security once he leaves power.

Shatah said the main problem for Syrian Jews is with Palestinians in

Syria, about 350,000 of whom live in Damascus. This tension is an extension of
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Shatah said Jews can leave Syria if they are extremely ill, receive a

university scholarship to study elsewhere or are leaving to marry and can

prove it.

In each case, a person must purchase a round-trip airplane ticket and

leave behind money as insurance that the person will return. If the person

does not return, usually within three months, the money is forfeited.

The younger the person, the larger the deposit, which ranges from the

equivalent of $500 to $750 -- an extremely large amount by Syrian standards.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAELIS, SOVIET JEWS CREATE CONTROVERSIAL WEST BANK GROWTH

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 47A

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: KOKHAV YAACOV, WEST BANK


The yellow line in the center of the road starts at a Palestinian town

north of Jerusalem, veers right and in quick time reaches one of the

controversial Israeli settlements in the West Bank.

On a hill at the end of the line, where an armed man in a soldier's

uniform guards the entrance, sits the village of Kokhav Yaacov. The place is

witnessing a building boom similar to those in many Israeli settlements

throughout the area.

Israel's continued settlement of the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, as well
as in Arab East Jerusalem, is an ongoing source of friction between the

Bush administration and Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's hard-line government.

Washington views the West Bank settlements, where about 100,000 Israelis

live among a million Palestinians, as obstacles to a potential peace agreement
between Israel and the Palestinians.

SOVIET JEWS ADD TO PROBLEM

Adding to the international controversy is the settlement of a small

percentage of Soviet Jewish immigrants in the West Bank. The Shamir government
says it is not directing or encouraging Soviet Jews to settle in the West

Bank. But it is not discouraging them, or Israelis, either.

One prominent settlement movement is quietly luring Soviet immigrants to

the West Bank, with the idea of using them as magnets to attract more.

The huge Soviet immigration, which this year totaled about 122,000 through Oct.
31, is indirectly contributing to the migration of Israelis into the West Bank.

As most Soviet Jews jam into the central coastal area, they are creating a
critical housing shortage. This shortage is compelling Israelis to move to the
West Bank, where they can build new homes under excellent financial terms and
with government help.

"We can see it today. What is happening is the Soviet immigrants are

staying in the cities, and old Israelis are moving to the settlements. It is

happening now," said Elan Baharal, who heads the development company that is

building in Kokhav Yaacov and several of its sister settlements.

A DOUBLING POPULATION

"We don't need Russians to come; we need Israelis," Baharal said.

Normally, the settlements grow at 15 percent to 18 percent a year,

officials said. But Baharal predicted that the population of the settlements

and larger towns in the area that include Kokhav Yaacov will double in the

next three or four years.

A similar phenomenon will occur throughout the West Bank Jewish

settlements, Baharal believes.

In Kokhav Yaacov, which is Hebrew for Jacob's Star, about 50 houses are

going up on a hill that commands the valleys below. Immediate plans call for

building an additional 50 to 60 houses.

The master plan for Kokhav Yaacov calls for the construction of 1,000

homes, according to the head of the municipality that provides public services
to all 30 Jewish settlements in that region.

A religious community launched in 1983, Kokhav Yaacov now has only about

30 trailers. About 200 people live there.

In this context, the construction is the rough equivalent of a new,

permanent community springing up overnight, and which could later grow into an
independent town.

When the first 50 houses are occupied, settlers are expected to move into the
trailers and wait for the next batch of houses.

Settlement officials are trying to cut the entire construction process

from three years to one so Kokhav Yaacov can grow faster.

Fifty new houses are expected to add at least 350 residents because the

religious families average at least five children each.

Haim Makovsky of the AMANA settlement movement, a group that helps settle Jews
mostly in the West Bank, said many settlements have been hosting Soviet

Jews during religious holidays and on weekends to "develop a relationship."

"We are not promoting this as a master plan. We are not planning to

recruit. We are happily planning to accept those Soviet Jews who want to live
with us. If they attract their friends, welcome."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 20, 1990 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES GIVEN TEMPORARY OK TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The federal government, in a landmark settlement, agreed Wednesday to give

temporary legal status to an estimated 500,000 undocumented Salvadoran and

Guatemalan immigrants and reconsider political-asylum requests from

nationalities that have been rejected since 1980.

The agreement appeared to end a massive 1985 lawsuit, known as the

American Baptist Churches case, filed by more than 80 religious and refugee

organizations. It marked the most significant legal victory by the

"sanctuary" movement, a loosely knit organization of churches and civil

rights workers formed in 1982 to protect Central American refugees.

The settlement halts all deportations or deportation hearings of

Salvadorans and Guatemalans and requires the Immigration and Naturalization

Service to give them work permits until newly filed asylum applications are

considered.

"It is the best Christmas present that I have heard of in a long time,"

said the Rev. John Fife, a minister in Tucson, Ariz., who was among eight

movement activists convicted in 1986 of helping to smuggle Central American

refugees into the United States from Mexico.

Several hundred U.S. churches declared themselves sanctuaries for such

immigrants, who said they would be killed or tortured if deported to countries
torn by insurgencies.

Attorneys estimated that as many as 150,000 refugees, whose asylum

requests have been denied or are pending, could apply again.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 24, 1990 Monday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

NEWCOMERS TEST ISRAEL'S ECONOMY;
$708 MILLION IN BONDS SOLD TO HELP COUNTRY

BYLINE: By ELISA SMITH, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The Persian Gulf crisis boosted oil prices in Israel, but according to

former Ambassador Meir Rosenne the economy was hardest hit by the influx of

Russian Jewish immigrants.

"The rate of arrival is 1,500 every 24 hours which is exactly an

immigrant per minute," said Rosenne, the international president and chief

executive officer of State of Israel Bonds.

During a press conference last week at Palm Beach's Chesterfield Hotel, he said,
"The problem now is a question of money."

The "fear" and "anti-Semitism" in the Soviet Union help explain why

Russian Jews migrate to Israel, Rosenne said, but the lack of administrative

stability, as seen in Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze's

resignation Thursday, underlies their motivation.

"There is a lack of stability in the Soviet Union and when there is lack

of stability and when there is economic crisis, the first to suffer is always
the Jews," he said.

But the emigrants' new addresses won't be in peaceful neighborhoods. Of that
condition Rosenne says, "It's not Israel's fault."

Continued instability in much of the Middle East is what makes Israel

and the United States good allies, Rosenne said.

"The strength of Israel as an ally is the fact that we are a democracy

and the changes in government in Israel are by ballot and not by bullet,

contrary to other countries in our area."

Since its founding 40 years ago, the Israel Bond Organization, which

conducts an international campaign to raise money for Israel, has been a key

source of investment capital for Israel's economic development.

And, despite the Persian Gulf crisis, investments are higher this year

than at this time last year, Rosenne said.

"We have reached as of yesterday, $708 million of investment, compared

with $680 million last year on the same date."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran LO.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 26, 1990 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JEWISH GROUPS RAP IMMIGRANT TREATMENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Some American Jewish leaders Tuesday criticized Israel's performance so far in
handling the influx of Soviet Jewish immigrants.

"We are concerned that there is no sense of urgency," Seymour Reich,

chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish

Organizations, said.

"We believe it is incumbent on Israel to address this as a top priority,

using all of its resources, all of its people, all of its government

facilities," he said.

About 172,000 Soviet Jews have settled in Israel this year, and officials expect
1 million by the end of 1992. But efforts to absorb them have run into problems.

Shoshana Cardin, the newly elected chairman of the New York-based

conference, said there appeared to be a lack of coordination among ministries
dealing with the immigrants.

Meanwhile, Israel and the Soviet Union exchanged consuls Tuesday, marking the
first time time since the 1967 Arab-Israeli war that the two nations have been
represented diplomatically in the other's capital.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 29, 1990 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL TO ASK OTHER NATIONS FOR HELP WITH SOVIET JEWS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


With record numbers of Soviet Jewish immigrants streaming in, Israel faces

enormous costs in absorbing them and will have to ask other countries and

institutions for financial help, the head of the Jewish Agency warned Friday.
Simcha Dinitz, the agency's executive chairman and a former ambassador to
Washington, said the tide of incoming Soviet Jews is the "biggest development we
have ever had" and that Israel must take "drastic steps" to handle the

record numbers.

Further, he said at a news conference, $35 billion will be needed to pay

the costs of absorbing the immigrants-- providing housing and jobs for 1

million Soviet Jews expected to join the Israeli population of about 4.5

million in the next three years.

Dinitz said Israel will have to go to other countries and institutions

such as the United States, Germany, the European Community and the World Bank
for "humanitarian" help to finance the immigration.

But that will not be enough, he warned, adding that during the next three years,
Israelis will have to tighten their belts, reducing their own living

standard by as much as 25 percent.

The United States has responded to an earlier plea from Israel, agreeing

in October to provide $400 million in loan guarantees for housing Soviet

Jewish immigrants.

This year, Israel has received the largest number of immigrants in one

year since 1949, the year after Israeli independence. The number is expected

to reach 200,000 by the end of the year.

In 1949, 239,964 Jews arrived in Jerusalem, most of them Ashkenazic Jews

from Europe, in the aftermath of the Holocaust and World War II, but many of

them Sephardic Jews from elsewhere in the Middle East.

In recent years, the tide has swung heavily toward the Soviet Union as the main
source of immigrants to Israel. With Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's easing
of emigration restrictions, what was once a trickle has turned into a

flood.

This month is proving to be the largest month in the history of Jewish

immigration-- with 35,000 Jews expected from the Soviet Union, Dinitz said.

Sometime next week, the 200,000th Jewish immigrant since Jan. 1 will

arrive, he said, pointing out that in one 24-hour period this week, 5,000 Jews
landed at Tel Aviv's Ben-Gurion International Airport via two flights hourly

from Hungary, Romania and Poland.

And there is no letup in sight: The Jewish Agency is saying that at least
400,000 immigrants are expected next year, most of them from the Soviet Union.
FAILED TO KEEP UP

The quasi-governmental Jewish Agency is in charge of organizing Jewish

immigration to Israel. The task of housing the immigrants and finding jobs for
them falls to the Immigrant Absorption Ministry, a Cabinet office. Dinitz

suggested that the Immigrant Absorption Ministry has failed to keep up with

the enormous task of housing the new arrivals.

The view of the Jewish Agency's executive chairman squares with the common
judgment in Jerusalem that housing and employing Soviet immigrants is the most
pressing domestic issue facing Israel.

Dinitz said the government's housing plan calls for building 45,000

apartments, 15,000 prefab units, 15,000 trailer homes and 33,000 mini-

trailers.

"But the execution of the plan was slow," Dinitz said, with only 27,000

apartment units being built, only prefab basics, such as water, electricity

and ground preparation, being installed and only 950 of the larger trailer

homes in hand.

The construction issue is a volatile one in Israel. Housing Minister Ariel
Sharon is engaged in a political fight with Immigrant Absorption Minister

Yitzhak Peretz and the powerful trade unions over Sharon's argument that

Israel should import trailers and even foreign construction workers to meet

the demand for new housing.

ARMY CAMPS, HOSTELS

Dinitz proposed that the government reverse the recent trend toward

privatization and take over housing construction from private industry, even

though it would not be "popular."

Until proper housing is available, he said, the immigrants will be housed in
army camps, hostels and hotels. He denied reports that some may have to be
housed in tents.

As to whether the immigration rate should be slowed to permit a proper

absorption of the newcomers, Dinitz declared, "I will never urge the

postponement of a single immigrant."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 30, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS TO CHARGE TOLLS IN `91 FOR U.S. BORDER EXPRESS LANES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to establish express lanes at
certain border crossings to Mexico and Canada-- and charge for the service.
According to INS spokesman Verne Jervis, the agency will inaugurate the

system in 1991. Express-lane locations and the amount of the fee have not been
decided, he said.

Supporters of a border-crossing toll say that the INS' proposal is a

start, but that the agency has room under legislation passed by Congress this
year to adopt a more ambitious fee program to pay for improved border

security.

"They have an opportunity for an aggressive, intelligent program," said

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration

Reform. "The results could provide for a permanent, effective financing

vehicle for sound border security, and they're ducking for cover already."

Hispanic rights activists, however, questioned the precedent of

establishing any fee, even if optional, for crossing the U.S. border. Cecilia
Munoz of the National Council of La Raza expressed discomfort about paying

border tolls and questioned whether the INS can handle another new program

given its current management and financial woes. The General Accounting

Office, in a recent draft report on the agency, was harshly critical of the

agency's administration and budget process.

Jervis said that under the express-crossing program, users who pay the fee would
be given a document or decal entitling them to quicker inspections. The fees
would be used solely to finance the program, and would come on top of the bridge
of current tolls.

Stein said a toll of $2 would increase the service's budget by 50 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 6, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOVIET FAMILY SLOWLY ADJUSTING TO NEW LIFE IN WEST PALM BEACH

BYLINE: By BELINDA BROCKMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


January 1990: The Yerenburg family was in Austria, staying in a large house with
other Soviet Jewish immigrant families. They were just one week out of

their native Latvia.

January 1991: Parents David and Dora Yerenburg and 30-year-old daughter

Faina share an apartment in Century Village. Son Igor lives and works in Boca
Raton.

They have been in the United States for seven months. While the welcome

the Yerenburgs have received in their new land has been warm, it has not been
without obstacles.

"We are very happy we're here, but it's difficult," Dora Yerenburg, 62,

said through a Yiddish interpreter.

The Yerenburgs spent six weeks in Austria after leaving the Soviet Union

Dec. 28, 1989. Another 31/2 months were spent in Italy before they were

allowed to immigrate to the United States. They had no relatives here and were
forced to wait until the Jewish Federation's national office set them up with an
"adoptive" American family. They arrived in Palm Beach County last May.

When they left the Soviet Union, the family was allowed to take only $600 in
cash out of the country. Most of it was spent in Italy, they said. They did
manage to take two fur coats and hats they hoped to sell later, but so far

they have found no buyers.

After arriving in Florida, the Yerenburgs were placed in an apartment in

Palm Springs. They had no car, and it was a lonely life. Neither parent speaks
English. Faina speaks some and learns more every day.

"This period, it was hard for us," she said. "My parents are not

young."

Faina got a job in the Century Village accounting office. Other than her

income, the family receives only David Yerenburg's Supplementary Security

Income payment of $386 a month.

For two months, Faina's colleagues at Century Village picked her up for

work and took her home in the evenings because she had no transportation. Then
the management of the retirement community found the family an apartment

there.

David and Dora Yerenburg have made new friends at Century Village and have
joined a Yiddish cultural group. Through the community's bus service, the

parents have been able to get around and go shopping. David Yerenburg, 67, a

factory foreman in the Soviet Union, would like to find a part-time job. But

so far, he has been unsuccessful.

Through the federation and Jewish Family Services, Faina Yerenburg has

learned to drive and has acquired a license. The organization is also giving

her a loan to buy a used car so she can get about more easily.

But she still has a $1,300 loan to repay. Most of the family's belongings were
shipped in a crate to the United States through New York. The crate was

not delivered immediately, and the port charged them $1,300 in storage costs,
they said. Faina Yerenburg borrowed the money to claim the crate.

By the time their possessions finally arrived in West Palm Beach, about

half had been stolen, she said.

Still, the Yerenburgs were able to celebrate Passover and Rosh Hashana

this year for the first time in their lives, David Yerenburg said. Last month,
they lit their first Hanukkah candles.

"We're very fortunate being here in America," Dora Yerenburg said. "But

it's very hard to make a living, and David is very anxious to start to work."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer Dora and David Yerenburg, with daughter Faina
between them, have settled into a Century Village apartment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 12, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STOWAWAYS FROM JAMAICA DETAINED AT PORT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 58 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Two men and two teenage boys from Jamaica were detained by the federal

Immigration and Naturalization Service on Monday at the Port of Palm Beach, a
U.S. Coast Guard official said

A pilot spotted the four stowaways on the deck of a barge as the tug T.J.
Sheridan maneuvered it through the Palm Beach Inlet toward the port about 8

p.m., the official said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 24, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EDUCATOR GETS $3 MILLION FOR ISRAELI SCHOOLS;
PALM BEACH FUND-RAISER TO TEACH SOVIET JEWS

BYLINE: By NORV ROGGEN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Yosef Tekoah's visit here was a godsend to higher education in his native

Israel.

Chancellor of Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Tekoah left last week

after collecting almost $3 million raised here to help his university absorb

and educate young Jewish immigrants arriving from the Soviet Union.

"It was quite successful," he said of his fund-raising trip. "We have

have many friends in Palm Beach County and South Florida."

More than $2 million was raised at a Feb. 18 dinner at the Ocean Grand

Hotel, attended by Zalman Shoval, Israel's U.S. ambassador, and honoring local
banker H. Loy Anderson Jr. for his commitment to Israel.

But Tekoah was in a hurry. Russian Jews were coming in a steady stream

now. There was an urgency, he said, to put that money to work to help the new
immigrants learn skills to become self-sufficient, contributing citizens in

their new country.

"We are arranging special study programs to help Soviet Union immigrants rebuild
their lives," said Tekoah, former Israeli ambassador to the United

Nations before joining the university named after his country's founder.

The immediate needs are many -- retraining courses, pre-academic studies, social
integration counseling and more housing. The university has an

enrollment of 6,500, but with the influx of Soviet Jews it is expected to

double in size in the next five years, Tekoah said.

Located in arid southern Israel, the university has aimed many programs

at learning to live, work and grow in the desert, he said.

"There's a lot of experimentation," Tekoah said. "We're growing

peaches the size of melons. And we've developed vegetables that don't have to be
refrigerated immediately and yet won't spoil. Do you realize what that will do
for some people?"

Israel, with a population of about 6 million, will absorb and cope

successfully with the influx of Soviet Jews, Tekoah said.

"It's not a question of the size of a country," he said. "It's what

you do with it."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG / TEKOAH, YOSEF)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 26, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JEB BUSH BACKS EXILES

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Jeb Bush, the president's son, is raising his profile as an informal

liaison between the White House and Miami's Cuban and Nicaraguan exile

communities, to the displeasure of some government official

Earlier this month, Bush urged his father to make calls in support of a

United Nations resolution to monitor human rights violations in Cuba, it was

reported Monday.

Before that episode, Jeb Bush had spent months working with Nicaraguan

leaders. Their goal, which was achieved, was to persuade the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service to shelve plans to deny political asylum claims and
deport Nicaraguan refugees en masse.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONFUSION REMAINS OVER IMMIGRANT-EDUCATION PACT

BYLINE: By SONJA ISGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The agreement was meant to tumble language barriers in the state's schools. But
interpreting what it requires of those who teach students not fluent in

English is taking months and stirring confusion.

And as the deadline to implement the agreement nears, some teachers fear they'll
be forced to do too much too soon.

"There's still a lot of confusion about what is required, and there's an

unrealistic time line to get it all done," said David Smith, executive

director of the Classroom Teachers Association in Palm Beach County.

The agreement bringing such rapid change was reached six months ago,

after an Oakland, Calif.-based organization threatened legal action if the

state didn't begin to provide a better education for immigrant children.

The first to feel the brunt of the changes will be an estimated 1,500

teachers who come up for recertification at the end of next school year, Smith
said.

Though the agreement applies only to teachers who instruct students with
"limited English proficiency," most of the district's more than 7,000

teachers could be affected, officials say. They will have to receive extra

training to renew their five-year certificate.

Several districtwide committees are working to interpret the agreement

and plan the best way for teachers to meet certification demands.

English and language arts teachers will need to earn 300 in-service

points or take 15 semester hours in approved university courses, according to a
letter issued by Schools Superintendent Tom Mills.

And teachers of math, science, social studies or computer literacy must

have 60 in-service points or three semester hours in English for Speakers of

Other Languages within a year of being assigned to teach an LEP student, the

letter said.

Teachers who can prove they have had enough experience to teach LEP

students won't have to get so many points, and renewing their certificates

won't require as much course work, according to the agreement.

But officials say the courses teachers already have taken toward

recertification also may apply to the requirements for teaching LEP students. If
the district gets the state's approval to count some current in-

service courses toward the LEP requirements, it may ease the burden on some

teachers.

But an official with Multicultural Education, Training and Advocacy Inc., the
organization that pushed for the new teaching standards, says allowing

established in-service courses to fill the new requirements is circumventing

the agreement's intent.

"Many districts have discussed this, and it is a big problem. In fact

it's an issue we're pursuing with the state's Department of Education,"

Camilo Perez, the group's national advocacy director, said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 17, 1991 Wednesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

LAWMAKER HELPS GULF WAR MARINE WIN CITIZENSHIP;
CUBAN-BORN RESERVIST FOUGHT RED TAPE FOR 10 YEARS

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A few weeks ago, Staff Sgt. Nilo Lorenzo was one of the Marines who helped

capture Kuwait International Airport.

On Tuesday, the Cuban-born, Delray Beach reservist won another victory in a
10-year bureaucratic battle with immigration officials to obtain his U.S.

citizenship.

A call from an aide to U.S. Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, to

Immigration and Naturalization Service district supervisors in Miami helped

end Lorenzo's struggle with red tape.

He was scheduled Tuesday for a swearing-in ceremony on May 1 at the Dade

County Auditorium.

"I feel like a lot of weight has been lifted off me," a jubilant Lorenzo,

dressed in uniform, said after leaving Miami's INS office. "I hope it works.

All I have to do is show up and be sworn in."

A Marine for nine years who also served in Central America and Beirut,

Lorenzo, 27, said he first applied for citizenship in March 1981.

He said he went through 10 years of misplaced documents, unanswered phone

calls to several INS offices and several scheduled appointments that

conflicted with his overseas duty.

Lorenzo's luck with INS improved after he met Lewis on Saturday at a

homecoming celebration in West Palm Beach for the 4th Air and Naval Gunfire

Liaison Company, the first reserve unit to enter Kuwait City in the Persian

Gulf War.

"He explained the situation and we told him we would do all we could to

help him," said Lewis' aide, Ed Chase.

Lorenzo's paper work was completed after Chase asked George Waldroup, an

assistant to INS District Director Richard Smith, to meet with Lorenzo.

Waldroup agreed.

Lorenzo said he is frustrated by being unable to work for federal, state or
local governments without U.S. citizenship.

He said he will seek a government job since his unit has been released

from active duty.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/LORENZO, NILO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 19, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

14 WEEPING CHINESE LOCK ARMS, BEG FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Fourteen Chinese men, some claiming to be Tianamen Square revolutionaries,

were in immigration custody Thursday after they locked arms at an airport and
tearfully asked for political asylum.

The young men were deported from the Bahamas on Wednesday and arrived at

Miami International Airport's transit lounge to await a flight that would take
them to London, and then back to China.

But in the lounge, they raised signs asking for political asylum, then

locked their arms and laid down on the floor, many of them weeping.

"They wouldn't move," said Jenny Nunez-Montero, Pan Am duty manager.

"They were very frightened."

No one could budge them from the passenger area, where hundreds looked on. One
of the Chinese, famished and dehydrated, fainted and was briefly

treated by paramedics.

Metro-Dade police, Pan Am employees and immigration officials couldn't

budge the terrified group. After 30 minutes, they coaxed the group, through an
interpreter, into a room away from passengers.

Bewildered and afraid, the 14 initially refused to go to the Krome Avenue
Detention Center, where illegal aliens are taken when caught entering the

country.

"They come seeking freedom," said Michael Ciu, who interpreted for

attorney Jorge Lopez. "They are very happy to be here. But they are very

scared."

The group had spent six days in the Bahamas before being deported, they

told Lopez. They had not eaten in days. It is unclear how they got to the

Bahamas.

Lopez said the men are seeking asylum because of their involvement in the bloody
Tianamen Square uprising two years ago.

"We wanted to make sure they stayed here, in this country," said William

Sanchez, Lopez's partner. "Here they have a right to apply for asylum."

Sanchez said few Chinese asylum-seekers are deported.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS....ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 22, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHURCH HELPS GUATEMALANS WITH IMMIGRATION FORMS

BYLINE: By RON KOZLOWSKI, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


About 300 Guatemalan immigrants flocked to St. Ignatius Loyola Cathedral on
Sunday, seeking advice on political asylum and help in filling out immigration
forms.

Catholic Church officials organized the meeting because undocumented

workers are often lost in the bureaucracy of immigration, said Father Frank

O'Loughlin, director of the diocese's Migration and Refugee Services.

Volunteers provided applications for permanent residence and political asylum.
"All they know is that when they go looking for work, they need papers,"

O'Loughlin said. "Beyond that, they have no concept of the thing. People

without papers are infinitely more open to exploitation."

Volunteers brought people to the meeting in vans from Dade, Broward and

Palm Beach counties. They were given snacks before filing into a hall at the

cathedral so they could ask questions about filing for political asylum.

In a 1985 lawsuit, refugee groups accused the federal government of

unfairly using political considerations to deny asylum requests. Under the

settlement, Guatemalans may stay in the United States while immigration

officials consider their cases.

O'Loughlin expected Guatemalan consulate workers from Miami to issue

passports Sunday. O'Loughlin was disappointed because most Guatemalans left

their country without passports, which can be valuable forms of

identification.

"It's a process we thought we had worked out," O'Loughlin said.

"They're the only ones who can do it. This was set up three months ago."

Jaime Escalante, 23, applied for permanent resident status Sunday. A

migrant worker since 1986, Escalante is supporting his wife and two children

on his $150 per week salary as a tomato picker.

Escalante, who has also worked in Virginia and North Carolina, should have no
problem becoming a resident if he has no criminal record, refugee advocates
said.

It was important to hold this meeting now and get the paper work started

before Guatemalans who work farm jobs move north for the summer, O'Loughlin

said. Without the help, he said most of the workers would never file the

proper documents with immigration officials.

The Church has taken the lead in helping immigrants in South Florida,

volunteers said, because Central Americans are used to going to their churches
for help, rather than the government.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 SHERMAN ZENT/Staff Photographer Attorney Juan Gomez answers questions from
immigrants Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 23, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFFICIAL: CUBAN REFUGEES DRAINING RESOURCES

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The immigration service should review its 10-year-old emergency plan for

handling an exodus from Cuba, an official said Monday as his office

investigated last weekend's alleged hijacking of a freighter from Cuba to Key
West by 11 asylum-seeking stowaways.

Richard Smith, district director of the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service, said there is no emergency now, but a record number of
Cuban rafters and boaters have crossed to freedom this year, and the refugees
are draining immigration resources.

"We are seeing more and more Cubans attempt the crossing as the economic

situation over there continues to deteriorate," Smith said. "They are

straining my resources a little thinner than I would like."

Smith said he will organize a meeting of federal and local government

officials to re-evaluate a contingency plan that was drafted after the Mariel
boatlift brought 125,000 Cuban refugees to South Florida in 1980. Already this
year, the Coast Guard has picked up 348 Cubans. Last year, 497 journeyed to

South Florida.

As a result, the immigration detention facility in western Dade County,

which has space for 450 people, is housing 576 refugees, Smith said.

Immigration officials Monday began sorting out the details of a weekend

incident in which a 100-foot Cuban sand-dredging ship, the Patricio Lumumba,

was allegedly commandeered by 11 Cubans-- nine men, a 33-year-old woman and

her 15-year-old son-- as it was docked in Mariel, just west of Havana. No one
was injured and no weapons were used, Smith said.

The group of 11 and two of the ship's six crew members who may have

conspired with the stowaways are asking for political asylum. The four other

crew members, including the ship's captain who was tied up in the alleged

hijacking, want to return to Cuba, officials said.

The vessel was escorted to the U.S. Coast Guard station in Key West Sunday after
hailing a private boat offshore and asking for directions, Coast Guard

officials said. All 17 Cubans on board were being interviewed by INS personnel
Monday at the Krome Detention Center.

Smith said he has contacted the State Department to deal with the vessel and
those who wished to return to Cuba.

Federal authorities must determine whether the United States has the

authority to prosecute the Cubans for the alleged hijacking, said FBI

spokesman Paul Miller.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS...ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 28, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL'S ESTIMATE OF SOVIET JEWS SHRINKS 100,000

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israel's chief immigration agency has sharply lowered its estimates of new

Soviet arrivals this year and blames the expected shortfall on insufficient

job opportunities and botched planning by the government.

More than 300,000 Jewish immigrants had been expected in 1991, but the

Jewish Agency, the quasi-governmental body that arranges travel for the

newcomers, scaled down the estimate to about 200,000.

The decrease is a major embarrassment to the government of Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir; absorption of immigrants is the basic rationale behind

establishment of the state of Israel, and successful reception of Jews from

abroad is considered a prime duty of any Israeli government.

Shamir put pressure on the Bush administration to limit the number of

Soviet Jews who could emigrate to the United States to ensure that the bulk of
them would come to Israel. Until late 1989, most Soviet Jews preferred America
as a destination, but the United States adopted a quota of 50,000 Soviet

Jewish immigrants a year just as the wave grew to epic size.

Soviet Jewry is driven to emigrate by signs of growing anti-Semitism,

nationalist unrest and economic hardship in the Soviet Union.

Israel greeted the huge migration with welcoming rhetoric and business-as- usual
inefficiency.

During the past few months, newcomers' difficulties in finding jobs have

led to discontent, and word of the hardship is reaching the Soviet Union.

"There's no doubt letters are going home and describe the situation as

unfavorable," said Yehuda Weinraub, a spokesman for the Jewish Agency.

Weinraub blasted the Shamir government. "This is an emergency situation.

The government must step in energetically and take the problem in hand."

Criticism reached a crescendo early last week when the Bank of Israel

released a report predicting mass unemployment unless the government takes

steps to rapidly reform Israel's economy.

A government plan to pay the salaries of 50,000 workers if private

industry finds a place for them was ridiculed out of existence by both

opposition politicians and members of Shamir's own Likud Party.

Likud member Ariel Weinstein said the make-work plan would resemble

Soviet-style economic planning and condition the newcomers to expect handouts.
"Let us not permit the immigrants, who were used to going to work and not

working, do the same thing here in Israel," he told the pro-government

Jerusalem Post.

The Bank of Israel also said housing construction would fail to match

needs by 90,000 units by the end of this year. Bank head Michael Bruno said

Israelis must gear up for higher taxes and a lower standard of living to pay

for the mass influx.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 28, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BOCA JEWS ASKED TO HELP ISRAEL

BYLINE: By JOE NEWMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


The war in the Persian Gulf may be over but Israel is still facing a crisis that
is taxing the country's resources, the director of the American Jewish

Committee said Saturday.

The influx of Soviet Jews into Israel is straining the economy and

creating crowded housing conditions, Ron Kronish told the congregation of

B'nai Torah.

Kronish, who grew up in Miami and is now headquartered in Israel, is

visiting the United States on a seven-city speaking tour. His appearance in

Boca Raton was his first stop. American Jews must do more to help Israel

absorb the 200,000 Jews a year who are immigrating from the Soviet Union,

Kronish said.

"This is an emergency situation similar to a war," he said.

While American Jews have contributed more than $400 million to help pay

the transportation costs for the immigrating Soviets, Kronish said "it is not
enough to just get them to Israel."

Not only should American Jews contribute money to help shelter the

immigrants, those with construction expertise should help build housing,

Kronish said.

B'nai Torah member Bill Gralnick, also the Southeast Regional director of the
American Jewish Committee, said that throughout their history Jews have

had to meet challenges.

"It's difficult to keep rising to the emergency situation," Gralnick

said. "But the Israeli response has been so positive, we've been swept along

with it."

In return for Israel's cooperation in the Middle East peace process, the U.S.
government has a responsibility to help settle the Soviet Jews, Kronish

said. Israel has already made a great sacrifice in not retaliating against

Iraqi Scud-missile attacks, he said.

"Will our enemies understand Israel's constraint or misunderstand it as

weakness?" Kronish asked. "In the region we live in, if you're not tough,

the other side thinks you're weak."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 4, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SURVIVORS SAY GROUP WAS GOING FISHING, NOT FLEEING FROM CUBA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration authorities were investigating Friday whether two Cubans

rescued this week after a harrowing sea voyage from Cuba planned to seek

sanctuary in the United States or only intended to go fishing.

Margarita Martinez, 24, and Rafael Garcia, 16, were pulled Thursday from

the Atlantic Ocean near Palm Beach County after apparently drifting for two

weeks with no supplies.

They told police that five fellow passengers disappeared or died during

the voyage, said Palm Beach County sheriff's spokesman Bob Ferrell.

Both survivors were treated for exposure and dehydration at a JFK Medical Center
in Atlantis and transferred to Krome Avenue Detention Center.

Immigration officials interviewed them Friday.

Martinez said that she, her husband and five friends set out on the 12-

foot boat for a one-day pleasure trip and didn't intend to leave Cuba.

"It was a fishing trip, and there were complications," she said

Thursday. "We just left to fish and have a few drinks. For this reason, we

did not have food. It was a tragedy. We had no food or water."

However, she had told deputies earlier in the day that the group

deliberately drifted away from Cuba, tried to start the engine when they were
out of earshot of the island and threw it overboard when it wouldn't work.

During the crossing, one person disappeared, three people died and one

committed suicide, the survivors said. The group left Havana harbor April 16.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 4, 1991 Saturday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

AMBASSADOR FAULTS ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The U.S. ambassador to Israel on Friday leveled unusually blunt criticism

at the Israeli government for its settlement and immigrant absorption

policies.

William Brown's comments came amid growing tension between Israel and the United
States on those issues.

On Wednesday, the Bush administration snubbed Israel's housing minister,

Ariel Sharon, for pursuing an aggressive settlement policy despite U.S.

objections. Israel protested the action Thursday.

"It is now becoming increasingly clear, from public statements in Israel

as well as other sources, that tremendous priority has been given to providing
housing in the (occupied) territories," Brown said in a speech to the

Commercial and Industrial Club in Tel Aviv.

Brown noted that mobile homes have been installed overnight in the

occupied territories, while it can take months for such housing to be set up

in Israel proper.

He referred to the small enclaves of Jewish settlers living in mobile

homes that have quietly sprung up in the West Bank in recent weeks, including
one opened on the eve of Secretary of State James Baker visit to Israel last

week.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL and Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 10, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IRAQ ENVOY'S IMMIGRATION STUNS OTTAWA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


An embarrassed Canadian government questioned immigration and external

affairs employees Thursday to try to determine how the former Iraqi ambassador
to the United States wound up as a Canadian immigrant.

Mohammed Al-Mashat, 60, frequently seen on U.S television defending Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait in the days before the outbreak of war, was awarded

permanent residency in Canada March 27 as a financially independent retiree.

"A priority review is under way," said Gerry Maffre of Employment and

Immigration Canada. "The minister has asked why (senior officials) were not

apprised while a high-profile case was being handled."

The immigration procedure was carried out in a legal manner, but without

the knowledge of senior officials, Maffre said.

As a landed immigrant, Mashat is eligible for Canadian citizenship after

three years.

The ministry said it could not reveal Mashat's whereabouts under the

Canadian privacy act. In any case, the former ambassador was not required to

remain in contact with government officials.

"I find it incredible, unacceptable, that this could happen,"

Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt said Wednesday, acknowledging he had

only learned of the case the day before.

Valcourt said Mashat was fast-tracked because he had expressed concerns

for his safety and that immigration officials knew who he was. Why they did

not inform their superiors was unclear.

"I cannot blame officials for having granted an interview to someone who

could have been a high-ranking defector," Valcourt said. "He is here. It is

not important whether I am in agreement or not."

U.S. State Department officials said they played no role in helping the

former ambassador gain admission to Canada.

Mashat was recalled to Baghdad in mid-January, just before the outbreak of the
Persian Gulf War. He went instead to Austria, saying his wife needed

medical treatment. Late in February, Mashat applied at the Canadian Embassy in
Vienna to immigrate to Canada.

As a diplomat, he was granted a rapid interview and immediately jumped

ahead of more than 100,000 foreigners seeking refugee status in Canada.

Maffre said Valcourt will not say whether he would have prevented Mashat

from entering the country, "but he wouldn't have expedited it."

The ambassador's entry into Canada was criticized by opponents of Prime

Minister Brian Mulroney's conservative government.

"This makes us look like a dumping ground for one of the chief apologists of
Saddam Hussein," said Svend Robinson, foreign affairs specialist for the

liberal New Democratic Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/MASHAT, MOHAMMED AL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 11, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WEST PALM MAN FINDS NEW BRANCH ON FAMILY TREE;
NAMES APPEAR ON ELLIS ISLAND MEMORIAL

BYLINE: By KAREN INFELD, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Al Sakson paid $200 to have his parents' names listed on the American

Immigrant Wall of Honor at Ellis Island. When he visited the wall last year,

he found two Saksons listed, but they weren't his parents.

A cousin told Sakson the two were his father's sisters-- aunts he didn't

know had immigrated.

"I never had any inkling they existed," the West Palm Beach resident

said. "I have a very small family . . . or I thought I did."

The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation is trying to reunite the

lost relatives by writing to the people who sent in Sakson's aunts' names.

Between 1892 and 1954, about 12 million immigrants were processed at Ellis
Island. After standing abandoned and in disrepair for decades, it underwent a
six-year, $160 million restoration and was opened as a historic site Sept. 10,
1990.

The foundation wanted to do something to honor America's immigrants,

president Stephen Briganti said. For a $100 donation, the foundation inscribed
the name of an immigrant ancestor on copper plates lining a 1,000-foot wall.

About 200,000 names from 170 countries were listed.

Sakson said he wanted to put his parents' names on the wall to honor them for
their courage in making the trip. His father came from Lithuania in 1913. He
ripped buttons off his coat to help pay for his boat fare.

His mother was the first of a family of nine to travel from the Soviet

Union.

Because of continued interest, the foundation plans to build a second wall by
September 1992, the centennial anniversary of Ellis Island's opening.

As of last week, Florida residents sent in the seventh-largest number of

names among the states for the new wall-- 4,400.

For more information, write Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation,

P.O. Box Ellis, New York, N.Y. 10163 or call (212) 883-1986.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 15, 1991 Wednesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS NOT SEGREGATED, BOCA HIGH SAYS

BYLINE: By ELISA NEWSOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Boca Raton High School Principal Norman Shearin rejected a complaint

Tuesday that his school has isolated immigrants from the rest of the student

body.

The charge, filed May 10 with the state education commissioner, claims

Boca High has violated the rights of students who don't speak English by

housing them in portables that are separated from the campus.

Shearin, who wasn't aware of the complaint until Tuesday, took offense to the
claim made by the Florida Rural Legal Services Inc.

"We've made every effort in the world just to do the opposite," he

said.

Boca High, the only high school in southern Palm Beach County with an

English for Speakers of Other Languages program, has 170 ESOL students, the

majority of them Haitian. Under the program, students take two ESOL classes

and five regular classes.

But about 80 of those students are not academically able to function in

regular classrooms because they have had no formal education, even in their

own language, Shearin said. All of their classes, including physical

education, fall under the ESOL program. They are housed in five portables that
sit on the extreme southwest end of the campus.

"We have to be realistic. We can't put a kid in ninth-grade science when

he is illiterate in his own language," Shearin said. "If we had another kid

-- American, Asian-- functioning at that level, that's where they'll be."

Cris Correia, an attorney with Florida Rural Legal Services, said her

organization doesn't oppose special education classes-- just the separation.

ESOL students are being denied the opportunity to mingle with other students,
Correia said.

"Just the fact that the school is segregated is egregious, regardless of whether
they have to be in remedial classes," Correia said. "The facilities

themselves are entirely segregated. There is no reason to have remedial P.E."
Education Commissioner Betty Castor and attorneys for the Palm Beach

County School District could not be reached for comment.

Shearin said ESOL students were in regular classes during the first nine weeks
of school, but they failed and would not participate.

Because the school is undergoing renovation and there is a shortage of

classrooms, Shearin said he had to use portables. The southwest end was the

only space left on the grounds, which already held 10 portables, he said.

Shearin formed a task force after several students complained of feeling
isolated and after blacks and Haitians clashed earlier this year. Members of

the Haitian community have met with school officials and students. Next year

ESOL will be moved into the building and regular classes will be held in the

portables, Shearin said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: MAP
 Staff Graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 24, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN ENVOY BLAMES U.S. POLICY FOR RECORD EXODUS OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


A senior Cuban diplomat has accused the United States of encouraging the

record sea exodus of Cuban refugees by denying them visas to emigrate legally
and welcoming those who make the perilous journey in makeshift vessels.

Some analysts believe that Cuba, beset with a severe economic crisis and

shrinking opportunities, is relaxing its once-energetic efforts to prevent

maritime escapees.

"I don't believe so," said Deputy Foreign Minister Ramon Sanchez Parodi.

"It's the United States' job to patrol its borders and coasts. They have

laws -- let them apply them."

Anyone who arrives on a raft, or even a hijacked boat, is received with

open arms amidst tremendous fanfare," Sanchez Parodi said. "If they dedicate

so much propaganda to those who enter illegally, how can Cuba be

responsible?"

A 1984 accord between Cuba and the United States allows up to 20,000

Cubans to emigrate to the United States each year. Sanchez Parodi said the

United States only grants a few hundred of the visas annually.

"Why do they make it so easy to arrive illegally and so hard to arrive

legally?" Sanchez Parodi asked. "The cause is not any Cuban policy, but the

unwillingness of the U.S. to fulfill the immigration accords."

Many U.S. analysts believe the record wave of "rafters" is part of an

overall relaxation of Cuba's strict immigration policies to let out

disgruntled Cubans who could cause problems.

And some officials in Havana privately concede they believe that Cuban

coastal patrols have relaxed, though they blame it on petroleum shortages.

By May 15, 634 Cuban rafters had arrived in South Florida, the Coast Guard
reported. This year's total is expected to far exceed the record 497 Cubans

who made the trip last year.

Cuban officials are granting far more exit visas this year.

Havana lowered the travel age limit for men from 45 to 40 in March and

from 40 to 35 for women. Cuban officials have said they will probably soon

drop the exit visa age to 18.

The time Cubans are allowed to stay abroad was increased from 20 to 30

days for initial visas, which can be extended to a maximum of 90 days.

So far this year, the U.S. Interests Section in Havana -- the low-level

post that handles consular affairs because the two countries do not have full
diplomatic relations -- has issued 25,000 non-immigrant visas, compared to

34,000 for all of 1990.

Sanchez Parodi said Cuba is relaxing its immigration policies because it

has become more difficult for U.S. officials to recruit spies among Cuban

travelers.

He said the defection of a young Cuban pilot who flew undetected across

the Florida Straits in a MiG-23 jet in March demonstrates the scant attention
given to patrolling South Florida.

Sanchez Parodi laughed at a published study by the University of Miami's

Graduate School of International Studies that said Fidel Castro, if he chose

to, could destroy Turkey Point nuclear reactor in an air attack on South Dade
County.

"That would be a good joke," he said. "They know that they are in no

danger of a military attack from the south. It is not in our plans."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 6, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION EMERGENCY URGED FOR CUBAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By CHARLES HOLMES, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Amid growing concern in Congress over the rising number of Cuban refugees

streaming to South Florida, Rep. Larry Smith, D-Fla., has asked the White

House to declare an immigration emergency to direct federal money to the

problem.

Smith urged other congressmen to support his request as a House Foreign

Affairs subcommittee Wednesday began examining two troubling developments: the
refugee surge and Cuba's plan to build a nuclear power plant that may have

safety flaws.

Congressional leaders and Florida officials have expressed concern that

the increase in Cubans illegally entering the United States could signal

another huge wave like the 1980 Mariel boat lift, when about 125,000 Cubans

entered Florida.

"The possibility exists, indeed the possibility could be very real, that

Castro is preparing another surprise for America," said Rep. Robert

Torricelli, D-N.J., chairman of the subcommittee on Western Hemisphere

affairs.

As of Tuesday, 890 Cubans in small boats and rafts have arrived this year in
Florida. In all of 1990, 467 reached the United States by sea.

Officials also predict that more than 10,000 Cubans visiting the United

States as tourists could remain in the country by simply not returning to

Cuba.

Economic problems and the potential for political unrest in Cuba has led

to predictions that the rate of refugees will increase.

"You're looking at a country that is moving closer and closer to

turmoil," Smith said Wednesday.

Smith made the request in a letter Monday to President Bush.

"I am incensed that the current mass exodus from Cuba is once again about to
severely impact on Florida and its municipalities, without any assistance

from the federal government or any indication that anybody in he executive

branch even cares about what is happening in Florida," Smith wrote.

States can receive up to $35 million in federal reimbursement for the cost of
accommodating an influx of immigrants if an emergency is declared.

But a high-ranking State Department official said the volume of refugees

is not yet alarming. And a Coast Guard official told the panel that the influx
of Cubans across the Straits of Florida at its current level is manageable for
U.S. patrols.

Michael Kozak, deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-American

affairs, said while the volume of refugees will more than double from 1990,

the numbers are not troubling.

He also said the State Department has made it clear to Cuban President

Fidel Castro that the U.S. will not tolerate another Mariel boat lift. "We

will not permit it to happen again. They have that message," Kozak told the

subcommittee.

Kozak also said that U.S. officials have been monitoring the construction of
nuclear reactors in Cuba, including an on-site visit in 1989 by an official of
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

Construction flaws and the plant's location on the northern Cuban coast

could create a safety risk, say Cuban defectors and Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla.

U.S. officials have had ongoing discussions with Soviet and Cuban

officials concerning the facility, Kozak said. Cuba has agreed to adhere to

international standards and is seeking to purchase a well-regarded facility

control from a German company -- facts that should ease doubts, he said.

U.S. officials will seek another visit of the plant soon, Kozak said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/SMITH, LARRY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 14, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL REJECTS U.S. WARNING TO HALT SETTLEMENTS

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israeli leaders vowed Thursday to continue settling Jews in the occupied

West Bank and Gaza Strip despite warnings the United States might reject

further aid for Soviet Jewish immigrants unless there is a settlement freeze.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said settlements are part of Israel's

policy. Shamir said he did not believe the Bush administration would alter its
policy of helping Israel absorb the hundreds of thousands of Soviet immigrants
expected in the next few years.

One of Shamir's aides complained about the "exaggeration" of the extent

of new Jewish settlements in the occupied territories.

Despite regular announcements and news reports about new settlements being built
and old ones expanded, Yossi Achimeir said there was "no serious

activity" in the West Bank and Gaza and that construction taking place was

"a natural growth" of settlements already there.

Foreign Minister David Levy talked for almost two hours Thursday with U.S.
Secretary of State James Baker in Washington. The two men said efforts to

convene a Middle East peace conference would continue, but Baker said he was

not planning another visit there.

Baker said Syria had not responded to a letter from President Bush seeking
compromises to convene a regional peace conference.

While Baker praised Levy's efforts to move the peace process forward, he

denied Bush is considering inviting foreign ministers from the Mideast to Camp
David for extensive talks to push the peace process forward.

Speaking later, Levy said Israel also demanded a veto over the

Palestinians with whom it would negotiate and had secret understandings with

the United States to this effect.

"Israel will not sit with those it does not want to sit down with. It

will not be forced to sit with those it refuses to sit with," Levy said.

Also Thursday, six members of Israel's opposition Labor Party talked with
Egyptian leaders in Cairo, as relations between Egypt and Israel are being

buffeted by charges and counter-charges linked to failure to advance the peace
process.

The speaker of Israel's Parliament, a member of the ruling Likud

coalition, had tried to persuade the Labor Party Parliament members to stay

home because of deteriorating relations between the two governments.

According to reports in Israel, Egypt will invite Levy for an official

visit and issue a second invitation to other members of the ruling Likud

coalition, who ignored the first one sent three months ago.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/LEVY, DAVID; BAKER, JAMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 24, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS PLANS STIFF FINES FOR USING PHONY IDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to begin issuing civil

fines of up to $5,000 against anyone caught trafficking in phony documents,

now widely available to immigrants seeking work.

The INS can use the proceeds from the fines to improve immigration

enforcement activities, including the investigation of criminal aliens or the
construction of physical barriers on the Mexican border.

The fines would apply to anyone who uses, makes or knowingly accepts phony
drivers' licenses, Social Security cards and other forms of identification.

The fines range from $250 to $2,000 per document on the first offense, and

from $2,000 to $5,000 on the second violation.

The widespread availability of fraudulent documents has been blamed for

undermining a 1986 law against the hiring of undocumented workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 7, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEW FAMILY STANDS BY FREED REFUGEE

BYLINE: By LILLIAN GUEVARA-CASTRO, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Three years after his release from prison, Felix Brena says he still

carries the baggage of the boatlift.

But while he entered the United States alone 10 years ago, today his

American family stands by him.

At 35, the sinewy Cuban is on the last leg of a three-year parole, during which
he has reported annually to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

Now a partner in the garage door manufacturing company he runs with Chuck
Elensky, his sponsor and father-in-law, Brena said he wants to seek U.S.

citizenship.

Brena believes he might still be behind bars had it not been for the riots in
Atlanta and Louisiana.

Detained in Louisiana, Brena had been approved for release when news

spread at the prison that hundreds would be deported.

"We were trying to escape," Brena said. "We weren't planning (to riot).

It just happened."

Three months later, Brena was freed from the Virginia prison he had been

sent to after the riot.

Brena's chance at a life on the outside had begun a year before the riots, when
as an inmate he met the man who would be his sponsor.

Chuck Elensky of Snellville had gone to the Louisiana prison on a

construction contract, and Brena was assigned to help. They became friends,

and Elensky promised to give Brena a job when he got out.

Since then, the Elenskys have defended him from mix-ups with the law. Two years
ago, Elensky gave away his daughter in marriage to Brena.

He and Pam Brena, 30, have no children; they own a house in Snellville.

Her child, 11, from a previous marriage has taken Brena's name.

Brena said "a little bit of luck" helped him escape the fate of many

Cuban detainees.

Along the way, Brena's family says they have learned what it feels like to be a
foreigner with a record in the United States.

"To this day, Felix has no rights," Brena said. "They pull him over for

a traffic violation, and they can arrest him just because he's Cuban."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 JOEY IVANSCO/Cox Newspapers Felix Brena works on a custom garage door at E & S
Craftsmen in Atlanta.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 7, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FRIGHTENED REFUGEE HAS `FOOT ON PLANE TO CUBA'

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KURYLO, Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: TALLADEGA, ALA.


Jorge Marquez Medina's 11-year quest for political asylum and a free life

in America will soon end.

He admits it is partly his fault.

"Because of my foolish choices and mistakes, I have one foot here and one

foot on the plane to go to Cuba," said Marquez, 33, who sits in an Alabama

federal prison with 100 other Mariel Cubans likely to be deported. "I am very
afraid."

More than 650 Marielitos have been deported since the boatlift. The

federal prison in Alabama is their last stop.

Marquez, a former law student and Cuban soldier, was released twice in the past
10 years by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Twice he was

arrested.

In 1982, he was convicted of vehicular homicide after two people died in a New
York wreck. Marquez says he had been drinking because his wife in Cuba had just
told him she wanted a divorce.

Released after 21/2 years because of good behavior, including

participation in Alcoholics Anonymous, Marquez was taken into custody by the

Immigration and Naturalization Service, which paroled him in 1986. He lived in a
Chicago halfway house until 1988, when he moved his new American wife and

daughter to Kansas City, Mo.

Jobless and in need of money for an operation to remove a tumor in his

leg, Marquez tried to steal three telephones from a business. After serving

time for attempted burglary, he was transferred again to INS custody in 1989. He
was told in April that he would be deported.

He fears he may be executed on treason charges if he is returned to Cuba,
because he "spoke out against the Castro government."

His wife, Anita, lives in poverty in Kansas City. She has begged the INS

to give him another chance, saying her husband "has learned his lesson."

Marquez hasn't seen his wife or daughter Tylen, 4, in two years.

Tylen "breaks my heart when we talk on the phone," he said. "She told

me, `Daddy, I want to see you.' I say, `Baby, I ain't coming home.' "

In detention, Marquez received several commendations for tutoring

detainees in English and other classes for high school equivalency exams. A

desperate man, he often writes to U.S. lawmakers protesting treatment of

Mariel Cubans.

"I'm not asking the American public to feel sorry for me," Marquez said.

"What I'm trying to point out is that even though I'm not a citizen, I'm a

human being . . . and I deserve to be treated as such. And I've been treated

like an animal."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 JOHN SPINKS/Cox Newspapers Jorge Marquez Medina says his `foolish choices' have
left him about to be deported to Cuba, where he fears execution.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 8, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

161 HAITIANS, 2 CUBANS FOUND IN BOAT OFF MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Coast Guard picked up 161 Haitians and two Cubans who apparently were

hitching a ride to Florida on a 45-foot sailboat early Sunday.

Coast Guard Petty Officer Veronica Cady said the refugees were spotted

about 30 miles off the coast of Miami about 2 a.m.

Six Haitians, including one man, three women and two children under the

age of one, were taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami for treatment for
exposure and dehydration. The Cubans were turned over to immigration

officials.

"Apparently the (Haitians) picked the Cubans up somewhere between here

and there (Haiti), but the (Immigration and Naturalization Service) will find
out from the Cubans and Haitians when they found the (Cubans) and where,"

Cady said.

The Haitians were on Coast Guard cutters where they were being questioned Sunday
by INS officials. The Haitians will be moved to a larger cutter Monday and a
decision then will be made whether to grant them asylum or send them

back to Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 12, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN STOWAWAYS CHAINED ON SHIP WHILE AWAITING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The chaining of five Haitian stowaways awaiting deportation on a ship in

the Miami River set off a chorus of protests Thursday before immigration

officials unchained them and took them into custody.

News of the men's treatment spread quickly through Miami's volatile

Haitian community and a crowd gathered at the docks to jeer officials and

shout encouragement to the men.

The men had hidden themselves on a ship, which was bound for the Miami

River from Cap Haitien.

Two of the stowaways had jumped into the ocean about a mile from Miami

Beach on Tuesday and tried to swim to shore.

They were returned to the ship from Immigration and Naturalization

Services' custody after Wednesday evening and chained to the deck, said Cheryl
Little, a spokeswoman for the Haitian Refugee Center.

The remaining three Haitians were "caged on the (freighter's) deck,"

according to Coast Guard reports. The men have not been identified.

Immigration officials did not return phone calls Thursday.

"We have Haitians who are being treated like animals on board a ship, we

have no one willing to assume responsibility, we have a very angry community

and no one with responsibility and power willing to sit down with us and talk
about the situation," Little said before the men were taken into custody.

"It is not right," said Cameron Polynice at a community center in

Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood. "They put them in chains, like they are

slaves. We are not slaves."

Others thought the Haitians' treatment was racially motivated.

"Never would they do that to a white person," said Mona Michel. "Never

would they have chained a white person the way we've seen those chains today

on those Haitians."

About 2 p.m., the men were taken off the ship. Four men were taken to the Dade
County Jail. A 16-year-old was taken to an immigration facility south of Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 17, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AMERICA'S GOLDEN DOOR STILL CLOSED FOR HAITIANS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 397 words


The United States welcomed Rene Arocha with a smile. Wearing a suit, he

appeared last week at a news conference in Miami to talk about his exciting

new life. He brought to this country a reported 92-mph fastball-- but not his
family. Mr. Arocha, a star pitcher on the Cuban national baseball team, left

his homeland because he wants to play major-league baseball.

Alfred Isme also came to the U.S. last week. But we welcomed him a little
differently. Mr. Isme was one of five Haitians who stowed away aboard a

freighter that sailed from Cap Haitien to Miami. We don't know whether Mr.

Isme plays baseball or has a family. We didn't hear from him at a news

conference. We only saw him from a distance, chained to a ship as he awaited

deportation.

In judging immigrants, the U.S. cares less about where they're going than where
they've been. Mr. Arocha and his countrymen who survive the perilous

trip across the Florida Straits are lucky. They come from Cuba. Under the

Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, all refugees from that country who aren't

considered dangerous are allowed to stay. After only one year, they become

permanent residents. Mr. Isme and his countrymen are not so lucky. They come

from Haiti. Refugees from that country are generally judged to be fleeing

poverty, not political persecution, so they don't qualify for automatic

acceptance. They qualify for admission to the Krome Detention Center in

southern Dade County. Between 1981 and 1990, according to The New York Times,
23,000 Haitians came to the U.S.-- and eight were given political asylum.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service limits the number of

political refugees who will be accepted each year. The largest percentage,

according to U.S. Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm Beach, is for Soviet Jews

and evangelical Christians. Many of the others are evaluated on the basis of

our relationship with their country. Even during the rule of the murderous

Duvalier family, from 1957 until 1986, proving political persecution of

Haitians was difficult because we backed the Duvaliers. With an elected

government, the task is even harder, though politics in both Haiti and Cuba

has no doubt caused the poverty from which refugees flee. The unequal

treatment is the "grossest double standard you can find," Rep. Johnston

said.

The U.S. should make immigration policy fair. But we'll probably tell

Alfred Isme to work on his curve ball.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 18, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAELI OFFICIAL SEEKING AID TO HELP IMMIGRANTS ADJUST

BYLINE: By TIM O'MEILIA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Nearly 14,250 Ethiopian Jews flown from Addis Ababa to Israel in 36 hours

in May are beginning the adjustment to Israeli life in absorption camps.

"The youngsters accept the new culture as quickly as you can write this

down," said Mamuye Zere, an Ethiopian Jew who fled to Israel in 1980. "For

the old, it is difficult to change."

Zere is a social worker assigned to help the newcomers from rural Ethiopia face
the cultural shock of an industrial nation. The immigrants will stay in

the camps for a year, studying the language and learning skills to obtain jobs
and housing.

Zere told of his experiences to Jewish leaders meeting at the Jewish

Federation of Palm Beach County Wednesday. He is touring the United States,

meeting with Jewish leaders and urging their financial help in resettling

Ethiopian and Soviet Jews.

Israel also is looking for $10 billion in loan guarantees to build housing and
create jobs for the immigrants. The guarantees would enable Israel to

borrow money on the world market at better rates, said Yair Recanati, Israeli
consul in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 28, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WRETCHED REFUSE MAY FIND HOPE IN VISA SALES SCHEME

BYLINE: ROBERT DOUGLAS, BUSINESS EDITOR

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 538 words


If federal immigration officials were on the same wavelength as their State
Department counterparts, the Coast Guard could stop patrolling the waters off
Florida for Haitian refugees.

But, in typical bureaucratic fashion, the port and starboard sides of

government aren't sailing in the same direction. Consequently, we're on a

counterproductive course that is wasting taxpayers' money, sending out mixed

signals on America's commitment to human rights and missing some creative

opportunities for economic development.

Consider these facts about Haiti: With a per-capita income of just $375 a year,
it is the poorest country in this hemisphere. To ease the pain of

poverty, the State Department has allocated $77.9 million in economic aid to

Haiti for this year. But despite the recent election of a new government that
promises to be less corrupt than past dictatorships, there is no telling how

much of this trickles down to the huddled masses. Certainly not enough to

deter tempest-tossed boatloads of economic refugees from risking their lives

to escape to the U.S., which, alas, pays Coast Guard crews to round them up

and ship them back to Haiti's teeming shore.

Now consider the effect of a new immigration rule that was the subject of a
page-one report in last Sunday's paper: It makes it possible, for the first
time, to legally buy your way into the United States. Starting Oct. 1, up to

10,000 foreigners a year can qualify for permanent residence here in return

for an investment of $1 million that creates at least 10 American jobs.

IN GOD WE TRUST; ALL OTHERS, PAY CASH

Personally, I think this new initiative is about the most honest

reflection of reality in immigration policy in years. It boldly states what

must be obvious to any foreigner: Money is the key to unlocking the door to

America.

We've already sold off significant chunks of prime real estate and

industry to corporate citizens of other countries from Canada to Japan. So why
not invite foreign individuals who have the wherewithal to buy up what's left to
move in and make themselves at home?

This doesn't help many Haitians, of course. But it could if we'd adjust

our traditional foreign-aid policy to conform to the emerging

commercialization of immigration policy.

Consider this possibility: We could stop sending foreign aid to the

Haitian government and use the money we save to set up a lottery system that

offers this prize-- enough money for a winner to buy a visa to the U.S.

Using this year's foreign-aid allocation, we could give 77.9 Haitians $1

million each and invite them to bring it over and invest it in American

communities. It's an approach that has several things going for it:

* It would not increase our current foreign-aid commitment to Haiti;

* It could cut down on the number of impoverished refugees the Coast Guard
spends time and money picking out of the water; and

* It would pour foreign-aid money back into the American economy.

Most importantly, though, it would give Haitians more hope than we give

them now with a foreign-aid allocation that works out to a measly $12.33 per

person this year. It would let them share the fantasy of the American Dream

without any genuine hope of realizing it. Just like a lot of native Americans
who've missed the boat.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 7, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DADE PANEL BLASTS U.S. HAITIAN POLICY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The federal government's treatment of Haitian immigrants has become a

"running sore across the face" of Dade County, the leader of a community

relations group said Tuesday.

Brad Brown, chairman of the Dade County Community Relations Board, told a
meeting of Haitian, black and Cuban activists that his group is sending a

resolution to federal officials protesting policies on Haitians seeking

asylum.

"The U.S. should grant asylum to those fleeing from tyranny and

oppression," Brown said. "Our Haitian brothers and sisters need to hear that

they are welcomed . . . members of the community."

Federal policy encourages immigration officials to intercept refugees and
interview them at sea. Under federal law, asylum can be granted only to those
who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of political persecution, something

that can be hard to document on a ship.

But an exception is made for refugees from Cuba, who since 1966 have been
allowed under federal law to remain in the United States for at least a year

while applying for political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE / REGIONAL NEWS. Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 16, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BRINGS CHESS PLAYERS TO U.S.

BYLINE: By SHELBY LYMAN, Special to The Palm Beach Post

SECTION: TGIF; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 269 words


A vast immigration-- the second largest ever into the United States-- is

now taking place. If history is a reliable guide, the trend is good news for

American chess.

A majority of the strongest players of this century have been either

immigrants or the children of immigrants.

The perennial U.S. champion, Sammy Reshevsky, one of the strongest players in
the world in the 1940s and `50s, was born in Poland. He was superseded by

Bobby Fischer, the son of Swiss and German immigrants, who became world

champion in 1972.

Walter Browne, the dominant player in the U.S. after Fischer, was born in
Sydney, Australia. And Yasser Seirawan, who has fulfilled a similar role in

the 1980s, is Syrian by birth.

In recent years, Soviet immigrants have enriched the American chess scene. Two
of them, Boris Gulko and Gata Kamsky, have been among the very strongest

U.S. players since their arrival.

Below is a win by tournament winner Yulia Levitan, a recent Soviet

emigre, over Tatyana Kibrik, also a former Soviet, from the recent Marshall

Women's Quadrangular Tournament in New York.

Levitan Kibrik

1. Nf3 d5

2. g3 Nf6

3. Bg2 Bf5

4. O-O h6

5. d4 Nbd7

6. Nbd2 e6

7. b3 c5

8. Bb2 Be7

9. c4 dxc4

10. Nxc4 O-O

11. Nfe5 Rb8

12. Nxd7 Nxd7

13. dxc5 Nxc5

14. Be5 Qxd1

15. Rfxd1 Rbd8

16. Nd6 f6

17. Nxf5 exf5

18. Bd4 b6

19. b4 Ne4

20. a3 Rdc8

21. g4 Nd6

22. Bd5ch Kh8

23. gxf5 Rc2

24. e4 Rfc8

25. Be3 Nc4

26. Bf4 a5

27. Be6 Re8

28. Rd7 Bf8

29. Rc7 axb4

30. axb4 b5

31. Raa7 Kh7

32. e5 fxe5

33. Bxe5 Nxe5

34. Rxc2 Nf3ch

35. Kf1 Nd4

36. Bf7 Nxc2

37. Bxe8 Nxb4

38. Bxb5 h5

39. Rf7 Bc5

40. f6 Kg6

41. Be8! Black resigns.

Solution to Beginner's Corner: 1. Qc8ch Kf7; 2. Bc4ch attacking king and

queen.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  CHESS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 17, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AIDS CONFERENCE MOVED OVERSEAS; IMMIGRATION POLICY CITED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Harvard University said Friday that it would move an international AIDS

conference overseas next year, citing the Bush administration's refusal to

lift restrictions on AIDS-infected foreigners wishing to enter the United

States.

The Harvard AIDS Institute said the Eighth Annual International Conference on
AIDS, scheduled to be held in Boston in May, probably would be moved to a

European city. The new site was expected to be announced within a month.

"This is a clear statement that we don't feel comfortable with the policy

and can't go ahead with it in place," said Max Essex, chairman of the

institute.

Asked about the decision to cancel the conference, President Bush said,

"They'll find other ways to get together."

Essex, saying he was personally frustrated by problems that prompted the

move, also announced that he would step down as organizer of the forum, the

largest gathering of AIDS authorities in the world.

Jonathan Mann, head of the institute's International AIDS Center and

former head of the World Health Organization's global program on AIDS, was

named his successor.

"I always felt comfortable leading a conference that would concentrate on the
science of AIDS," Essex said. "But I don't think I was aware of how much

one would need in the way of diplomatic and political skills to hold a

conference in this country."

The rule barring AIDS-infected individuals from entering the United States was
imposed four years ago but was temporarily suspended during a conference

last year in San Francisco.

Bush defended his administration's AIDS policy in comments from his

Kennebunkport, Maine, vacation home.

"We're doing more on research on AIDS than any other country," Bush

said. "We're spending $4 billion a year on AIDS research. . . . Our policy is a
good, sound policy."

Opponents of the immigration policy say there is no public health reason

to exclude HIV-infected travelers or immigrants, because the virus cannot be

casually transmitted.

Robert Wachter, the organizer of last year's conference, said the change

of venue will make it difficult for American researchers and AIDS activists to
contribute their findings to the forum.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 20, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT GUILTY IN N.Y. FIRE THAT KILLED 87

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A jury convicted a Cuban immigrant of murder Monday for setting a fire that
killed 87 people at the illegal Happy Land social club.

Relatives of the victims wept while the jury foreman repeated the word

"guilty" 176 times, covering two counts of murder for each victim, plus

arson and assault.

Julio Gonzalez, 37, started the blaze March 25, 1990, by igniting a

dollar's worth of gasoline at the club's only exit after a fight with an ex-

girlfriend, a club coat-checker. She was one of six survivors.

Judge Burton Roberts set sentencing for Sept. 19. Gonzalez faces a maximum of 25
years to life in prison because all of the deaths stemmed from the same act.

Gonzalez came to the United States in the 1981 Mariel boatlift.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 7, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ODDS ARE ON THE IRISH IN IMMIGRATION LOTTERY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


At 12:01 a.m. on Oct. 14, the U.S. government will begin a mail-in lottery

aimed at giving 40,000 foreigners a chance to live in America permanently.

In authorizing the program, Congress included what amounts to an

affirmative action program for Irish natives. At least 40 percent of the

40,000 "winners"-- or 16,000 -- must be Irish nationals.

Officials said applications that arrive before the official date will be

disqualified. After that, immigrant visas will be issued to the first 40,000

qualified applicants. The mail-in period ends at 11:59 p.m. Oct. 20.

Applications must typed or printed and include the applicant's name, date and
place of birth and that of their spouse and any children, along with their

U.S. or overseas address and the name of the U.S. Embassy or consulate where

their visa case should be sent.

The information must be mailed to AA-1 Program, P.O. Box 6000, Arlington, Va.
22218-0001.

The forces behind the program, mostly members of the Irish-American caucus on
Capitol Hill, wanted to help the large numbers of Irish who have overstayed
their visas because there are so few jobs back home.

Officials expect 5 million applications. Applicants who lose out next

month need not despair. Similar lotteries are planned for 1992 and 1993.

Natives born in the following countries or territories are entitled to

apply:

Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,

Estonia, Finland, France, Guadeloupe, New Caledonia, Germany, Great Britain,

Northern Ireland, Bermuda, Gibraltar, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland,

Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco,

Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Sweden, Switzerland and Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 7, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SCHOOLS CAN'T ASK IMMIGRANTS FOR ID

BYLINE: By VIOLA GIENGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The state Department of Education has ordered the Palm Beach County school

system to stop asking for immigrant registration numbers and to move non-

English speaking students out of portable classrooms at Boca Raton High

School.

The department found evidence to support complaints lodged in May by

Florida Rural Legal Services Inc. and two other advocacy groups, said

Clenteria Knight, the department's supervisor of special programs. District

officials say the problems have been corrected.

The district agreed to stop schools from repeatedly asking students for their
Social Security numbers. It also has dropped the request for immigrant

registration numbers, said Cristina Correia, an attorney with Florida Rural

Legal Services, which provides free or reduced-cost legal representation.

At Boca Raton High School this year, only two of eight classes of such

students are in portables instead of four out of six classes last year. The

school is grouping all of its classes by subject-area department rather than

type of student, Vice Principal Steve Csutoros said.

"I think we'll have to see to make sure exactly what they are going to

do," Correia said. "We're very happy to have them willing to work with us."

Legal Services is working with several other groups to monitor compliance with
an agreement the state signed last year to improve education for

immigrant students who speak little or no English.

Even though the complaints have been resolved, problems continue with

sensitivity to immigrant students and the quality of education they receive,

Correia said.

"I think they are problems that are going on throughout the entire school
district," she said. "There are just not enough people to speak (Haitian)

creole. Students do not understand what is going on. Things are getting sent

home that are not in the home language."

While the district can ask once for students' Social Security numbers,

repeated demands for identification could scare away students who are illegal
immigrants but who nevertheless are entitled to public education under federal
laws, the groups said in their complaint.

The district was asking for the identification so it could prove it was

teaching the students and collect money for the services, said Joanne Kaiser,
director of elementary education. Her department oversees education for all

grades of non-English speaking students.

As for Boca Raton High, putting all students whose English is limited

-- most of them Haitian, Hispanic and Asian-- into a cluster of classrooms

away from other students amounted to illegal segregation, the lawyers said.

Although some educators contend the separation benefits students, it could

hamper their learning, both academic and cultural, they contend.

Many of the students ended up in portable buildings last year because more
enrolled than were expected. They were placed in portables as the buildings

arrived, Csutoros said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 9, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HARD WORK IS THE BOTTOM LINE

BYLINE: By KENNETH BOHANNON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS DAY 1; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 346 words


Immigrants who move to Florida and Palm Beach County hoping to fulfill

dreams of opportunity often find another reality: working for low wages, if

they're able to find work at all.

But a few others find that patience and hard work help them become large

contributors to the county's economy as employers.

"First-generation immigrants, when they first arrive here, probably don't

add dramatically for the first few years to the economy, and

disproportionately access social service programs," said Duke Austin, a

spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington,

D.C.

"But as you move away from those initial years, they seem to do better

than native Americans who access the social service system at the same time," he
said.

A U.S. Labor Department report says immigrants are more likely to be self-
employed than American-born workers.

The report said 9.2 percent of the immigrant labor force in metropolitan

areas is self-employed, compared with 7.1 percent of those born in the United
States.

Among the states, Florida ranked fifth during the past decade in the

number of immigrants. In 1989, the latest year for which statistics are

available, 48,000 immigrants settled in Florida. In 1988, the number was

65,000.

Immigrants have a cultural cohesiveness and appear more willing to wait

for financial rewards than other Americans, the report said.

Immigrants are not required to be U.S. citizens to own a business. They

often locate their businesses in ethnic neighborhoods, which allows them to

avoid some problems of assimilation by maintaining their social status and

language.

Immigrant business owners help invigorate the economy and often supply

jobs for family members and others.

Palm Beach County's service economy is suited to immigrants because it is the
most recession-proof sector and offers opportunity for low-cost entry into
business.

The Palm Beach Post spoke with four immigrants who have started businesses in
Palm Beach County.

There is no secret to success, they said. But all of them talk of hard

work, sacrifice, years of saving money and family support.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 10, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT STUDENTS NOT TREATED FAIRLY BY TEACHERS, STATE IS TOLD

BYLINE: By VIOLA GIENGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 577 words


State officials investigating complaints about how the Palm Beach County

School District handles immigrant students heard a litany of accusations about
insensitive teachers and administrators ignoring Haitian and Hispanic

students, punishing them more and mistreating them, according to a letter

released Monday.

The school district has addressed the three specific problems cited in a

complaint that Florida Rural Legal Services filed in May with the state

Department of Education.

But the department sent a letter to the district Monday notifying it of

other complaints it heard in July while talking to parents and others about

the original allegations. They include:

* Teachers disliking Haitian and Hispanic children, being insensitive to

their culture and language and making it more difficult to learn English by

berating them for speaking with an accent.

* Some teachers giving A's to immigrant students who speak little or no

English to keep them quiet in class.

* Administrators not evaluating and placing students properly. In one

case, four siblings ranging in age from 15 to 20 were placed in ninth grade at
Boca Raton High School. School officials reported that they had trouble

interpreting one of the students' transcripts from a Haitian school, which

showed that the student had secondary schooling in Haiti.

* Immigrant students being disciplined more than others in Belle Glade.

* A summer school teacher telling a student who was absent one day not to come
back.

* Teachers insulting and degrading students in class.

No formal complaints have been filed, and the Department of Education has not
tried to verify them, according to the letter from Altha F. Manning, chief of
the department's Bureau of Compensatory Education.

"We request that you review these issues and consider intervention

. . . to avoid further formal complaints," Manning wrote.

Some district officials cried foul. In putting the allegations on paper,

the Education Department either ignored or didn't hear the district's side,

said School Board attorney Hazel Lucas.

In the case of the Boca Raton High students, the school didn't get the

information for a long time and risked accusations of false record-keeping if
the documents weren't verified, she said.

Ulysses Smith, a supervisor in charge of schools in the west area of the

county, said his office had heard no complaints of discrimination in

discipline.

"I don't believe that happens really," he said. "I'd be surprised."

The Education Department recommended the district find people who can help
interpret transcripts and assess students' proper grade levels, issue orders

and provide training to teachers on cultural sensitivity and train parents to
deal with school-related problems.

Superintendent Monica Uhlhorn noted that teachers and other employees are
starting to get some of the training they need to deal with students of

different backgrounds.

In Prince George's County, Md., where she worked before, district

specialists went to schools experiencing an influx of new kinds of students to
train employees how to deal with them.

"We certainly cannot and will not tolerate the kind of (incidents) that

are being suggested," she said, cautioning that the allegations hadn't been

proven. "If those things do happen, we have to teach teachers the appropriate
ways of dealing with cultural differences that they have not had the

experience of dealing with. That will make them more secure, and it will let

the youngsters' self-esteem (remain) intact."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 15, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ROOTS MEET AT ELLIS ISLAND MUSEUM

BYLINE: By RITA GIORDANO, Newsday

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 5G

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


From many lands they came, as millions of immigrants before them had done.

French, Irish, Greek, Chinese, Italian and more, they filled the decks of

boats whose humming engines pulled them away from land and seaward into New

York Harbor. Necks craned and eyes grew wide as the Statue of Liberty loomed

larger and larger. And then, just moments later, there it was: the green grass
of land, the red brick and copper domes of the Great Hall. The gateway to the
New World.

Even the T-shirts said so.

The Ellis Island Immigration Museum turned 1 year old Sept. 10. Opened to the
public last year with great pomp and circumstance, this former immigration
station, which saw the processing of some 17 million new Americans from 1892

to 1954, has had, by most accounts, a quite successful first year.

"Since it opened, we must have had 2 million visitors," said Peg Zitko,

spokeswomen for the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, the

organization that oversaw the raising of $160 million in donations for the

museum's restoration.

Given that 40 percent of all U.S. citizens can trace an ancestor to Ellis
Island, it's no wonder that for many Americans a trip to the museum is a visit
with friendly ghosts, a rekindling of the past.

Of course, like any new enterprise, the museum has not been without its

problems. The phones that allow visitors to listen to immigrants' oral

histories have been on the blink from time to time. And some visitors have

been less than thrilled when U.S. Park Service rangers asked them to dispose

of their chewing gum (signs point out receptacles for gum-- to protect the

museum-- but the rangers have lightened up). Meanwhile, a planned computerized
listing of all immigrants is still in need of financing and is possibly a few
years away, according to Ellis staff.

GRAFFITI TARGET

But perhaps the museum's biggest problem has been defacement of the

Immigration Wall of Honor, a 950-foot-long portion of the island's seawall on
which the names of 200,000 immigrants are inscribed on copper plating. Some of
the damage has been caused by innocent wear and tear, but the wall also has

been the victim of graffiti, and Ellis officials are looking into ways to get
rid of the damage and prevent it in the future.

"We think we're going to address it with a sealant or with a design we'll be
announcing in the fall," spokeswoman Zitko said.

That design, which is expected to be announced next month, will be of a

second Wall of Honor to be unveiled next year and which, Zitko said, could

incorporate the existing wall.

Indeed, visitors to Ellis cluck disapprovingly at "Tony was here" and

other emblems. But those etchings aren't nearly enough to put a damper on the
anticipation and interest among Ellis' guests.

The original guests, of course, often faced a terrible journey over rough seas,
fear and confusion at Ellis and perhaps discrimination on the mainland. On the
other side of the island, which is closed to visitors and has been

considered for commercial development, are the old infirmary wards where

thousands of immigrants were detained for health reasons, or died. The Ellis

museum doesn't gloss over those facts, and many a non-American noted a version
of U.S. history they had not known.

For tourist and pilgrim alike, the visit usually starts with a ferry ride that
ends outside the wide walkway to the Registry Building, home of the

museum. Then, it's under a large glass canopy to the massive baggage room

where immigrants left the rucksacks and satchels that held all their worldly

goods.

From there, some visitors, as the museum planners suggest, take an

elevator or walk up the stairway to the Great Hall, where the immigrants

underwent a battery of examinations. Others take in the free documentary film
that depicts the immigrants' ordeal in photographs and their own voices. Many,
like John and Marion Malinowski, a retired couple from South Amboy, N.J., were
quite moved.

"You say, `Geez, my dad and mom went through that,' " the husband said.

"My mom came here at 16. She thought the streets were lined with gold.

She came from a family of 14. She never saw them again."

Still others walk to the opposite side of the first floor to study

patterns of immigration shown in charts, maps and in points of light on a

globe. It was there that 10-year-old Stefanie Berrios of Brooklyn, N.Y., was

getting a little impatient. ' ' When are we going to see grandma?" she asked,
referring to her great-grandmother Antoinette Bonosoro's name on the Wall of

Honor outside.

For Stefanie's grandmother, Mary Zurlo, the museum was a visit with

memories. She recalled her first visit, last September.

"It gave me chills," she said, smiling.

When her mother was alive, she told stories about the terrible sea voyage from
Italy, about eating oranges to stave off sickness, about being a young

bride in an arranged marriage traveling with a man she barely knew to a

strange land.

"Can you imagine the feeling?" Zurlo said. "She said she felt like she

went to the end of the world."

PLACE OF REFLECTION

For many of the immigrants, the only thing more frightening than this new land
was being sent back from it. For most, that fate was decided under the

high, vaulted ceiling of the Great Hall on the museum second floor. During the
peak immigration years, 1900-1920, as many as 5,000 people a day would file

through the huge room, lugging crying babies, speaking virtually every tongue in
the world, waiting for the physical and mental exams that could result in

their rejection. Now the Great Hall is a place of reflection, a place to

commune with the past.

Isabel Betterbed was only 6 months old when she passed through Ellis, her Syrian
family having fled the Turks, so her mother had to tell her what it was like. At
79, she was on her third visit to the Ellis museum, accompanied

by her husband George, whose Turkish parents also came through Ellis.

"They did a nice job," she said approvingly.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1990 FILE PHOTO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 25, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSH WANTS TO LET 20% MORE SOVIET REFUGEES INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration Tuesday proposed a 20 percent increase in the

admission of Soviet refugees to the United States next year and predicted a

continuing flood of asylum seekers from Southeast Asia, Central America and

the Middle East.

The administration proposed to admit 142,000 refugees in the fiscal year

that begins Oct. 1. Of those, 10,000 will have their benefits paid by private
sources such as religious groups, while the rest will be covered by the

federal government for eight months.

This year, federal benefits extend for 12 months, and much of the

additional burden is expected to fall on states where refugees settle.

Refugees, unlike immigrants, are people who apply to the United States for
asylum because of a "well-founded fear of persecution." They are supposed to

be admitted on a case-by-case basis. The administration's report is an

estimate of how many refugees can be expected from each country, but is not

intended to be a quota on admissions.

The administration had expected 131,000 refugees this year, although only
112,300 are expected to arrive. The number of Soviet refugees had been

expected to reach 50,000, but Soviet delays earlier this year in providing

exit visas reduced that number to 39,000 and created an enormous backlog of

would-be emigrants.

Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, testifying before the

Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and refugee affairs, said the

administration wants to add the 11,000 difference to the 50,000 Soviet

refugees expected in fiscal 1992, for a total of 61,000.

Eagleburger said the failed hard-line Communist coup in the Soviet Union

last month has not slowed the flow of refugees, whose departure has

accelerated since Moscow relaxed departure rules in July.

But he said there have been recent unconfirmed reports that "local

emigration authorities are reverting to the restrictive practices" in force

prior to the new law. He warned that "if such a trend develops" as republics

take over control of emigration from central authorities, "it will adversely

affect U.S. relations with those republics that follow such practices."

Eagleburger said the number of Soviet Jews expected to come to the United States
in the next three years could be about 40,000 annually, but he said it was
unclear whether that number would increase because of a rise in anti-

Semitism in the breakaway Soviet republics or decrease if the republics

become more democratic.

The administration expects fewer refugees from Eastern Europe and the

newly independent Baltic countries, a decrease from 7,000 to 3,000. But it

expects slight increases from Southeast Asia and Africa, particularly Liberia,
Sudan and Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 3, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA CAN'T HANDLE REFUGEES, CONGRESS TOLD

BYLINE: By LARRY LIPMAN, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida officials warned Congress Wednesday that an expected flood of

refugees combined with fewer federal dollars is straining state and local

government services.

"It's past the critical stage. It's past the emergency stage. I don't

know what the next stage is -- I don't have the word for it -- but we're

there," state Rep. Ron Silver, D-Miami, told the House Judiciary subcommittee on
international law, immigration and refugees.

He said classrooms in Dade County have nearly 40 students and next year

could have more because of immigration.

"That affects every taxpayer in the county. It not only affects the

refugees' children, it affects our taxpayers' children as well."

Rep. Larry Smith, D-Fla., said an average of 336 additional Nicaraguan-

born students enrolled in Dade County schools each month during the three

years ending in June, at a cost of $588 a student.

"The Nicaraguans may have entered the U.S. in Brownsville, Texas, but

they migrated to Dade County, which is feeling the long-term impact," Smith

said.

Nancy Wittenberg, Florida's refugee program administrator, said 1 million
refugees have entered the state over the past 40 years, and 85 percent

remained as residents. In the past 10 years, Florida has absorbed the second-
highest number of refugees -- after California -- if the 1980-81 Mariel

Cuban and Haitian entrants are included, she said.

But officials in Florida and other states are worried that the federal

government is not living up to its commitment to bear the burden for accepting
refugees.

In the fiscal year that ended Monday, about 101,000 refugees were admitted to
the United States, and the government budgeted $410.9 million for their

resettlement costs. In this fiscal year, the government expects 142,000

refugees to arrive but has allocated the same amount for their care.

Federal refugee assistance -- originally authorized in 1980 for 36 months -- has
dwindled from 12 months last year to eight months.

The federal government also has stopped paying states' refugee costs under
Medicaid and Aid to Families with Dependent Children.

Florida wants the federal government to increase refugee assistance to 12
months, pay for Medicaid and AFDC coverage, and allow states greater

flexibility in providing aid to refugees.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (STAFF GRAPHIC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 7, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TEACHERS SEEK ARBITRATOR IN PAY DISPUTE OVER IMMIGRANT PROGRAM

BYLINE: By VIOLA GIENGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


As thousands of angry teachers start taking classes to help teach students

who speak little or no English, the teachers union is preparing to ask an

arbitrator to decide whether they should be paid.

Several classes started last week to train teachers in instructing

immigrant students. State certification is required under a pact reached last
year between the state Department of Education and several advocacy

organizations who threatened to sue the state if it didn't agree to provide

equal and adequate education for such students.

The rules forcing many English, language arts and elementary teachers to

take 300 hours of courses in the next 21/2 years outraged teachers and

prompted the union to demand relief. The Palm Beach County Classroom Teachers
Association has focused on both the school district and the state Department

of Education for what it considers "punitive anti-teacher regulations."

From the Palm Beach County School Board, it wants the $12 an hour

stipulated in the employment contract for district-required training. But the
school district says teachers don't have to attend the free classes.

"All we're doing is offering the training for them to make it easier,"

said Mark Buckingham, director of employee relations. The alternative would be
for teachers to pay for courses at a university.

But it is the district that could fire employees for not having the

correct state certification for their particular jobs, union Executive

Director David Smith said. Although district officials have said they merely

would refer the teacher to the state and the state has said it would take no

action, teachers don't want to take that chance, Smith said.

"With the education bureaucracy, you don't know where it'll end up," he

said.

So the union will ask a federal arbitrator to settle the issue.

In the meantime, Superintendent Monica Uhlhorn hopes the state Department of
Education will help. In a meeting with state officials Sept. 27, the

department promised to try to persuade the advocacy groups to give teachers

more time to comply, Uhlhorn said.

The department also is looking for ways to overlap some of the training

with that required for new teachers, she said. And a Miami television station
and Florida International University have produced a weekly training program

that teachers can watch to meet the requirements of the agreement.

Although the state praised the district's plan for improving education for
students who are not proficient in English, the plan probably didn't have to

be so ambitious, Uhlhorn said.

"What the system did was a really excellent plan, an energetic plan, and

they felt they were going by what was expected by the Legislature," said

Uhlhorn, who became superintendent after the plan was written.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 9, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VISA LOTTERY OFFERS `LONG SHOT' AT DREAM

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: NORTH PALM BEACH


Somewhere in the heavy stream of mail flowing to a special ZIP code in a

Washington suburb this week will be John and Sally Vening's American dream.

The British expatriates are mailing 500 entries to a State Department

lottery that will make 40,000 immigrant visas available to people from 34

nations.

Postal officials are expecting 5 million applications to come into its

Merrifield, Va., post office.

"It's a long shot, but it's one we can't afford to ignore," said Vening,

who came to the United States on an investor visa in 1982. The visa gives them
legal status, but they cannot travel outside the country, and their children

are not eligible for work permits.

Vening and his wife and their two English-born children used a program

that grants temporary status to foreigners who invest $150,000 in a business

that employs Americans.

The Venings, who own a Lake Park dry cleaning store, must renew their

visas each year by sending financial and personal statements to the federal

government.

"With no end in sight, we have to go through this yearly ritual," said

Vening, who said the process costs about $1,000 in paper work and legal fees. He
estimates his cost of mailing 500 visa forms for the lottery will be about $300
for postage, printing and paper.

The visa lottery, which begins one minute after midnight Monday is open to all
legal or undocumented immigrants in the United States and foreigners who

want to come to America. The lottery will be held again in 1992 and 1993.

The Venings' attorney, Chandler Finley, estimates about 1,000 people from Palm
Beach County will apply for the visas.

"There is no fee up front; you just mail in the application," Finley

said. "The prize is permanent residency."

There is no application form. All that is needed is the name, date and

birthplace of the applicant, spouse and children, a mailing address and the

location of the U.S. consular office where the visa registration should be

sent. The spouse and children do not need separate applications.

The applicant does not need an offer of employment in the United States to be
selected in the lottery but must have the offer at the time the visa is

issued.

Congress approved the visa lottery to give more opportunities to Europeans and
others adversely affected by a 1965 immigration law that allowed for a

large influx of Latin Americans and Asians.

Of the 40,000 visas to be granted, 16,000 are reserved for people born in
Ireland.

"It's a windfall, if you you happen to be Irish," said immigration

lawyer Michael Weiss, who has offices in Miami and Boca Raton.

The windfall is credited to Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the Senate
Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs. He has defended his

position, saying the Irish had been limited for years to 1,000 visas a year.

"This is a form of amnesty without calling it that," Weiss said. "It's

aimed at the people in the United States, either here legally or illegally."

"It's really not a lottery," he said. "It's a first-come, first-serve

registration program."

A State Department program in 1989 selected 20,000 visa applications in

random order from more than 3.2 million entries.

The current "lottery" is not a drawing but a registration of

applications in the order they are received at the State Department, which

receives its mail from a Merrifield, Va., post office. To be eligible, the

letters must arrive at the post office box after 12:01 a.m. Monday and before
Oct. 21.

The post office processes mail 24 hours a day, including holidays such as
Monday, Columbus Day.

Postal officials also said there is no advantage to dropping the mail at

the Merrifield post office at 12:01 a.m. because it will be intermingled with
mail coming through domestic and overseas channels.

"Any mail coming into this facility from Florida would be processed at the

same time," said Robert Faruq, spokesman for the Merrifield post office. A

letter arriving before midnight may be sent on to the State Department, making
it ineligible or be held up because of mail volume and be first in line.

"We're expecting hundreds of people at the post office," said Amy

Novick, associate director for the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington. "The temptation is just too great."

A letter mailed from Miami or West Palm Beach takes an average of three

days to reach the Merrifield post office, said Miami post office spokesman Ann
Mankowski.

The difficulty in targeting delivery and the odds of being among the

24,000 non-Irish winners does not leave applicants optimistic.

"I have about as much chance at winning this as I do winning the Florida

Lottery," Vening said.

HOW TO FILE

* MAIL LETTERS in a standard envelope to: AA-1 Program, P.O. Box 60000,

Arlington, Va. 22218-0001, USA. (In upper left hand corner of envelope, write
your country of origin.)

* THE LETTER: There is no application form or fee. The letter must include the
name and address of applicant; date and place of birth, names, dates and

places of births of applicant, spouse and children; and the U.S. consular

office to which a visa registration should be sent, ordinarily the U.S.

Embassy in the applicant's country of residence.

* MORE INFORMATION: Call (202) 663-1600 for a recorded message.

* WHO QUALIFIES: Natives of the following countries are entitled to apply:

Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,

Estonia, Finland, France (including Guadeloupe and New Caledonia), Germany,

Great Britain and Northern Ireland (including Bermuda and Gibraltar), Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lichtenstein, Lithuania,

Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Sweden,

Switzerland and Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ALLEN EYESTONE/STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER FOR BRITON JOHN VENING AND HIS
FAMILY, THE LOTTERY IS AN OPPORTUNITY `WE CAN'T AFFORD TO IGNORE.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 14, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MILLIONS OF GREEN CARD APPLICATIONS FLOOD POST OFFICE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, VA.


Postal workers waded through thousands of immigrants and millions of green

card applications Sunday as the deadline approached for an immigration visa

lottery.

Many immigrants delivered more than 1,000 applications each, hoping to

improve their odds. "If you make more letters, you have a better chance,"

said Stasia Pawlikowska, a Polish immigrant who drove from Chicago to deliver
1,020 applications for herself and friends. "I have a good chance."

The State Department will accept the first 40,000 valid applications for

immigration visas it receives after 12:01 a.m. today at a Merrifield post

office box.

State Department officials predicted they would receive 5 million

applications. But by Sunday, the Postal Service already had processed 4

million, and workers were sorting through another 2 million, spokesman Robert
Faruq Sr. said.

Although the State Department tried to discourage immigrants from bringing the
applications in person, Fairfax County police estimated that 30,000

immigrants visited the post office Saturday. A similar number was expected by
midnight Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 15, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POST OFFICE PROCESSES 2 MILLION APPLICATIONS IN GREEN CARD LOTTERY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: MERRIFIELD, VA.


Postal officials said Monday that 2 million applications for green cards

have been processed from immigrants in a lottery to become one of 40,000 new

legal residents of the United States.

"We have approximately another 4 million to 5 million (applications)

waiting in the wings to either be processed or verified," said Postal Service
spokesman Robert Faraq at the Merrifield General Collection facility, where

the applications are being processed.

Many immigrants tried to improve their odds by delivering more than 1,000
petitions each during the weekend.

The State Department is accepting the first 40,000 valid applications for
immigration visas received by the department after 12:01 a.m. Monday. The

applications could have been submitted to the Merrifield post office as early as
7 p.m. Saturday night.

About 15 million applications are expected by the time the process ends

Saturday, officials said.

Faraq said uncertainty about the deadline caused thousands to congregate

unnecessarily near the post office for more than a week.

There were no arrests or injuries reported as postal workers set up

collection bins around the property to disperse the crowd.

Despite Monday being a federal holiday, several hundred applicants were on hand
at midday to turn in their papers.

But immigrants who used local post offices may face better odds than the

thousands who flocked to Virginia, Faraq said. "From fingering through the

mail, what I see is mail from outside this area."

The first 300,000 applications were delivered to State Department

officials at 4 a.m. Monday. "I think it's safe to assume the State Department
has already received all of the mail they need for consideration," Faraq

said.

WHAT'S AHEAD

* THE STATE Department is accepting the first 40,000 valid applications for

visas received by the department after 12:01 a.m. Monday.

* AS MANY as 15 million are expected by the time the process ends Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info box at end of story.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 17, 1991 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PBIA IS AN OASIS COMPARED WITH JFK

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 96 words


I hope that Palm Beachers and the snowbirds returning to Florida really

appreciate our beautiful Palm Beach International Airport.

On my recent return from Europe, I had to go through immigration and

customs at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City. What a

nightmare! People herded like cattle, rude employees, automatic walkways and

escalators not working, everything dirty and dingy. What an impression for

first-time foreign travelers to the United States!

But what a wonderful feeling when we finally arrived at PBIA -- clean,

beautiful and calm.

Terry Sargent

Tequesta\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(1989 FILE PHOTO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 26, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAUNTED BY DREAMS OF FREEDOM AND DEATH

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR and ANA VECIANA-SUAREZ, Palm Beach Post
StaffWriters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1717 words


The bad omen came the night before the disaster. A few of the 63 Haitian

seafarers were visited by the same dream, still vivid after 10 years: that the
storm-tossed Le Nativite would never make it to Florida.

When the ramshackle 30-foot boat spilled the Haitians into the churning

sea the next morning, its captain clung desperately to his pregnant wife, Elda
Cantave. A towering wave knocked her out of his arms, then sent her tumbling

with a mighty crash. When Cantave opened her eyes, she was lying on the wet

sand, next to a lifeless body. It was her husband.

By dawn on Oct. 26, 1981, the bodies of 33 of her fellow travelers would wash
ashore in northern Broward County, their dreams of a better life ending

on the shore of the promised land.

A decade later, that same bad dream is a recurring nightmare: Desperate

immigrants fleeing poverty, violence and brutal dictatorship continue dying as
they try to sneak in the back doors of the United States. In four incidents

this year, at least 18 people from Cuba and Hispaniola died in the waters

along Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast.

Many of those who survive the harrowing voyages are still being turned

back by contradictory, confusing U.S. immigration policies, policies that

often confound those who attempt to enter the United States legally as well.

Elda Cantave's story is a tale for all of them.

* At 25, Cantave already had five children by the time she and her

husband, Serge Oscar, set sail on La Nativite with 61 others from the Baie de
L'Accul at Cap Haitien, 100 miles north of Port-au-Prince.

She left her children behind with her mother on Aug. 26, 1981. Two

children had a rash all over their bodies, a common symptom of the myriad

diseases of malnourishment. Cantave said the ailment was caused by a "spell"

someone cast, a typical explanation in a land where magic and realism are

intertwined.

They had been drifting through the Windward Passage for less than a day

when the homemade boat began to fill up with water. Luckily, they soon sighted
land, Cuba's Punta Maisi.

Cuban authorities let the Haitians live on the outskirts of a nearby

town, Baracoa, for 27 days, the time it took to make the vessel even

marginally seaworthy. "The Cuban military gave us food, rice, fish and meat,

and Caribbean food," Cantave said. Then the group set off again.

They got a different reception in the Bahamas, where "soldiers shot at

us and said you have to go," Cantave said. She believes the boat was off

Nassau, though others believe they were close to one of the outlying keys,

like Long Cay.

Oscar was not much of a navigator. They turned back out to sea, but wound up in
Cuba again. Cantave thinks they drifted back to Cuba four or five times. "We
went back and forth so many times, I lost the notion of time,"

Cantave says. Some Haitians wanted to turn back, but Oscar insisted on

continuing.

Finally, they came upon a Cuban policeman of Haitian descent who could

speak their native creole.

"He said Florida was only 90 miles away and told us how to get here,"

she said.

According to other testimonies, Cuban authorities did better than that.

Others say they towed the boat right out to sea and pointed them in the right
direction.

"Some had hope, and some lost it," Cantave said. "Two said the boat

would never reach the coast. Death was before us."

It came just before dawn.

THE DISASTER:

`DUMPED IN THE SEA'

Cantave, who now works at a Miami nursing home, remembers being asleep when the
bright lights of South Florida were sighted.

"They said to wake up, we were near the shore."

The seas were frighteningly rough. But what capsized the boat, according

to Cantave, was the wake of a Coast Guard cutter that passed them in the dark.
"He didn't see us," Cantave said. "We yelled help, help, but he was

going too fast. All the people were dumped into the sea."

She denies reports that the boat split up, possibly seeing an implicit

criticism of her husband, the captain. Initial reports that Serge Oscar had

left the ship to swim ashore before the boat capsized were later discounted.

"My husband grabbed me because I couldn't swim. But a wave broke over us

and tore us apart. The wave swept me to the shore. There was a dead person

near me. Then, I realized it was my husband."

ON THE BEACH:

`SOMETHING BAD'

Hillsboro Beach then, as now, is a quiet place; much of the beachfront is

private. This year, the police in this 31/2-mile strip of town in northern

Broward have not had a single homicide.

The first call that Monday morning 10 years ago crackled in at 5:26 a.m.

from a resident at the LeBaron Apartments on State Road A1A. The woman in 303E
had spotted a group of dazed people wandering the beach. She thought they were
Haitians.

Joe Dente, a patrolman finishing up the midnight shift, responded to the

call. No big deal, he thought. Hillsboro Beach is a popular landing place for
refugee boats because a nearby lighthouse is used as a landmark. Just two

months earlier, a boatload of about 100 Haitians had landed there.

Dente and other officers made at least five trips in their patrol cars,

shuttling the 30 Haitian survivors to the police station about half a mile

north on A1A.

"You could tell they were scared," recalled Dente, now a corporal. "A

couple of them spoke English, and they said something bad had happened, but

they didn't say anything about bodies on the beach.

"It was like the twilight zone or something," says Dente, now a

corporal. "I'll never understand why one of them didn't speak up and say,

' Hey look, my friends, my family members are drowning out there.' "

Cantave said she and the other survivors tried to alert the police.

"There were people who told the police there were people in the sea, but

they didn't understand," she said.

But at 5:46 someone else called the cops. The first bodies had begun to

wash ashore. In the pre-dawn darkness, Sgt. Dan Hynes surveyed the pounding

surf with his binoculars. The ocean was choppy-- 5 to 6 feet-- with strong

winds, and it was difficult to see anything in the tan-colored shallows. But

in the dim light, he spotted what appeared to be a boat.

He ran down and immediately found five bodies on the beach. Looking out to sea,
he saw several more figures bobbing on the waves as the tide came in. He dove in
and began pulling out bodies.

"The waves were very high, and every time you thought you had gotten a

hold of something, the tide took the body back out," Hynes said.

IN THE CONDOS:

A HORRIFYING SIGHT

Residents of Opal Towers condominiums remember that eerie dawn that they

woke up to the thumping rhythm of Coast Guard helicopters.

The first glimpses of light illuminate a horrifying, other-worldly sight.
Bodies, some naked and other in threadbare clothing, were strewn on the beach.
Joe Ranieri, a retired businessman and a Navy veteran, rushed to the beach about
7 a.m. to help with the rescue. But he was not prepared for what he saw. A
pregnant woman lay stretched out on the sand, frozen in agony. One woman was
gripping a last handful of sand. Another man still had a toothbrush in his
pocket. His arms were stretched toward the sky. Another victim still clutched a
gunnysack that contained a pair of tattered brown shorts, a stained jacket

and a plastic-wrapped, blue-bound edition of Prayers from the New Testament.

Ranieri could see the 30-foot La Nativite. It was made of wooden planks with
cement wedged in where the beams joined, and its hand-stitched blue

canvas sail was snarled around the bow. Scattered about inside were a dried

shark's fin, a brown, half-laced boot, a few tin cans full of seawater and a

length of faded flowered cloth. The name was painted in brown on the white

hull.

"I couldn't believe the boat had made it this far," Ranieri recalled.

"You know people had to be very desperate to have climbed onto that boat

to make the trip."

Down by the beach, the police officers were fending off onlookers and

putting the bodies in plastic bags-- until the bags ran out. A tractor that

dragged a rake, usually used to clear the beach of seaweed and debris, began

hauling the bodies away, a technique that inspired months of hate mail against
authorities. To accommodate the corpses, the Broward County health department
rented a 42-foot refrigerated trailer.

IN MIAMI:

`I'M USED TO IT'

After surviving the voyage, Cantave spent three uncomfortable months in

Krome.

"I was pregnant so I had problems. I couldn't eat just anything they gave me. I
was sick all the time."

After her release, she moved in with an uncle. Cantave said she never

dreamed how alien the United States would seem. "I didn't like it at all at

first," she said. "Now I'm used to it."

On June 12, 1982, she gave birth to Serge, the namesake of her drowned

husband. The child was conceived during the ill-starred voyage.

Around then, Cantave says, she had another dream, this time a good omen,

in which her husband appeared to her in vision that seemed as real as life.

"He said don't cry, because I'm going to send you someone else. A

paradise," Elda recounted solemnly.

When she met Jean Paradis at the home of mutual friends, she was certain

he was the one. Paradis has become a father to Serge Jr., now a sparky 9-year-
old cut-up. They have had four more children together. Cantave's 12-year-

old, Julie, has joined her from Haiti, and she'd eventually like to bring

the other four.

They put $10,000 down on a $58,000 two-bedroom cinder-block home, and they both
are working to keep up with the mortgage payments. They are building an

arched porch around the front of the home and two more rooms in back.

Cantave would like to learn to speak English as well as her American-born
children, so she can get a nursing degree. For now, she is an aide at the

Clarridge House, a nursing home.

"She's good. She works well with the patients. She cares," said Robert

Brown, the evening supervisor.

She works the overnight shift. A younger sister lives with the family and helps
out with the housework and the kids. It's not an easy life.

"It's hard for me, money," her husband said. "People don't help the

poor people. I don't want MasterCard or anything. I have too many kids. It

might cause me trouble."

Both he and Cantave dislike speaking of the boat accident. They would not allow
a photographer to take their picture. They seem eager to leave that

sorrow behind. "If you're going to die, God called you, you have to go,"

Paradis said. "I don't blame nobody, black or white."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Guarding the Door: A Failing Immigration Policy / First of a Series

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W AND C) AND MAP (C)
 (1/B&W) 1981 file photo by JOHN J. LOPINOT/Staff Photographer HILLSBORO BEACH,
1981: Condominium residents in northern Broward County awoke 10 years ago to a
horrifying sight: The bodies of 33 Haitians, some naked, others in threadbare
clothes, were washing ashore. (2/C) C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer MIAMI, 1991:
Elda Cantave, wife of the Haitian boat skipper, and her children from a family
portrait. Cantave, who has remarried, hopes to reunite her family in Florida;
the four oldest children still live in Haiti. (3/B&W) 1981 file photo by JOHN J.
LOPINOT/Staff Photographer 1981: Joe Dente, right, a Hillsboro Beach patrolman,
was finishing the midnight shift when the first call came in: a group of
Haitians was walking up the quiet, still-dark beach. Hours later, he and a beach
lifeguard were still pulling bodies out of the surf. (4/C) LANNIS WATERS/Staff
Photographer 1991: Now a corporal, Dente and Sgt. Dan Hynes recall the horror.
`It was like the twilight zone or something,' Dente says. `Every time you
thought you had gotten a hold of something, the tide took the body back out,'
Hynes says. (5/C) LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer HE RUSHED TO HELP RESCUE: Joe
Ranieri, a Navy veteran, still lives at the Opal Towers in Hillsboro Beach. He
remembers the poor condition of the boat: wooden planks with cement wedged in
where the beams joined. `I couldn't believe the boat had made it this far. You
know people had to be very desperate to have climbed onto that boat to make the
trip.' Map by MARK HEMPHILL/Staff Artist

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 5, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUPREME COURT HEARS GUATEMALAN ASYLUM CASE

BYLINE: By CHARLES HOLMES, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On a January night in 1987 in Olintepeque, Guatemala, Jairo Jonathan Elias-
Zacarias faced two masked men carrying machine guns. They issued an ominous

invitation to join their guerrilla movement.

The teenager declined, not wishing to align himself against his

government. As the armed men left his home, they told Elias-Zacarias and his

family to "think it over well." They warned that they would be back.

Frightened that he would be killed by the guerrillas for his refusal to

join them, Elias-Zacarias left his country and was arrested by federal agents
two months later as he tried to illegally enter the United States near

Nogales, Ariz.

The Supreme Court was asked Monday to decide whether Elias-Zacarias, 19,

should be granted asylum on the grounds that the action by the guerrillas

constituted persecution because of his political opinions.

The Refugee Act of 1980 allows asylum to be granted only if an immigrant

can prove "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,

nationality, membership in a certain social group or political opinion."

The outcome of the case could affect thousands of immigration cases. More than
73,000 people applied for asylum in 1990.

Furthermore, the Bush administration warned in its court argument that

granting asylum to Elias-Zacarias could open refugee eligibility to millions

of draft-age people "in countries torn by domestic strife."

A Justice Department attorney, Maureen Mahoney, told the court Monday that
Elias-Zacarias has failed to adequately prove that the threat is politically

motivated.

At issue is whether Elias-Zacarias expressed his political opinion by

refusing to join the guerrillas, and whether there is a "well-founded fear"

that the guerrillas would seek retribution if he were returned to Guatemala.

"Because he would not join them demonstrated to them that because he is

not for them, he is against them," said James Robertson, an attorney

representing Elias-Zacarias. Robertson called it a "political act of

refusal."

U.S. immigration officials repeatedly denied Elias-Zacarias' application

for asylum, saying the guerrillas' threats were not motivated by his political
beliefs.

In 1990, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld Elias-Zacarias'

claim, reasoning that the forced recruitment was a politically motivated act

and that his refusal amounted to "a political opinion hostile to the

persecutor."

"Is there any indication in the record that they cared about his

political views at all?" Justice Antonin Scalia asked. "I have no reason to

believe that the guerrillas even cared about his political views. They just

wanted someone to shoot bullets alongside them."

COURT ACTION

In other matters Monday, the court:

* REFUSED to revive a lawsuit by the family of a Navy recruit from Wisconsin who
died in Pensacola during a training exercise in which his instructors

forced him back into the water after he panicked.

* TURNED down without comment the first constitutional challenge to the

military's death penalty in its present form.

* AGREED to consider a Georgia case that could bar criminal defendants from

using race as the basis for excluding potential jurors from their trials.

* STRIPPED from two prison inmates the privilege of filing appeals without

paying a $300 filing fee.

* REJECTED an appeal by senior-citizen groups aimed at forcing businesses

receiving federal aid to evaluate whether they are complying with a law

banning age discrimination.

* DECLINED to hear a constitutional challenge to city governments' power to

control privately owned housing so as to assure the homeless some places to

live.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 9, 1991 Saturday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

CIRCUS PERFORMERS' CITIZENSHIP QUEST BALANCES HOPE, PATIENCE

BYLINE: By CHUCK McGINNESS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 276 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Kristo and Nelly Ivanov enjoy the spotlight of performing on the circus

high wire.

But being left up in the air on their quest for U.S. citizenship leaves

the Bulgarian couple and their two sons a bit nervous.

The Ivanovs, who perform as the Kristos with the Clyde Beatty-Cole Bros. Circus,
announced last year when the big top came to Boca Raton that they were seeking
political asylum.

Little has changed as the circus returns to the Royal Palm Polo Grounds

for seven shows this weekend, the couple said. The U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service is still reviewing their case, Ivanov said.

"It's a long process, but you have to be positive," Kristo Ivanov said.

"We are very hopeful."

Ivanov has been in the circus 26 years. His wife was a member of the

Bulgarian Olympic gymnastics team and worked with him in the Dobritch Circus

Troupe before the couple married in 1970 and formed their own act.

Their oldest son, Kris, 19, rides a motorcycle on a cable 45 feet above

the ground. Eleven-year-old George is still learning the ropes.

Trying to explain the delay, Ivanov believes INS officials may be

influenced by reports that the old guard Communists have been ousted from

power in Bulgaria. But democratic reforms are slow in coming and the Socialist
Party is still strong, he said.

The Ivanovs have bought a 3-acre lot in Venice, on the Gulf Coast, where they
want to build a home. Plans hinge on INS approval of their application

for citizenship, which they hope will come in a couple of months.

Kristo Ivanov said he has not returned to his homeland but is looking

forward to the day when he can visit.

"I'd like to go back as an American, not a Bulgarian," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 23, 1991 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SOUTH FLORIDIANS AMONG VISA LOTTERY WINNERS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Several South Floridians are among a lucky batch of winners in October's

visa lottery for immigrants seeking permanent residency in the United States.
"About 20 of our clients have gotten letters," Boca Raton immigration

attorney Michael Weiss said. "We devised a strategy, and it seems to be

paying off."

At the Irish Times, an Irish pub and restaurant in Palm Beach Gardens,

manager Hillary O'Leary said she has heard of three people who were notified

that they can apply for permanent residency.

The U.S. State Department received about 19 million entries in the lottery that
was open to residents of nations with low numbers of immigrants in recent years.
Of 40,000 visas that will be handed out under this year's lottery,

16,000 are set aside for Irish citizens.

About half of the lottery winners have been notified, said Nyda

Novodvorsky, a spokesman for the State Department's consular affairs division.
"We expect to be finished by the end of the year," she said.

Winners receive application packets in the mail. To apply for a green

card, the applicant must submit identity documents, an offer of employment in
the United States and a $25 processing fee.

Novodvorsky said the State Department is sending out 50,000 applicants and will
accept the first 40,000 that arrive and are determined eligible.

"It's not a guarantee until you finish all of the paper work and get

approved," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 24, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DENYING HAITIANS ASYLUM IS IMMORAL

BYLINE: By CONNIE MACK

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 773 words


When about 300 Haitian refugees were being forcibly returned to Haiti

aboard a Coast Guard cutter Tuesday, three Cubans were found on a raft off the
Florida Keys and taken safely to America's shore. In all likelihood, they will
be allowed to stay here as political refugees, as they should be.

This incident is a reminder of the immoral double standard in the

government's immigration policy, which has ignored the universal principle of
freedom.

Hearings begin this week in federal court in Miami on whether the U.S.

government can intercept and return Haitian refugees who are fleeing their

torn country by boat. Many Haitians lost all hope that their lives would

improve and freedom would finally be theirs when an illegal military coup

toppled the young democracy under President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept.

30.

For the past three weeks, about 3,000 Haitian refugees have been held on

Coast Guard cutters and at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba while the U.S.

government considered a Haitian refugee policy.

On Monday, the government announced it would return Haitian boat people to the
hands of the military dictatorship. More than 500 refugees were delivered to
Haiti before a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order, pending
hearings.

The policy is one of selective freedom that singles out Haitians among

immigrant groups as unacceptable refugees. Many Haitian refugees were never

given a fair opportunity to plead their case for political asylum in the

United States.

Our government has ignored the dangers of political persecution that these
refugees may face if returned to an island where poverty and military violence
have led Haitians to brave shark-infested waters for a chance at freedom.

Freedom by its very nature, and for the sake of its preservation, must be
afforded to everyone and not applied selectively. This concept of freedom is

the driving force behind the greatness of our country.

The U.S.-- as the beacon of freedom for more than two centuries-- has now, with

the Haitians, selectively excluded one group of immigrants by its immigration
rules. That's not what freedom is all about. That's not the principle that

others who look to the U.S. with hope have sought to emulate.

Returning Vietnamese, Soviet Jews or Cubans to their repressive nations

would be unthinkable. But, for Haitians, it's a justifiable policy? The only

moral response is one of outrage.

The U.S. recently criticized the British government for forcibly

repatriating Vietnamese refugees who had sought safe haven from repression in
Hong Kong. Now, our government has taken the same position with Haitians, and
it's wrong.

The federal government once condemned the illegal military overthrow of

Haiti's democracy but now says Haitians being returned to the island should

not fear persecution. That's absurd.

Widespread reports from the island have detailed violence from the ruling
military, which, for instance, recently stormed a pro-Aristide university

gathering with machine guns, killing some protesters. This is the environment to
which our government wants to return Haitians.

When Fidel Castro commits this type of violence, the Free World looks at

Cubans, and rightly so, as justified political refugees. But when the Haitian
military commits violence against its people, the world is silent and believes
Haitians fleeing the country should not be given protection. That's wrong.

South Florida has a unique sensitivity to the impact of immigrants. The

concern is a serious one that Haitians will seek refuge in the U.S. in

increasing numbers if we begin admitting more into the country. But the so-

called magnet effect is no justification for a discriminatory immigration

policy.

The responsibility to those fleeing repression must not be Florida's

alone, it must be shared. Ultimately, it is a federal responsibility, and we

deserve sufficient support from Washington to help pay for it.

But to deny one class of immigrants freedom in the U.S. contradicts the

foundation of freedom that made this nation great.

The ultimate solution to the Haitian crisis is to rally free nations to

help restore democracy and give the Haitian people hope in their own country. In
the meantime, we have an obligation to treat Haitians fleeing to the

U.S. in a humane manner.

If we truly believe that freedom is the core of all human progress for all
peoples, the only moral response to the treatment of Haitian boat people must be
one of compassion. The only moral response to our current policy of sending the
boat people back to certain persecution, however, must be one of outrage. Connie
Mack is Florida's Republican junior senator. He wrote this article for The Palm
Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(AP & MUG/MACK, CONNIE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 10, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WEST PALM BRITONS PASS FIRST HURDLE IN `VISA LOTTERY'

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A British couple, Mark and Pam, say their lives were filled with stress and
suspicion after their temporary immigrant visas expired a year ago.

Pam imagined that a car filled with immigration agents was trailing her.

Mark worried that his employers would have to pay huge fines if he was caught
working without a work permit.

The fear subsided two weeks ago when a large white envelope arrived at

their West Palm Beach apartment.

They are among the 50,000 successful applicants in the U.S. State

Department "visa lottery." The government received nearly 19 million

applications for the Oct. 24 lottery from foreigners seeking a green card and
permanent residency in the United States.

Mark, 30, and Pam, 28, asked that their last name be withheld. Only 40,000 green
cards will be granted, and they might not make the second cut. State

Department officials said they expect many of the 10,000 losers will be

eliminated because they failed to file the application or will be declared

ineligible.

"When we opened the letter, we felt like we were home free," Mark said.

"Then we read the fine print. We are excited but very anxious about what

will happen."

Mark returned the application to the State Department within two days.

The first 40,000 to submit completed applications will be scheduled for visa

interviews.

The State Department said 20,000 applications were sent to Irish

applicants, 12,060 to Poles, 6,413 to Japanese, 3,054 to Britons and 2,947 to
Indonesians.

The couple, from Leicester, England, came to the United States four years ago on
a business visa that expired a year ago.

When the visa lottery program came up in October, the couple sought

assistance from the Emerald Isle Immigration Center in Broward County. Mark

and Pam sent 50 letters each to the State Department, using the immigration

center as a courier.

Dennis McAllister, director of the non-profit center, said the Margate-

based center submitted 37,000 entries for 250 clients. He said 43 people,

mostly Irish and English, have notified the center that they had received an

application letter.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 22, 1991 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FEW IMMIGRANTS SIGN UP FOR `MILLIONAIRE VISAS'

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


"Millionaire visas" went on the market this month, offering American

citizenship to big-time investors. But officials discovered that among the

rich, there are not many takers.

After months of preparation and publicity, the government has issued its

regulations for the special visas, which offer permanent residency to

foreigners who invest $1 million or more in a business that employs at least

10 people.

After almost three weeks, only 177 potential investors, far fewer than the
government expected, have applied for the 10,000 visas, the first step toward
citizenship.

This hesitancy by foreign millionaires contrasts with the avalanche of

nearly 19 million applications that the government received two months ago in a
first-come, first-served lottery that offered 40,000 visas to people from 34
selected nations.

Immigration lawyers say a host of fine points contribute to the reticence of
rich foreigners, who can easily find other ways to stay in the United

States.

Critics of the visa say the nation is abandoning its historic ideals of

immigration, which have traditionally held open America's doors to the tired,
poor and oppressed. They say that for the first time, sheer wealth is a

criterion for citizenship.

But the visas are drawing praise from others who say that at last America is
putting its national interests ahead of sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 30, 1991 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DON'T EQUATE `NOT GUILTY' WITH INNOCENCE OF SMITH

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1004 words


Thank goodness some people are still able to see past the gamesmanship of

defense attorneys such as Roy Black and company; judges such as Mary Lupo, who
fawn over a defendant's family; groupies who cheer for an accused rapist. The
letters in your paper, and people we have talked to, prove that many people

understand how tainted our judicial system can be.

Our family will forever be indebted to Moira Lasch. Her dedication and

expertise kept one of my daughter's rapists in jail. We also were thankful

that her cases were heard before judges who did their job with no prejudice

shown for either side and who did not give Academy Award speeches at the end

of the trial even though there were cameras in the courtroom.

Thank goodness some people are not so star-struck and realize as we did

that a verdict of not guilty should by no means be equated with innocence.

Michelle G. Meadows

Palm Beach Gardens

Editor's note: Michelle G. Meadows is the mother of Lauren Cox, a 1987

gang-rape victim.

IMMIGRATION LAWS MADE FOR A REASON

Once again your editorial page is bashing the Bush administration without reason
or logic ("Haitians' rights derailed").

There are definite immigration laws in this country, and if they are not

enforced we will be flooded with immigrants claiming political asylum. For

every Haitian refugee there are a dozen Mexicans, Central Americans and other
so-called political refugees who would do anything to get into the United

States. We cannot permit our laws to be ignored to admit them.

The Coast Guard has done a magnificent job in rescuing the thousands of

Haitians from the sea. They should be returned to their homeland, not fed and
housed in Guantanamo, Cuba.

James A. Woodruff Jr.

Delray Beach

AN ISSUE OF ECONOMICS, NOT RACE

Regarding your numerous and sympathetic articles about the plight of the

Haitians: Sen. Connie Mack, for whom I voted, Jesse Jackson and The Palm Beach
Post want us to take all the refugees into our society. I'm sorry. We have to
stop somewhere.

This is not an issue of race; it is an issue of economics.

I'd like to know who is going to foot the bill for these people. I don't

want to, and I can't afford to. I have my own family to care for.

David H. Miller

Lake Worth

BUCHANAN'S HOLLERING HAS A POINT

President Bush has denounced the ideology of "America first" as set

forth by Republican presidential hopeful Pat Buchanan.

I say, what's wrong with "America first"? President Bush is doing little

to face the problems-- social, economic, cultural, racial-- that are causing

so much woe. Mr. Buchanan has a good basis for sound polemics when he hollers
against the foreign policy of Mr. Bush and points to the need of confronting

the problems plaguing people. And they are getting worse. People are tired of
promises about no more taxes. They are tired of being hoodwinked. Mr. Buchanan
has a point, and it would behoove us all, especially President Bush, to heed

his GOP opponent well.

Ernest R. Barra

Stuart

THAT'S NOT A NEW HIGH SCHOOL?

It's nice to see that the new Forest Hill High School is nearly completed. I'll
bet the students and teachers are excited about moving into a modern,

less-crowded facility. What? You mean that multimillion-dollar facility is not a
new high school? I thought the old Forest Hill High School was going to be

the new School Board administration building. You say they looked at the old

school and said it was substandard office space? Well, I guess it just

reflects the priority of the School Board: Administration first and the

students and teachers last.

Bruce Nelsen

West Palm Beach

JUPITER THEATRE KUDOS RIGHT ON TARGET

Thanks for your wonderful article on Richard Akins and the Jupiter

Theatre.

We are season subscribers and always look forward to our night at the

theater. The shows are good, as is the food. In addition, the staff is warm

and friendly, from the box office on up to Mr. Akins.

A number of times we've caught up with Mr. Akins in the lobby. He is

always an eager listener, appearing truly interested in the opinion of his

patrons.

The Jupiter Theatre should be filled every night. Your article was right

on track. For dining and entertainment, it is quite a find, and for anyone

familiar with Broadway prices, it is a bargain.

Ann Brody

Palm Beach Gardens

CHILDREN LEARNING THREE W'S OF SEX

The newspapers and television are oozing with sex, rape, etc. Condoms are being
given out to kids at schools. Once sex education was enough. Now they

have the three W's: When, where and with whom.

Anne Chernay

Delray Beach

IT'S STRANGE WHAT SOME DOCTORS THINK

The recent rape trial sent some unfortunate messages-- and questions:

William Kennedy Smith would have us believe it's OK to have unprotected sex

with someone you've known only a few hours. And he's a doctor?

Eleanor S. Slaton

Boynton Beach

LEGISLATORS DISGUISE A HUGE PAY RAISE

There seems to be a plan afoot to abolish the 11 regional planning

councils that ride herd on one of the state's major problems-- growth

management.

The politicians say this would save the taxpayers an estimated $39

million. This, after state legislators voted themselves a 57 percent increase in
what they can collect for in-state travel.

The strategy appears to have been: "If you can't get an increase in your

paycheck, find a way to increase your fringe benefits." That way it doesn't

look like a pay raise to the folks back home, but the effect is the same.

Parents are expected to tell their school-age children, and school

superintendents are expected to tell their teachers, that they will have to do
more with less this year. Meanwhile, our state legislators will be quietly

lining their own pockets with a huge increase in their travel allowance.

Dr. William H. Lane

Port St. Lucie

`THIEVES CARNIVAL' AN ENJOYABLE PLAY

Don't walk, run to the Odyssey Theater production of Thieves Carnival at the
Jewish Community Center.

This broadly executed play is funny and witty. The costumes and sets are

beautiful. It takes courage, foresight and creativity to give audiences

something different.

I'm looking forward to the next production.

Marilyn Arenson

West Palm Beach\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 1, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS LETS IN 1,658 HAITIANS;
U.S. WILL ALLOW CLAIMS FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 374 words


Nearly 1,700 of the Haitian refugees at Guantanamo, Cuba, will be allowed

to enter the United States to pursue their claim for political asylum, the

Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday.

"We interviewed 7,511 (of the refugees) and 1,658 were found to have

plausible claims for asylum," said David Austin, an INS spokesman. More than

300 of them, he said, already have been brought to Miami for processing.

But while the fate of another 5,000 refugees -- who the INS said did not

have plausible claims for asylum-- hinges on a Jan. 22 hearing before the 11th
Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, a new stream is swelling their ranks at

the tent city at the U.S. naval base.

Since Christmas, the Coast Guard has stopped at least five boats carrying about
600 Haitians headed for Florida. The refugees are being detained at

Guantanamo. But Hosny Rony, a refugee who said he used to work for the

government of ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, said Saturday

the soldier-patrolled camp is not where the Haitians want to be.

Rony complained that for two days there was not enough water to take a

shower. "Just enough to wet ourselves," he said. "Once in a while we

receive some soap. They make us pick up garbage. They treat us like animals.

They don't tell us what's going on. We don't know how long we're going to be

here."

But the Haitians seem prepared to endure any hardship to stay out of their
country.

An 18-year-old woman, who had been on the deck of a Coast Guard cutter

waiting for three days with 86 others to go through INS and other processing,
said, "I would rather die than go back to Haiti."

The refugees, mostly young men, are housed in about 700 tents. Families,

single men and women are segregated. Among them are about 400 children and 60
pregnant women.

There are 275 portable toilets that military officials said are cleaned

every day, and showers that accommodate 40 people. Water is trucked in, and a
110-bed hospital takes care of their medical needs, officials said.

At one end of the camp, women washed clothes in cardboard boxes lined with
plastic. Some fashioned makeshift aprons from clear plastic to help run a

kitchen.

The conditions are basic and no different for some soldiers at the base,

military officials said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 2, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RELIGIOUS DELEGATION VISITS HAITIANS IN CUBA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A delegation of religious leaders who visited Haitians at the U.S. naval

base in Cuba reported complaints from the detainees about the immigration

screening process, a Haitian leader said Wednesday.

The group returned late Tuesday from their daylong trip to Guantanamo Bay aboard
a U.S. Coast Guard cargo plane. They took donations of clothing, food

and toys to the more than 6,000 Haitians living there in tents.

They also heard various concerns by the would-be refugees, including

complaints about the interviews by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service, said Rolande Dorancy, director of the Haitian Refugee Center here.

"A serious lack of proper legal representation and bona fide creole-

speaking interpreters appears to be grossly inhibiting just processing to

determine the true status of the refugees," Dorancy said in a statement.

But Duke Austin, an INS spokesman in Washington, said the interviews

always include interpreters and aren't court hearings that would require legal
representation.

"This is a pre-screening by the INS to determine if they have plausible

claims for asylum," Austin said Wednesday.

He added that the INS has found that possibly 1,600 of the more than 7,500
Haitians interviewed in the past several months may have legitimate claims for
political asylum.

Austin also referred to the lawsuit brought against the U.S. government by
lawyers for the refugee center. They argue that the detainees face political

persecution in their homeland and shouldn't be returned until they have a

chance to talk to their attorneys.

"The issue that they're making is the one they're making in the courts,"

Austin said.

The Bush administration claims that most of the 8,200 Haitians picked up

by the Coast Guard since October are economic refugees and should be

repatriated.

"The United States has no intention of returning anybody who will be

persecuted," Austin said.

The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta has set a Jan. 22

hearing in the case.

The group that visited Cuba was sponsored by The Washington Office on

Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 10, 1992 Friday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

20 HAITIANS SEEKING ASYLUM WAIT IN DELRAY

BYLINE: By CHUCK McGINNESS, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


Kesner Normil was sure he would die if he remained in Haiti.

Normil, a carpenter, was involved in a personal feud with a military

policeman but felt safe while President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was in power.

"After the coup, the guy wanted to kill me," Normil, 26, said Thursday,

recalling how he left behind his father and eight brothers and sisters and

fled to the United States. "I'm afraid that guy is going to hurt them."

Normil is one of about 400 Haitian refugees who have been allowed to come to the
United States from a temporary tent city at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,

because they have "plausible claims" for political asylum, Immigration and

Naturalization Service officials said.

More than 7,500 Haitians have been held at the U.S. base there for more

than a month to stop the tide of refugees coming by boat or raft to seek

asylum in the United States.

About 20 arrived in the Delray Beach area this week to stay with

relatives while they await word on their fate.

"We won't have the number the city is talking about," said the Rev.

Roland Desormeaux of Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church.

Last month, Delray Beach officials asked the federal government to give

it money to handle the influx or devise a plan for dispersing refugees if the
federal government allows Haitians to immigrate.

Local Haitian leaders criticized city officials, saying only 150 would

come to Delray Beach if all of those being held at Guantanamo Bay were allowed
into the country.

Normil said he helped repair a 32-foot rickety sailboat before it set

sail in late November with 247 persons. They were at sea about a day before a
Coast Guard cutter cut them off.

Conditions in the tent city were miserable, Normil said. He said he slept
outside on the ground and waited five days to take a shower.

"It feels better here because I didn't have good treatment there. I'm

trying to forget everything," he said. "I need to work and make a living."

Officials at the Haitian-American Chamber of Commerce are helping the

refugees fill out forms to receive federal aid. Refugees can receive up to

$167 a month for eight months.

David Corvil, a 33-year-old farmworker, fled after being imprisoned for

six days without food because he refused to take down Aristide's picture in

his home. He led the campaign for the deposed president in his hometown of

Gonaives and knew it was only a matter of time before he was punished.

"I was afraid I would be arrested again and killed," said Corvil, who

left his wife and four children.

His sister, Alta Grace Corvil, 23, left her husband and 4-year-old child behind.
She finally got word back to her husband earlier this week that she

was safe.

The brother and sister spent two days at sea and watched four people die before
the other 200 on their boat were rescued and taken to the U.S. base in Cuba.

David Corvil said he accepted the poor living conditions at the naval

base because he knew he would be there only a short time. He feels the day

will come when Aristide returns to power and he can return to his homeland.

"That's what all Haitians are hoping for," Desormeaux said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(C)
 ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer David Corvil (left); his sister, Alta Grace
Corvil; and Kesner Normil say they fled Haiti because they believed they would
be killed by military police after the coup.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 20, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEFECTOR' LABEL FOR CUBANS IS PROPER CHOICE OF TERMS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1071 words


I am writing in response to Charles Bond's Listening Post article "Unstick

Cuban `defector' label." He states that newspapers shouldn't help perpetuate

government's double standard in calling the Cubans "defectors" and the

Haitians "illegal immigrants."

The U.S. government is correct labeling Cubans "defectors" because the

Cubans are defecting from a system that denies free destiny of men. The

Haitians are fleeing Haiti because of economic deprivation.

Mr. Bond states that Rene Arocha left his family in Cuba because he wanted to
play major-league baseball. Mr. Bond asks "What did that have to do with

communism?"-- which demonstrates lack of knowledge of the communist system.

Since there are no professional players in Cuba, Mr. Arocha left to develop

his career.

The Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 allows Cuban defectors to receive

political asylum. After one year, the Cuban defector is given the option of

becoming a permanent resident. If Mr. Bond feels that immigration policies

toward the Haitian refugees are unjust, he should lobby Congress to pass a

Haitian Adjustment Act.

Cristobal F. Oviedo

Hispanic Advisory Board

West Palm Beach

BASH CARMAKERS' SALARIES, NOT JAPAN

What a charade! The picture of the Big Three auto executives (with salaries of
up to $4 million each) bashing Japanese auto executives (who make up to

$300,000 each) was emblematic of one of our economy's basic problems.

How can these million-dollar salaries possibly be justified when the

companies these executives head are losing billions of dollars and laying off
thousands of employees?

Louis P. Sigel, Jr.

Palm City

DON'T KEEP BASHING U.S. PRODUCTS

Shame, shame. Your publication of Don Wright's cartoon debasing the

quality of American cars is not only incorrect but blatantly unpatriotic.

Numerous automobile analysts say our cars are now on par with Japanese cars.

What must be done is to promote purchase of products "made in America."

Those who would follow what your ill-advised cartoon portrays not only affect
car manufacturers but their suppliers of such products as steel, electronics,
rubber, fabrics, paint, etc. Continuation of America-bashing can also affect

you. Let's rebuild America, not destroy it.

Ed Mayer

Boynton Beach

LET PARENTS CHOOSE KIDS' SCHOOLS

Florida's system of public education must undergo major improvement if we are to
properly educate our young people.

Many parents and other residents of Florida back a reform proposal that we
believe will turn our education system around. We have joined together as

Floridians for Florida Choice to try to change state laws to allow parents

-- not the government-- to choose their child's school. We believe parents

should also have the right to select an independent school, with the tax

dollars following the child to the school of choice.

At least four school choice bills will be considered by our legislators

during this session. People who care about better education in Florida, along
with a better return on their tax dollar, need to learn more about this issue.
If they like what they discover, they should let their representatives and

senators know.

Sherry Plymale

Palm City

LOVE AND FORGIVENESS, OR BITTERNESS?

My best friend, Bill Whittenburg, age 31, died of AIDS one week before

Kimberly Bergalis. Bill always dealt with his circumstances with grace and

dignity. He never pointed a finger in blame.

I see in a Palm Beach Post article that Ms. Bergalis' mother still

promotes mandatory HIV testing of health care workers. Does she mean the same
health care workers who daily risked exposure to the human immunodeficiency

virus while caring for Kimberly during her illness?

Bill died without a front-page write-up, and he did not leave anyone a

Porsche. All he left was a shining example of the power of love and

forgiveness.

Kimberly Bergalis is only one of thousands of innocent victims of acquired
immune deficiency syndrome, and I'm not so sure her example of bitterness and
revenge is the one worth constant media attention. Let's hear more about the

others.

D. Scott Humphries

Palm Springs

DON'T WRITE OFF REAGAN'S TENURE

You can thank Ronald Reagan for the fall of the Berlin Wall, the failure

of communism and the dissolution of the Soviet Union. He put our rust buckets in
top-flight condition, went head-to-head with Mikhail Gorbachev and company and
without firing a shot sent them into bankruptcy.

We proved our mettle and showed that bullets can indeed shoot down

bullets. Don't write him off. We could not have done a thing about Kuwait with
the military President Bush inherited. It is first-rate now. If it had not

been for Kuwait we would not have known our capability, or the true picture of
Iraq's capability.

B.F. McKenzie

Palm Beach Gardens

BUSH'S BEGGING EMBARRASSES U.S.

Regarding the presidential trip-- how embarrassing, and only a few weeks

after the 50th anniversary of Pearl Harbor. The sight of President Bush, hat

in hand, begging our former enemy to please, please buy from the United States
so we can get out of the hole that we've gotten into is embarrassing and

humiliating.

The solution is not in Japan-- the solution, and the problem, is right

here: the proliferation of credit cards, the reckless so-called defense

spending, the lack of savings by people and the constant yearly deficits.

W.G. Alonso

North Palm Beach

IS BERKELEY REALLY CORRECT, OR WIMPY?

Re Berkeley, Calif., dumping Columbus Day in favor of "Indigenous Peoples Day":

Is Berkeley a politically correct city or simply Wimpsville? We non-

indigenous people will expect a day and year for ourselves.

Gloria L. Bosworth

West Palm Beach

CIRCUSES BREAK SPIRITS OF ANIMALS

I was delighted to read most of Frank Cerabino's column on animal rights

activists clashing with circus patrons. It has always been difficult for me to
grasp why some find the mistreatment of animals amusing or funny.

In circuses, animals are forced to go against their own instincts to give us
something we call entertainment. While spectators are in awe at the

demonstrated power of man over beast and people thrill at watching them jump

through hoops of fire, the spirit of these magnificent animals has been broken
forever.

Mr. Cerabino, I hope you decide against taking your kids to the circus. I won't
be taking mine. I want to use this instance in an effort to model decent
behavior for my daughter. In the words of Mahatma Gandhi, "The greatness of a
nation and its moral progress can be measured by the way its animals are

treated."

Susanna M. Walker

West Palm Beach\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 24, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS ARRESTS 18 IMMIGRANTS IN GLADES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents picked up 18 immigrants

in the Belle Glade and Clewiston area Wednesday for deportation.

INS District Director Richard Smith said the immigrants were arrested

because they had been convicted of felonies and, whether or not they had valid
visas, they were subject to deportation.

The arrests were made by Belle Glade and Clewiston police departments and

the county probation office in Belle Glade. The officers and agents picked up 10
people living in Belle Glade and eight living in Clewiston.

Smith said the suspects had been convicted of crimes including narcotics

trafficking and firearms violations.

Smith said they would be sent within a week to INS facilities in Louisiana

or Texas, for hearings to determine whether they will remain in the United

States or be deported.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 2, 1992 Sunday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

150 ON WAY TO HAITI;
BOAT PEOPLE LOADED ON SHIP

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 841 words


As protesters took to the streets of Miami's Little Haiti, the United

States on Saturday loaded a ship with 150 Haitian boat people to be sent back to
their strife-torn homeland from the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay,

Cuba.

The boat people say they fear being killed by the ruling military

government that ousted the impoverished nation's first freely elected

president in a bloody September coup. But the State Department insists the

fears are unfounded.

A Coast Guard cutter was loaded late Saturday with the first refugees

selected to return to the capital of Port-au-Prince from Guantanamo, where

more than 10,440 have been held in a makeshift tent city erected Nov. 26.

Another 1,500 boat people are being housed aboard Coast Guard cutters

offshore.

The 150 may arrive as early as this morning.

The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday night lifted a ban on repatriation at the
request of the State Department, which said the thousands who have fled in

rickety boats were arriving in numbers too great to manage.

The State Department insists the Haitians are fleeing poverty, not

political repression, which is required for asylum.

A spokesman for the U.S. interdiction effort at Guantanamo, U.S. Air Force Lt.
Darian Benson, said the Haitians sent back were among those who were found to
have insufficient evidence to bolster their asylum requests.

The State Department says U.S. immigration officials have determined that about
5,500 of the refugees are not eligible for asylum.

Benson said more refugees will be sent back today but provided no

details.

"We've had complaining, but there's a difference between complaining and

problems," he said. "It's what the Department of Defense said we had to do,

so we're doing it."

International human rights groups say as many as 1,500 Haitians have been killed
in military violence since the Sept. 30 coup and that the lives of

Haitian supporters of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide could be in

danger.

Members of the Delray Beach Haitian community have no plans to protest

the Supreme Court ruling, said Jahn Francis, president of the Our Lady of

Perpetual Help Church Council.

"A march is out of the question right now," Francis said, adding that

community members will watch closely to determine whether and when any action is
needed.

"If America really wants to stop the influx of Haitians," Francis said,

"the government should return President Aristide to restore the

government."

Reaction was swift in Little Haiti, home to many Aristide supporters, some with
relatives in Guantanamo.

Protesters began to stream to the Haitian Refugee Center carrying signs

saying "Justice for black People," "Fight Racism" and "If you Don't Want

Us, Let Haiti Be Free."

"A few days (ago) the U.S. government recalled its own ambassador to

protest against the criminal de facto government," said center executive

director Rolande Dorancy, referring to last week's departure of Alvin Adams

after a police attack on a political meeting that left one person dead.

"Today they are sending the Haitians to death," she said. "It's clear

to us that the U.S. government doesn't want blacks in this country."

There was a candlelight march and a Mass for the boat people at the

Catholic Notre Dame d'Haiti Church, the largest Haitian parish in the United

States.

Father Thomas Wensky, the parish priest, compared the repatriation to the
refusal to grant asylum to a boatload of Jews that anchored briefly off Miami
Beach after fleeing Nazi persecution in World War II. They eventually returned
to Europe, and many of them died in the Holocaust.

"This is crazy," he said. "It begs the question of what are you going

to do with the illegal, repressive, murderous government that's in place

now."

A political solution to Haiti's problems no longer seems possible, at

least in the short term, officials in the administration and the Organization of
American States appear to agree.

In the first comprehensive human rights report since the September coup,

Amnesty International said in January that Haitians are living in "a climate

of fear and repression."

"Hundreds of people have been extrajudicially executed or detained

without warrant and tortured," the report said. "Many others have been

brutally beaten in the streets. Freedom of the press has been severely

curtailed, and property is being destroyed by members of the military or the

police."

An economic embargo imposed by the United States and other OAS members has added
to the problems.

The embargo was intended to cripple or at least inconvenience the

government in the hope that it would be more amenable to negotiating an end to
the crisis.

But many Haitians say the embargo has struck ordinary citizens the

hardest, prompting the exodus.

While the Supreme Court permitted the United States to begin deportations, it
did not decide the repatriation issue on its merits. If the issue is

appealed, it would not be decided before next year.

The last forced repatriation of Haitians took place Nov. 18 and 19, when

538 were returned.

Staff writer Ernestine Williams and the New York Times news service

contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran MSL and Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 4, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SCREENING OF REFUGEES `A GAME,' ACTIVIST SAYS

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 236 words


Joseph Seraphin was among the lucky ones.

The young Haitian student was allowed into the United States after

persuading U.S. immigration officers that the military knew he was a strong

supporter of ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide and could be killed if he
returned to the island nation.

Cemeride Desir, 36, a fisherman, was sent back to Haiti on Sunday from a

tent city at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base because he could not persuade

immigration officials that he would be singled out for persecution if he

returned.

Now that forced repatriation to Haiti is a reality for those who fail to

meet the test, the process itself has come under renewed attack by refugee

advocates, who insist that no one should be returned to Haiti until the

situation there is stable.

There is a fine line, refugee advocates say-- if there is a line at all

-- between Seraphin, the political refugee, and Desir, the economic refugee.

"What's political and what's economic? The situation in Haiti is

completely out of control, so how does the United States government decide who
is in danger and who is not?" said Rolande Dorancy, executive director of the
Haitian Refugee Center in Miami. "It is a game they are playing. But it is

game where people can lose their lives."

U.S. officials insist that the screening process effectively filters out

anyone likely to be in danger if returned. They insist there have been no

reprisals against those sent back.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 10, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SPEAKER: SOVIET JEWS' TIMES TOUGHEN

BYLINE: By GILLIAN HAGGERTY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


With another 1 million Soviet Jews expected to immigrate to Israel, the

majority of Jews will eventually live in that country, a Soviet Jewish

advocate said Sunday.

But Natan Sharansky-- a "refusenik" who was imprisoned for treason for

nine years in the former Soviet Union before immigrating to Israel-- warned

that a tough period of assimilation is ahead.

"It started as a very happy honeymoon," Sharansky said of the first

groups of Soviet Jews who immigrated to Israel. "It was a moment of mutual

love and enthusiasm.

"But we are not at this moment anymore. Now the real marriage starts,"

Sharansky said in his address at Brandeis University's annual Palm Beach

brunch at the Ocean Grand Hotel.

Sharansky said many adjustments will need to be made to accommodate the

Soviet Jews, 61 percent of whom are professionals.

Cultural centers are helping to teach customs and language.

But opportunities for professionals to contribute their ideas and

expertise must be created, he said.

Sharansky said he disagrees with some Israelis' paternalistic attitude

toward the Soviet Jews.

"We're the cream of the intellectual society of our (former) country,"

he said.

About 9,000 Soviet Jewish doctors have joined about 14,000 Israeli doctors in
the past two years, he said.

Sharansky said placing such professionals creates "tremendous problems,

but unique opportunities."

He suggested that some could ease the tremendous need for doctors in

developing countries. He also suggested that more Soviet Jews start their own
businesses.

Brandeis, a Jewish-sponsored university in Massachusetts, will host

Sharansky as a visiting professor in the fall.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/SHARANSKY, NATAN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 26, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DESPITE OUR POLICY, HAITIANS THE SAME AS OTHER IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By KETLY BLAISE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 690 words


I recently attended a gathering of people who have made a definite impact

on my life. Perhaps they will make one on yours.

There was Michelle, who graduated from Stanford University in three years,
including an internship at Oxford University. She has just entered Columbia

University and has formed her own video production company.

There was Richard, working now toward an M.B.A.. Previously an executive

with AT&T, he already holds a degree in computer technology.

There was Abner, a former NBC art director who creates promotions for ABC as a
free-lance designer.

There was Joanne, an office manager who doubles as a professional

translator. She speaks three other languages besides English.

And, there were others; Renee is a registered nurse; Willem is the manager of
human resources for a division of American Express; Velyne, the mother of

three young children, works with the disadvantaged.

I am proud to say they are all my cousins. But without question, I'm most proud
of our parents-- our immigrant parents who came to the United States in the
1950s-- black, French and Creole-speaking people assimilating into a

society that neither wanted nor embraced them.

Little has changed since that time. Our parents came from Haiti, the same Haiti
that is painted so negatively to the American people.

I'd like to give Haiti and its people a different face.

Our parents were not refugees. They were a group looking for advancement

and better opportunities for future generations. They were well-educated. When
they came to theUnited States, they were judged by their skin color rather

than by their aptitude and character. They faced discrimination as cruel and

apparent as what the Haitians coming here today face.

Haitians are a people who have a rich history of independence, a strong

work ethic and determination. But for the cruel twists of fate in which

demagogic leaders have imperiled their island by robbing it of its cultural

richness and economic stability, there would be little reason for any Haitian to
leave what used to be a virtual paradise.

But leave they did.

In spite of all they faced, these people, our parents, instilled in us a

sense of unparalleled dignity. I remember them telling me that we were

different because of our ancestry, that we had to appreciate and cultivate

everything this country had to offer. I was never taught to feel inferior.

And although our parents had reason to resent the treatment they received here,
they never instilled in us any hatred. We knew to treat people with

respect and to stand up for what we believe in.

These same Haitians who raised us to be productive members of this

society, are cut from the same cloth of those Haitians who are now callously

being sent back to a country where the present state of political conflict and
turmoil can at least in part be blamed on the U.S.

The 40-year sojourn of my family to this country has been an admirable

one. And my family is only one small example. There are thousands of Haitian

families just like ours. It touches me that my mother, now an American

citizen, works at voting sites for local and national elections. What a

statement that makes. Haitians will always love their homeland, but they are

proud to be viable members of this country.

I am not unaware of the economic impact immigrants have on South Florida. Nor am
I a bleeding heart who does not recognize that we can barely take care of our
own let alone others who come here.

But I do believe in fairness. This double standard of welcoming all other groups
to our shores but treating Haitians like animals is wrong. Are the

dollars spent to support other refugees any different than those that would be
spent on black Haitian immigrants?

My parents were not "boat people" risking their lives on treacherous

seas. But they came here to make the best of what this country had to offer.

They gave us the best of both worlds with much love and sacrifice. It's really
no different than what most parents, be they American, Hispanic, Polish or

Russian, want for their children.

Let's allow some rational thought and disavow misplaced bigotry. Some of

the best of this country have come from other shores. They still can.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LOCAL FORUM / Ketley Blaise, a West Palm Beach resident, is the owner of
a translation service in West Palm Beach. She wrote this article for The Palm
Beach Post.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/BLAISE, KETLEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 4, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHILES WRITES TO BUSH ABOUT IMMIGRATION CRISIS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Gov. Lawton Chiles wrote President Bush on the eve of the president's

Florida trip complaining about the federal government's failure to finish a

plan to deal with immigration emergencies.

"As you will note during your visit, state resources are already

stretched well beyond their limits," the Democratic governor wrote the

Republican president, who was scheduled to visit Miami today and Thursday.

Chiles said Tuesday that recent events in Haiti and Cuba dramatize how

vulnerable Florida is to immigration emergencies and the importance of having a
plan to deal with them.

Two years after the 1980 Mariel boat lift, which brought 125,000 Cubans to South
Florida, the federal government drafted a Mass Immigration Emergency

Plan, but it was never finished.

Federal, state and local officials met in Key West last May to talk about the
plan. A Tallahassee meeting scheduled for last July was canceled.

Chiles wrote that he has been unable to get federal officials to

reschedule the meeting despite repeated attempts.

"Mr. President, our patience has run out," he said, pointing out it has

been more than eight months since the last meeting.

"The door has repeatedly been slammed shut on the state of Florida as we

have sought to reach long-overdue agreement with the federal government on

outstanding issues in the contingency plan."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 12, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISRAELI ECONOMIC HOPES TIED TO LOAN GUARANTEES

BYLINE: By MARCIA KUNSTEL, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The $10 billion in loan guarantees Israel wants from the United States,

billed as humanitarian relief for Soviet immigrants, in fact would help

support a sweeping economic facelift for the Jewish state, fixing everything

from sagging railway lines to gridlock in Tel Aviv.

Israeli leaders have drawn a plan that goes far beyond the immediate needs of
hundreds of thousands of Jewish immigrants. It would correct deep-seated

problems not directly tied to the emigre issue, problems that have plagued the
Jewish state for years.

"It can change all of our society," Amnon Neubach, minister for economic

affairs at the Israeli Embassy, said this week.

"If we implement it well and open the market well, and the private sector takes
this opportunity, then five or six years from now, this will be another
economy."

Israeli officials acknowledge their vast development plans when asked. But for
months, in their attempt to secure American approval, they have emphasized the
more appealing humanitarian dimension of housing and putting to work as

many as one million Soviet Jewish immigrants who may arrive by 1996.

Attention on the loan issue has focused on a hot political debate: the

Bush administration's efforts to condition the guarantees on Israel halting

the construction of settlements in occupied Arab territories. That may come to a
head any day, with Secretary of State James Baker's return Wednesday from a
European trip.

This emotional issue, along with lesser concerns over Israel's ability to repay
the loans that the U.S. government would be co-signing through the

guarantees, have obscured Israel's broader aim of lifting its economy out of

stagnation and into a vigorous new role in the world marketplace.

That has drawn some questions, most notably from Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., whose
House subcommittee on foreign operations recently held a hearing on the loan
guarantees.

"This is the dilemma for the average American: we cannot get support in

this city for job creation or job expansion programs in our own country,"

Obey said. "We're going to have a devil of a time convincing the American

people, in light of our own economic situation, that we have an obligation to
retool the Israeli economy."

He questioned the extensive public improvements. The Israeli government

would pay for only about one-third of them directly, but would make loans

available to private enterprise to accomplish the rest.

Likewise, many billions would be loaned to private business to expand and help
create the 620,000 jobs Israel expects to need by 1996 to accommodate

immigrants and normal population growth. The goal, according to the planning
document and to Israeli officials, is buttressing the nation's weak private

sector and redirecting it into lucrative export production.

Israel doesn't have enough money either for its own budget or for the

loans to business, which is why it wants the $10 billion in loan guarantees.

Israeli officials say the guarantees would show U.S. government confidence in
their plans, making it possible not only to get loans at low interest rates in
the United States but enabling Israel to borrow another $10 billion in other

foreign financial markets.

That $20 billion in loans would cover the shortage in foreign currency

that Israeli planners have estimated must be overcome to carry out the

program.

Israel's economy is beginning to emerge from a socialistic orientation in which
government has run everything from food subsidies to most of the

nation's industrial machine. Whether it is able to push ahead with change in

such areas as privatization and trade liberalization will determine whether

the ambitious plan for absorbing immigrants and recharging the economy will

work.

Much as the huge number of immigrants in the early 1950s provided the

brains and hands and energy to build the Jewish nation, so is this new wave of
Soviet immigrants viewed by many as an opportunity for Israel to move into a

new era.

EXPENDITURES THROUGH THE 1990S

The Israeli master plan, including money from other sources, calls for the
following expenditures in infrastructure through the 1990s:

Roadways in metropolitan areas $ 2.40 billion

National `Highway 6' $ .75 billion

Other roads $ 1.25 billion

Railways $ 1.50 billion

Airports and related installations $ .50 billion

Acquisition of airplanes $ 1.00 billion

Harbors $ .80 billion

Acquisition of ships $ 1.00 billion

Electricity $ 6.00 billion

Fuel $ .50 billion

Communications $ 6.50 billion

Education $ 1.90 billion

Health $ .30 billion

Various other social services $ .30 billion

Water $ .70 billion

Sewerage $ .10 billion

Miscellaneous $ .70 billion

TOTAL $26.20 billion

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 17, 1992 Tuesday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

INS TO DEPORT 6 CHINESE FOUND AT SEA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 156 words


Six Chinese picked up by the Coast Guard off Jupiter were being processed

for deportation Monday at Krome Detention Center in Miami, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman said.

The man who allegedly tried to smuggle in the five men and one woman

Saturday night, Antolino Rodgriguez, 37, of Miami has not been charged. He

will go before U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac in West Palm Beach this week, Miami
INS agent Frank Doyle said.

Rodriguez told the Coast Guard he spotted the Chinese floating on inner

tubes soon after he left Freeport, Bahamas, in his boat. The boat's engine

quit about 6 miles offshore, and Rodriguez radioed the Coast Guard for help,

he said.

But Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards in Riviera Beach said the Chinese

were dry and could not have been on inner tubes.

Rodriguez, who had $1,100 in cash when he was arrested, was charged in

1980 with aggravated assault and battery on a police officer in Florida,

Richards said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 17, 1992 Tuesday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

INS TO DEPORT 6 CHINESE FOUND AT SEA

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 161 words


Six Chinese picked up by the Coast Guard off Jupiter were being processed

for deportation Monday at Krome Detention Center in Miami, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman said.

The man who allegedly tried to smuggle in the five men and one woman

Saturday night, Antolino Rodgriguez, 37, of Miami has not been charged. He

will go before U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac in West Palm Beach this week, Miami
INS agent Frank Doyle said.

Rodriguez told the Coast Guard he spotted the Chinese floating on inner

tubes soon after he left Freeport, Bahamas, in his boat. The boat's engine

quit about 6 miles offshore, and Rodriguez radioed the Coast Guard for help,

he said.

But Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards in Riviera Beach said the Chinese

were dry and could not have been on inner tubes.

"The Asians have found an easy way to get into the U.S. from the

Bahamas, and we feel that many of them make it," Richards said. "The only

ones we catch are the ones who get into trouble."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 19, 1992 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BOAT CAPTAIN PLEADS GUILTY TO HOMICIDE;
BAHAMIAN GETS 3 YEARS IN DEATH OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STAPLETON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Bahamian captain whose boat capsized, killing a crew member and three

refugees he was smuggling into the United States, pleaded guilty Wednesday to
vessel homicide.

Frederick McCartney, 31, said he wanted "to get it over with" and

accepted a plea bargain calling for three years in prison. McCartney's

sentence will run simultaneously with a four-year federal sentence for

smuggling illegal immigrants.

McCartney was originally charged with three counts of vessel homicide in

the drowning deaths of three passengers on his boat. In exchange for

McCartney's guilty plea, Assistant State Attorney Robert Johnson dropped two

of the charges.

Circuit Judge Marvin Mounts expressed concern about the length of

McCartney's sentence and why Johnson dropped two of the charges.

"There are three counts of killing human beings and he's going to plead

to only one," Mounts said. "It's going to be pretty hard for the reading,

viewing and listening public to understand this."

Johnson said there were serious problems with the state's case, especially
proving that McCartney's boat capsized within state waters.

In the dark morning hours of April 4, McCartney and his first mate were

transporting five illegal immigrants aboard a 31-foot fishing boat. The five

-- three men from the Dominican Republic and two Haitian women-- had paid

$1,000 to $1,500 for the trip, according to court records.

Seas were 6 to 9 feet that night and winds were 25 mph, gusting to 33 mph. The
National Weather Service had issued a small craft advisory the day before,
warning captains of the rough seas.

During the crossing, one of the boat's engines quit in the Gulf Stream,

slowing the vessel. Then a wave broke over the side of the boat, capsizing it
off the Jupiter Inlet.

Both women, one of the men and a crew member were trapped under the hull and
drowned.

McCartney had a marine radio and distress flares aboard but issued no May Day
warning and fired no flares. There were life jackets for all but one

passenger.

Two of the men survived, along with McCartney and his first mate.

McCartney pleaded guilty in federal court to smuggling illegal immigrants and
was sentenced to four years in prison and two years' probation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 28, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION MEETING PLEASES CHILES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The federal government has promised to keep working on an unfinished plan

for immigration emergencies, Gov. Lawton Chiles said Friday after a meeting

with U.S. Attorney General William Barr.

"I was very pleased with the meeting," Chiles said, then added: "Now

we'll have to see what happens. I've had good meetings before."

Barr didn't commit to a timetable during Thursday's meeting but said that
federal officials would keep working on the plan, Chiles said. The governor

also said he thought the state would have a different relationship with the

U.S. Justice Department now that Barr was in charge of it.

"He's helped us before," Chiles said, citing progress made in the 20-

year-old federal lawsuit over prison conditions that resulted in the

federal government monitoring some operations.

The Washington meeting between Barr and Chiles was scheduled after the

governor wrote President Bush on the eve of the president's Florida trip

earlier this month complaining about the federal government's failure to

finish the plan.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS....ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 9, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REPORT RIPS 54 HAITIANS' REPATRIATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A federal report produced "some very disturbing findings" about the U.S.

handling of Haitian refugees, including the accidental repatriation of 54

people who were legitimate candidates for asylum, a congressman charged

Wednesday.

Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Mich., said in a release that the report by the

General Accounting Office, the congressional watchdog of government spending,
found that the Haitians on Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, were handled in a flawed

manner.

"Regrettably, there appear to have been serious failures in the

immigration system," said Conyers, chairman of the House Government

Operations Committee.

"This jumbled and unfair system has sent back innocent Haitian refugees

with valid human rights claims," he said in a release.

Conyers said the results of the study would be released today.

He said the study found the Immigration and Naturalization Service was

using flawed processing procedures resulting from clerical errors, information
processing delays and poor system design.

Conyers said the failures of the INS "makes a mockery of the U.S. refugee
system."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 9, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

177 ARRESTED IN DADE

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 55 words

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD


U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested 177 undocumented farm workers in one of

South Florida's largest immigration raids.

The Border Patrol obtained a search warrant for the estimated 4,000 acres owned
or leased by Strano Farms, a spokesman said.

The agents on Tuesday arrested 165 Mexican nationals, nine Guatemalans and three
Salvadorans.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 10, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBA BASE AGAIN USED FOR HAITIANS

BYLINE: United Press International

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A resurgence in Haitians fleeing their homeland in overloaded sailboats has
prompted the government to return to its practice of housing refugees at a

tent camp at a U.S. naval base in Cuba, officials said Thursday.

The Coast Guard rescued 62 Haitians from two crowded sailboats in

international waters off the Caribbean island Wednesday, Coast Guard Petty

Officer Roger Wetherell said.

"It seems like it is increasing," he said. "In February, we had 1,222.

In March, it was 1,158. In April so far, it's 1,095 and the month is only nine
days old."

The recently intercepted Haitians were receiving food and medical care

aboard the cutters Vigilant and Tampa. The refugees will be taken to the U.S.
naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where they will be housed at a tent camp

until Immigration and Naturalization Service agents determine whether they

qualify to seek political asylum.

Those found to be fleeing poverty will be returned to Haiti, and those

who convince immigration agents they would face political persecution if

returned will be allowed to seek U.S. asylum.

The Guantanamo camp was established last year when Haitians began fleeing in
larger numbers than the Coast Guard could handle aboard cutters. Before

that, the Coast Guard intercepted boat people, and immigration agents

determined aboard the cutters whether they qualified to seek asylum.

Immigration officials had nearly cleared Guantanamo of refugees when the
resurgence of boat people began in March, prompting them to again take boat

people to the camp.

Agency officials think the increase in fleeing Haitians may have been

prompted by a ruling by U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson of New York, said
Cassie Boothe, an INS spokeswoman.

Johnson ruled Monday that Haitians found to have valid claims for asylum cannot
be repatriated without first having access to a lawyer.

But the repatriations of those not found qualified for asylum has

continued, with the Coast Guard returning 245 Haitians Wednesday.

The number of Haitians fleeing in dangerously crowded vessels first

surged in October after a Sept. 29 bloody military coup ousted President Jean
Bertrand-Aristide.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 12, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIGRATION IS ROOTED IN POLITICAL CLIMATE

BYLINE: By SONJA ISGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 326 words


According to Immigration and Naturalization Services, 236,892 Haitians have
obtained permanent residency or American citizenship since 1980. Almost 17,000
of them did so in 1990, and of those, 4,086 have said they plan to live in the
metropolitan area from West Palm Beach to Boca Raton.

They fled Haiti in a pattern that is familiar to experts who study

immigration from unstable nations.

* Mid-1970s: As political tensions mounted under Jean-Claude Duvalier,

thousands of middle-class Haitians armed with degrees and English skills

applied for visas and moved to the United States. They settled in Miami and

cities in Massachusetts and New York.

* Early 1980s: A second wave of immigration began. The less-educated

farmers and manual laborers left by plane and by boat -- eventually

overloading ships in desperate attempts to reach the United States. Thousands
were detained in Miami, while others were allowed to unite with family

members. Because many were not skilled or educated, they headed north to the

first available work -- farming. Many settled for jobs in Belle Glade or in

the nurseries of western Delray Beach.

* Mid-1980s: The local Haitian populations increased as friends and

relatives joined Haitians established in South Florida. Delray Beach's

population is predominantly from Haiti's northern countryside, specifically

from Port-de-Paix. In Lake Worth, residents talk of their homes in Saint-Marc
and Jean Denis. Until their houses were leveled for the Downtown/Uptown

project, an estimated 3,000 Haitians lived in West Palm Beach.

* 1990s: A frenzied exodus resumed after President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was
forced from office. The U.S. military turned back the refugees, housing

more than 13,000 Haitians at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba while they

sought political asylum. More than 400 have been released from Guantanamo

while awaiting word on asylum, and Daniella Henry of the Haitian-American

Chamber of Commerce says 50 have moved into Delray Beach.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  A HOME AWAY FROM HAITI.....Ran all editions...Series

GRAPHIC: CHART

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 12, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOPE, HARDSHIP FOUND IN DELRAY

BYLINE: By SONJA ISGER, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3357 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


They gathered 700 strong at their Catholic Church. They marched daily,

sometimes a dozen abreast, to City Hall. They carried signs in broken English
and shouted in their native creole.

The ouster of their homeland's first elected president on Sept. 30 was

an autumn awakening for the Haitians of Delray Beach. Within a month, a

community more than a decade in the making had taken to the streets and

discovered its voice.

The sudden visibility stirred fears among neighbors. The mayor wrote his
congressmen, asking that the government send money if thousands more Haitians
were allowed to immigrate.

Residents cranked out letters to local officials and to newspapers,

opposing a wave of new immigrants. They said immigrants create a huge tax

burden, wrest low-paying jobs from already struggling workers and expose other
residents to tuberculosis and AIDS.

No one doubts the Haitian influx of the past decade has changed Delray

Beach. Most observers put the population at around 8,000-- up from mere

hundreds in 1980-- and some Haitian leaders have claimed it runs as high as

13,000.

The city hired Haitian employees, schools taught the immigrants English

and basic working skills, and established neighborhoods made room for new

residents.

The Haitians made changes as well, building networks to find and keep

jobs, support families, open businesses and begin to claim a voice in

America's political system.

And they have strived to contribute to their community:

* Haitians seek work immediately and move on to better jobs as their

language and skills develop. Some Haitians eventually save enough money to

open businesses.

* Often combining incomes, they rent apartments and eventually buy homes. In a
Palm Beach Post search of 1,600 property records in one area of Delray

Beach, Haitians owned almost 20 percent of the single-family homes.

* As owners of businesses and homes, Haitians pay taxes. In The Post

survey area, Haitian homeowners paid 1991 tax bills that averaged $1,006

-- about $89 higher than their non-Haitian neighbors. For all properties in

the survey area-- including homes, commercial properties, vacant land

-- Haitians were billed for $242,000 of about $1.9 million in taxes.

* At night adults pack the local middle school, cramming in English

lessons after 12- to 15-hour workdays. And their children, some of whom

started out in programs that teach basic English skills, are emerging as

leaders in high school.

* No longer willing to be easy targets for bullies and swindlers, Haitians are
arming themselves with a very effective weapon: knowledge of their rights.
SETTLE NEAR FRIENDS, JOBS

Many Haitians begin their lives in the United States working in vegetable fields
or plant nurseries in Belle Glade or west of Delray Beach, but they

seldom stay on beyond four or five seasons.

In that time they learn enough English and save enough money to head east to the
more coveted jobs in the kitchens and laundry rooms of hotels and

restaurants.

In the early years, Haitians found Delray Beach a convenient place to live
because it was between jobs in western Palm Beach County and the food, medical
and other services they sought from compatriots in Dade and Broward counties.
"Haitians move until they find the right place to settle," said Dr.

Pierre-Paul Cadet, who opened his general practice in Delray Beach in 1984.

"They move to places where they have relatives or know people . . . If I

know you from Haiti, and there's a job opening where I work, I'm going to call
you."

That's how the Boca Raton Resort and Club built much of its Haitian

staff. More than 350 of the hotel's 2,000 employees are Haitian.

"We encourage hiring families so they have a tendency to stay longer,"

said Hardy Nicoleau, the hotel's human resources coordinator, who is Haitian. In
addition to full-time work and health insurance, the hotel offers in-

house English classes. It also pays for employees to earn a high school

diploma and for some college courses.

"The smarter the employee, the better it is for the hotel-- the standards are
higher," Nicoleau said. "And when you show the employees you care, and

it is visible, they want to stay."

The atmosphere enticed Daniel Delva to work in the hotel's laundry room for
eight years. But the urge to run his own tailor shop compelled him to leave in
1988.

Delva is one of the dozens of Haitians who have built "Little Haiti" in

the 20 square blocks bounded by Swinton and West Atlantic avenues, Southeast

Fourth Street and Federal Highway.

There, Haitian tailors, grocers and exporters have taken over the

warehouse storefronts.

The Haitian-American Chamber of Commerce lists more than 100 Haitian-owned or
operated businesses across the county, 47 of them in Delray Beach.

Delva, a slightly built 47-year-old, sits at the door of his shop with a

neon orange tape measure draped around his neck.

"Sometimes business is good, sometimes it is not," he says.

When business is good, up to four people toil side by side in the closet- sized
shop on Southeast Second Avenue. Today, however, has been slow, and

Delva has spent the day buying groceries in a Miami Haitian market.

Whatever cash Daniel Delva can scrape together goes to his wife and six

children in Haiti and to Delva's old tailor shop, which his brother now

manages.

Three blocks away, Julianna Georges governs a stovetop of simmering

stewed griot (goat) and Georges' legumes et viande (spinach and beef).

While Delva's business has its busy spurts, Georges, owner of Ebenzer

Georges' Haitian Restaurant, finds herself with hours of idle time and barely
enough business to cover her $1,020 monthly rent.

She washes and re-washes the five mismatched Formica-top tables, 14

chairs and two bar stools, one with a broken seat.

"I know lots of things can be done to make this place nicer, but I

don't have the money," says Georges, who left Port-au-Prince in 1980. She

worked in the fields out west and at the hotel before opening her restaurant,
and "studied" English by watching TV shows such as The Price Is Right.

By all accounts, Georges is a good cook. But she has little education

and business experience.

"They think if you have the money, you open the business," said

Daniella Henry of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce. But they don't always know
the laws or business practices that could float them in hard times or sink

them at any time.

Already, Haitian entrepreneurs built what appears to be a highly

competitive market. Three Haitian restaurants, five groceries and a handful of
dress shops and coin laundries dot a 10-block area, all vying for the same

customers.

The Delray Beach Chamber of Commerce and the Haitian-American Chamber are
working together to reach the Georgeses of the Haitian community before they

open a business.

"Most importantly, we need to educate them on how to run their business and how
to get loans," said Maria Gaitan, manager of the First Union Bank in

Delray Beach. She had two Haitians come to her recently with $3,000 in cash

-- all in $1 and $5 bills.

"They had never been to a bank and didn't trust them," said Gaitan, who

in a slow loan market has turned to Haitian businesses to make her niche.

Gaitan, a native of Nicaragua, understands that a language barrier and a foreign
culture are intimidating. She has hired a Haitian teller to help

anyone who wants to open an account.

VARYING POPULATION ESTIMATES

Delray Beach officials and government agencies have tried to provide

services for the Haitian community, but they lack an accurate population count
on which to base their programs or to estimate their success.

Few agencies distinguish between Haitians and African-Americans, and the 1990
Census figures on nations of origin haven't been released. Experts also

consider Haitians likely to have been undercounted.

Chantal Thomas, longtime director of the Haitian-American Community

Center in West Palm Beach, estimates the county's Haitian population at as

much as 48,000. Even without firm numbers, Haitian leaders throughout Palm

Beach County generally consider Delray Beach the unofficial "capital" of the

Haitian population, ahead of Lake Worth and Belle Glade.

If Haitian leaders' low-range estimate of 8,000 is correct, there are as many
Haitians today in Delray Beach as there were African-Americans in 1980.

Based on a city population of 50,000, Haitians would be 16 percent of the

community.

But City Manager David Harden said his staff believes even that estimate may be
high. They believe it tops out at 6,000.

No one has called Harden to complain, and few residents have spoken

publicly against the Haitian presence. Yet the tension has been apparent in

the handful of meetings of Haitian leaders, city officials and non-Haitian

residents.

"My guess is a lot of these are people who have been in Delray a good

while and see the character of the city changing and are fearful of what that
change may bring," Harden said.

To the Haitian leaders, the population discrepancy thwarts efforts to

coordinate the Haitian community and the city. They want Delray Beach to do a
census to produce more solid numbers.

"They are one way to bargain for your people-- if you have the numbers, you can
really put on the pressure," said Jahn Francis, the parish council

president at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Catholic Church. He said he is certain
the city estimate is too low.

"If they think it's only 5,000 and other people say it's 12,000,

naturally they won't look at you the same," Francis said. "If we can prove

we have 10,000 or 15,000, they will pay attention."

For years, no change in the city's programs really seemed necessary.

Then in 1985 and 1986, the Haitian population boomed and city officials found
the new residents difficult to ignore.

Police, fire and code enforcement officers encountered more and more

Haitians in their daily routines and couldn't understand the staccato creole

they spoke.

In 1987, the city hired four code enforcement officers, two of whom were Haitian
and acted as interpreters for all city departments. The additional

positions were later cut for budget reasons, but two Haitian officers remain. In
late 1990, the Police Department hired a Haitian police officer and

community service officer. In February, another Haitian officer joined the

force.

The department has only begun to quantify the role Haitians play in the

city's crime. Though numbers aren't solid, police believe Haitians continue to
be easy targets in a disproportionate amount of crime.

Of 200 units of public housing in Carver Estates, only eight are occupied by
Haitian families. And few Haitian property owners have asked for help

through the city's various home improvement programs.

About 25 percent of the 82 children who spend part of their day at the

Community Child Care Center are Haitian. The center in northern Delray Beach

provides federal- and state-supported day care for children of working parents
with low incomes.

Parents must have a job and pay a percentage of the weekly costs, which

average $70 per child.

Other state and federal benefits are more difficult to measure because

agencies such as Health and Rehabilitative Services do not differentiate

between Haitians and African-Americans.

Last year, the Delray Beach branch office served more than 4,000

households with some type of public assistance-- food stamps, Medicaid or Aid to
Families with Dependent Children. HRS officials estimate 300 of those

households were Haitian.

The numbers do not include recent Haitian immigrants, including 50 who

have arrived within the past few months from U.S. refugee camps at Guantanamo
Bay Naval Base in Cuba. Those people are entitled under the Refugee Assistance
Program to food stamps, Medicaid and $167 a month for eight months, without

meeting the same criteria that other recipients must meet.

The possibility that more Haitians may immigrate to town concerns some

residents.

"We have so many problems within our own country," said Joann Peart, who

lives in Del Ida Park. "If we can't support our own, I think 10,000

immigrants are a burden on a community or on a county."

Peart says she and others fear the influx is placing too large a burden

on the schools. And they said they have heard the Haitians bring tuberculosis
and AIDS.

They have contacted a Washington organization that advocates restricting the
laws that allow family members to join immigrants already in the United

States. The Federation for American Immigration Reform wants to eliminate what
its brochures call "the employment and welfare magnets attracting illegal

aliens."

For now, the policy remains equal access to health programs.

"When they land on our shores, they have the same right to request and

receive timely and appropriate medical care," said Bob Scott, HRS district

AIDS coordinator. "You can't politicize and discriminate against people just

because they're trying to emigrate from a Caribbean nation."

At one time, Haitians were considered one of the high-risk groups for

AIDS. But that changed by the mid-1980s when more became known about the

disease, said Dr. Jean Malecki, director of the Palm Beach County Health Unit.
Health departments in the United States no longer track AIDS or

tuberculosis by race or nationality, she said.

Haitian leaders say medical care, which like the school system doesn't

require proof of residency, is one of the few systems Haitians benefit from

when they pay taxes but don't have legal residency.

Still, the social system Haitians find most reliable is family.

They pool money to live in homes and apartments with brothers, sisters,

cousins and in-laws until they can help themselves. Such arrangements have

drawn criticism and once violated city codes, which limited the number of

people living in a home.

The codes have been rewritten to allow all extended family to stay under

one roof.

Though Haitians live throughout the city, most are concentrated between

Interstate 95 and Swinton Avenue, south of West Atlantic Avenue and north of

Linton Boulevard. Officials estimate that two-thirds rent their homes, but

since 1987 home ownership has increased.

In The Post search of more than 1,600 property records from that area,

Haitians owned at least 199 of the 1,131 single-family homes.

They have moved into the heart of Delray Beach's traditionally black

neighborhoods. And if their reception among the white community was sometimes
cool, the Haitians' reception among the black community was icy.

They were met with vicious words and even violence from the very people

they thought would be most sympathetic.

CHURCH IS SOCIAL, SPIRITUAL CENTER

"They are poor. They are oppressed. They came over here and expected to

meet people like themselves," said Les McDermott, president of the South Palm
Beach County Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People.

"The Haitians quickly realized they needed education and to assimilate.

And a lot of blacks resented that, because (the Haitians) were doing things to
better themselves" that some blacks had failed to do, McDermott said.

But Haitians share the blame for the rift, McDermott says. They should

have tried to blend better with the established black community and should

have sought advice for dealing with racial problems, he said.

In the past two months, the communities have decided to hold workshops to ease
tensions and perhaps one day work for common goals.

Church is social, spiritual center

On any given Sunday morning, more than 4,000 Haitians attend church

services conducted in creole throughout Delray Beach.

"In every immigrant group, the church plays a big role. They rally around

the church. It's spiritual, social, political," said the Rev. Roland

Desormeaux.

As priest at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Catholic Church, Desormeaux

guides the spiritual, social and political lives of many of the city's church-
going Haitians. He is also one of the loudest and most powerful voices

for the county's Haitians.

Desormeaux came to town in 1987. Though thousands of Haitians had already
settled in Delray Beach, he could muster only 80 people for his first Sunday

sermon.

The clearest voice for the community at that time was Thomas, the

director of West Palm Beach's Haitian American Community Center. Thomas

organized protests when Haitians were mistreated and was the Haitian liaison

to county government.

But Thomas' job was to run a social service center. When Desormeaux's

following grew and he was able to organize and speak for the Delray Beach

Haitian community, Thomas said she was happy to step out of the spotlight.

Most Haitians are born Catholic, and the churches in Haiti are

extensions of the community, Desormeaux said. The members there notice a new

face, show concern when one is missing, he said.

But when the Haitians crossed the threshold of Palm Beach County Catholic
churches in the mid-1980s, their faces became lost in the crowds. And their

problems seemed too far afield from the sometimes white, almost always middle-
class congregations, Desormeaux said.

"They weren't known. Nobody knew they just came from Haiti yesterday,"

said Desormeaux, whose church has grown to more than 1,000 members. Now, even
Desormeaux has trouble spotting new members unless they come to him.

In an effort to find a closer-knit church community, some of the

immigrants left the Catholic Church and found or created their own

congregations. The reaction is common to immigrant Catholics of all

nationalities, Desormeaux said.

Some found comfort in The Church of God of Prophecy with Pastor Luc

Loriston. Loriston arrived in Delray Beach in 1980 from St. Marc, Haiti, where
he worked in a Protestant church.

The first Sunday school meetings were held in a rented house on Fifth

Avenue, Loriston said. The congregation has moved twice since, each time

trying to accommodate growing numbers.

Today both Desormeaux and Loriston hold services to packed houses. Creole rings
from the pulpit, punctuated with the upbeat rhythms of drums and guitars
accompanying French hymns. The services are one way to perpetuate the culture.
"The kids must know about the Haitian culture, that's why we have no

services in English," Desormeaux said. "And we're trying to set up Sunday

meetings where parents would just sit down with kids and tell stories" as is

common in Haiti.

Emilienne Jeune, a 30-year-old divorced mother of two, says she wants to pass on
a piece of culture from the country she left 10 years ago. So last

year she took her daughters to stay with family in Haiti for two months. But

their mother's homeland was unappealing.

"They told me they don't want to go back," Jeune said. "I don't blame

them. There are things going on now, I don't want to go back there myself."

Except for a few words in creole and the weekend dishes Jeune prepares for
herself, there's little trace of Haiti in the Jeune home.

"They are more like American kids. But they do what I tell them to do."

Unlike many Haitians, Jeune has become a U.S. citizen. Last year in the United
States, only 5,009 Haitians gained citizenship, something many resist

though their leaders insist it is necessary. Many hold out hope they can

return to Haiti when its political troubles subside.

One Tuesday night, Desormeaux gathers a dozen Haitian-American citizens in his
office. As the choir practices in the pews, the priest makes his first pitch for
organization.

In creole, he and the parish council president compare the Haitians'

situation to that of Jews in America. The strength of the Jewish voting bloc

in America has forced the government to maintain strong ties to Israel.

Desormeaux tells the hushed crowd how President Bush was recently in

Miami and spoke about Fidel Castro in Cuba and the political events in

Venezuela. And despite more than 100,000 Haitians in Miami and the 13,000

awaiting their fate in Guantanamo Bay, not a word was said about ousted

Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, he said.

Haitians need to learn that voting in this country and in this city means
controlling their destiny and the destiny of those still in Haiti, Desormeaux
said.

"If you are a citizen and do not participate in the life of the

country," Desormeaux said, "you are good for nothing, you may as well be

dead."

* Tomorrow's conclusion of `A Home Aay from Haiti' examines the special

educational needs of Haitian immigrants and what is being done to meet those

needs. It also looks at home ownership among Haitians.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  A Home Away From Haitit / Haitians in Delray / Ran all editions / First
of two parts

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) AND MAP (STAFF GRAPHIC)
 (1) BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer Church is a spiritual, political and social
bond for thousands of Haitians such as Marie Ange Belizaire, who prays at The
Church of God of Prophecy. (2) Photo by RICHARD GRAULICH ' Sometimes business is
good, sometimes it is not,' says Daniel Delva, who operates a small tailor shop
on Second Avenue in `Little Haiti.' (3) ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer The
Rev. Roland Desormeaux introduces bride Umenite Lorient and groom Josselin
Bien-Aime to the celebrants at Our Lady of Perpetual Help. (4) BOB SHANLEY/Staff
Photographer Haitian church services, such as this Sunday worship at The Church
of God of Prophecy, are conducted in creole to preserve a sense of community.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 22, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LIKUD GIVES 5,000 IMMIGRANTS WEST BANK TOUR, CAMPAIGN PITCH

BYLINE: By LOUIS J. SALOME, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: MAALE LEVONAH, ISRAELI-OCCUPIED WEST BANK


As political deals go, this one shaped up as an ideological bonanza. It

shook down as something of a political bust.

The ruling hard-line Likud Party piled 5,000 Israelis, many of them new

Soviet immigrants, into 100 buses on Tuesday and then guided them on what

amounted to a rolling campaign picnic to controversial Jewish settlements in

the northern part of the occupied West Bank.

With national elections fast approaching, the intent was to reinforce

Likud's commitment to continued Israeli settlements in the West Bank-- despite
vehement Bush administration complaints that they undermine prospects for

peace in the Middle East.

See, the election campaigners told their captive audience, the Likud is

committed to the settlements, while the opposition Labor Party would surrender
them to Palestinians and American pressure.

As the Likud pitchmen pitched, the new immigrants could join the

ideological wave by taking advantage of rock bottom government loans to buy

homes in the occupied territories and help cement them to Israel.

While you're at it, the organizers told the immigrants, in the June 23

elections, throw in a vote for the Likud, the real Israelis.

But as many immigrants saw it, the Likud's ideology was something to be

taken advantage of, not necessarily supported.

Few of the immigrants own cars, and fewer still get to tour Israel, let

alone the West Bank.

But Tuesday was warm and sunny and in the middle of the relaxing weeklong
Passover holiday. A free trip at the Likud's expense? You bet, answered many

of the immigrant tourists-for-a-day.

"This was a free trip today, so we came," said a smiling Vladimir

Goberman of the coastal town of Netanya. Goberman was joined by his wife,

Galina, and daughter Malvina, all of whom moved to Israel from Ukraine three

months ago.

Even Yael Ben Dov, 63, who lives on the Palestinian side of Jerusalem,

said she mainly went along for a nice day in the sun. But she backs the Likud
and supports the settlers.

Many of the immigrants didn't know the trip was sponsored by the Likud and were
angry when they found out. They were even angrier when they had to listen to
political speeches by leading Likudniks in the large settlement of Ariel at the
end of a tiring day.

"We read the newspapers and watch television and we don't need to be told what
to do by the Likud politicians," complained Olga Komush, 20, who

recently moved from Moscow to Jerusalem.

Michael Magelevsky, 55, another new Israeli from the old Soviet Union,

said he traveled from the immigrant town of Mitzpe Ramon in the far south of

Israel "because the Likud told us that today we must go."

Magelevsky said he would move to the West Bank if he could find a job,

which is a main goal of immigrants throughout Israel. But Magelevsky said he

isn't sure whether the territories, occupied by Israel since the 1967 Middle

East war, should be considered a part of Israel.

The buses, many carrying armed guides, went in different directions. The

passengers saw monuments to Israeli victims of the 4-year-long Palestinian

uprising against Israel's occupation, new roads linking settlements to each

other and to Israel proper, and new settler construction reaching to the sky

high above the rocky hills and old Palestinian villages.

Finally, the buses reassembled in Ariel, with its roughly 9,000 settlers, for
the surprise political speeches.

There was considerable disorganization and about half the buses lacked

guides for the trip.

Uzi at his side, guide David Rosen, 24, laughed as he heard complaints

about how badly organized the trip was. "What do you expect?" he asked.

"The Likud has ruined the country with its corruption and inefficiency."

Rosen is no lefty. If anything, the Likud is too soft for him. He lives in the
settlement of Oranit and fully backs the settlement movement.

Despite the confusion and the criticism, Likud figures to reap political

benefits.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 26, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

END DOUBLE STANDARDS IN OUR HAITIAN REFUGEE POLICY

BYLINE: BY JAC WILDER VERSTEEG

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 998 words


The morning after the Sept. 30, 1991, coup against Haitian President Jean-

Bertrand Aristide, soldiers in jeeps roared into Cite Soleil, firing

randomly. Baptiste Colbert's wife, Francoise, was shot in the head and killed.
The Colberts' daughter, Sherlyn, was 3 months old.

You might think Baptiste Colbert had good reason to be afraid of Haiti's

army. But the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service didn't

think so. After the Coast Guard intercepted and burned the 25-year-old's boat,
he was returned to Haiti. As with about 12,000 others, he did not, according

to the INS, have a good case for political asylum.

But Marie-Porcelain Jean-Fils, like roughly 6,000 others, did have a

plausible case, immigration officials said. She was allowed to leave the

holding camp at Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba and come to Miami to press her

claim. Several thousand other Haitians remain at Guantanamo, in limbo. Mrs.

Jean-Fils wasn't politically active, she said, but the military outpost in her
small town was burned down. Everyone in the village was a potential target for
retribution.

The INS also decided Jean Charlot had a plausible case because he was an

Aristide organizer in Cite Soleil. But back in Cite Soleil, you can find Alix
Dy, another Aristide organizer who was interviewed by the INS and returned.

Don't try to make sense of INS policy. It doesn't make sense. Ever since

the coup sparked the refugee exodus, the Bush administration's goal-- followed
up in complex legal maneuvering-- has been to send the refugees back to Haiti as
quickly as possible. So far, the administration has largely prevailed. The INS
was in such a rush, the General Accounting Office says, that 54 Haitians

were mistakenly sent back even after INS officials had concluded that they had
suffered persecution or had a reasonable fear of suffering persecution.

U.S. policy, if it can be called that, is cruel, arbitrary and racist.

Many of those leaving Haiti are economic refugees. But their desperation is

caused by an American-backed embargo that is crushing the poor while missing

the real targets, Haiti's army and the wealthy. And while the INS is callously
turning back the starving poor, most of Haiti's elite retain the travel visas
that allow them to jet to Miami for shopping sprees.

One young Haitian businessman explained that Haiti's wealthy are

"investing" in a little immigration insurance. They send their pregnant

wives to American hospitals so their children are U.S. citizens. His own son, he
said, was born in New York three months ago.

Meanwhile, the desperate poor face heart-wrenching alternatives. Do they

risk putting pregnant women or small children on leaky sailboats? If not,

should they stay in Haiti and run the risk getting shot? Even if they're not

in personal danger, is it better to stay in Haiti while their families starve or
try to get to America with the hope of somehow sending money back or

bringing family members later?

When Alix Dy left Haiti, his wife was pregnant. We sent him back 19 days

before his child, Jason, was born. Jean Charlot left behind a wife and two

children, one 3 years old and the other 1. Baptiste Colbert left his infant

daughter in the care of his dead wife's sister. These men weren't abandoning

their families. They were trying to survive.

While he waits in America for a ruling on his immigration status-- a wait that
could be a year-- Mr. Charlot is trying to contact his family. Mr. Dy and Mr.
Colbert wait in Cite Soleil, wondering whether they--and their families

--will be targets the next time the army decides to crack down.

Meanwhile, Cubans who want to enter America don't wait. U.S. Sen. Connie

Mack, R-Fla., tells the story of the day in November when the Coast Guard

forcibly returned 300 Haitians but picked up three Cubans on a raft and

brought them to America for political asylum. Is Fidel Castro's regime more

brutal than Haiti's military? Amnesty International says 1,500 people died in
the Haitian coup. Reports of repression continue. The difference that no one

in the Bush administration will admit isn't that Castro is a Communist,

though. It's that the Haitians are black.

The Bush administration botched the problem of Haitian refugees because it
botched the larger problem of restoring democracy to Haiti. President Bush

waffled on returning President Aristide, which encouraged Haiti's army, led by
Raoul Cedras, to stall. But the waffling also discouraged Haiti's poor. The

misguided embargo just increased the exodus.

The humane solution would have been to grant the Haitian refugees

temporary protected status with the intention of returning them when democracy
is restored. That would have signaled Haiti's army that we were serious about
President Aristide's return to power. The U.S. also should have canceled the

travel visas of Haiti's wealthy, but officials didn't take that step until

this month. Even then, only 20 visas were canceled.

President Aristide points out that the simple solution to the immigration
problem is to return him to power. Few Haitians tried to come to the U.S.

during his nearly eight months in office. If President Aristide is returned,

many of the refugees will flock home after him.

Mr. Charlot makes it clear: "I told the INS during my first interview at

Guantanamo that if an airplane passed overhead right now, and they told me

Aristide was on that plane heading back to Haiti, don't even bother to finish
your interview. Send me back now."

Overworked lawyers for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami continue

preparing thousands of applications for political asylum. Each takes eight

hours to complete. The U.S. State Department reviews each application before

the INS makes a decision. The procedure could easily take a year. But the

Haitians grinding through the bureaucracy are lucky. They got out. They will

get work permits for a year. Those in Haiti get hunger and fear.

The United States has been intent on returning Haiti's boat people. If

only we'd been as intent on returning democracy and President Aristide.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2)
 PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG LOVETT (1) Baptiste Colbert was sent back to Haiti. (2)
Jean Charlot made it to a Budget Inn in Miami.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 5, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 HAITIAN TEENS REUNITED WITH RELATIVES

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Tears streamed down the cheeks of Searjor Filemon as he embraced the tall

young man who was an infant when political turmoil in Haiti separated father

and son.

"My heart is happy," said Filemon of Belle Glade after greeting his 14-

year-old son, Jackson Filemon, at Palm Beach International Airport.

Jackson Filemon and another Haitian teenager, Jean Edson Volcy, 17,

arrived in West Palm Beach Monday after spending weeks stranded in immigration
centers in Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba, and the United States.

Volcy was greeted by his aunt, Gladys Ulysse of Delray Beach, who leaped in a
dance of joy when she saw her nephew in the airport concourse.

The two Haitian teenagers, wearing manila envelopes around their necks as name
tags and sporting stylish American clothes in fluorescent colors, had

spent the past few weeks in a juvenile home in Jackson, Miss., while volunteer
agencies searched for their relatives in the United States.

More than 35 other teenagers who have fled Haiti since the September

overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide could be resettled in the Palm

Beach County area, said Madeleine Schutz, associate executive director of

Catholic Charities for the Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach.

Schutz said the children, some as young as 11, left Haiti unaccompanied by adult
family members. About 300 children are being kept at a temporary camp at
Guantanamo in eastern Cuba, she said.

U.S. immigration officials say children are not sent back to Haiti if

relatives in the United States willing to receive them are located.

Catholic Charities is working with federal agencies to find family members in
the United States and help the children file for political asylum. Tracking down
relatives is a difficult process, she said.

"The choice for these kids, if this doesn't work out, was to live with

strangers God knows where," Schutz said.

The two teenagers who arrived on Monday said they left Haiti because they saw
many people being killed and were frightened for their own lives.

Volcy said he had worked for Aristide's political party and heard that the
police were looking for him. He boarded a boat in January with 239 other

Haitian and were intercepted at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard.

Leaving Haiti with him were his two cousins, Pierre Destinvil, 21, and

Joanen Charles, 30. The cousins are living in Delray Beach and greeted Volcy

at the airport.

Filemon, 41, was joyous about seeing his son, but he is sad his six other

children remain in Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 5, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HIGH COURT SLAMS DOOR ON APPEALS

BYLINE: By BOB DART, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court declined to open the federal courthouse Monday to a Cuban
immigrant who said he pleaded "no contest" to manslaughter charges in state

court because he did not understand English.

By a 5-4 vote, the court ruled that federal courts are no longer obliged

to grant a hearing on a state prisoner's challenge to his conviction, even if
the prisoner can show that his lawyer had not properly presented crucial facts
of the case in a state-court appeal.

Until Monday, federal courts handling such challenges through writs of

habeas corpus petitions from state inmates were required to hold a hearing to
evaluate evidence if facts central to the case had not been presented

adequately to the state courts.

Because many state prisoners receive inadequate legal assistance in the

state courts, these federal court hearings have been a mainstay of criminal

appeals.

In this instance, the court ruled against Jose Tamayo-Reyes-- whom it

called "a Cuban immigrant with little education and almost no knowledge of

English"-- charged in 1984 with stabbing a man to death in an Oregon bar

fight.

Initially charged with murder, Tamayo-Reyes was provided with an attorney and an
interpreter. The lawyer recommended a plea of "no contest" to reduced

charges of manslaughter. In a state court hearing, Tamayo-Reyes told a judge

through the interpreter that he agreed to the plea bargain and understood the
consequences.

Later, after the judge accepted the plea, Tamayo-Reyes contended that he

had not understood the proceedings. On appeal, the defendant said he thought

he was agreeing to go on trial for manslaughter, not entering a plea. Oregon's
courts rejected his claims.

Tamayo-Reyes then appealed to a federal district court. A judge there

found "inexcusable neglect" by his lawyer had contributed to the plight of

the Spanish-speaking prisoner. Oregon prosecutors appealed that ruling.

The federal appeals court said Tamayo-Reyes was entitled to a hearing on

whether his lawyer had been negligent in not ensuring that the Hispanic client
understood the court's language. It said his failure to raise these issues in
state courts were not because of a "deliberate bypass"-- a strategy to get

the case to federal court by holding back issues that could have been

addressed earlier.

Overturning this decision, the Supreme Court said the appeals court was

wrong in using this "deliberate bypass" standard in deciding whether Tamayo-

Reyes was entitled to a federal hearing on the evidence in his case.

Writing for the majority, Justice Byron White said Tamayo-Reyes can get an
evidentiary hearing only if he can "show cause for his failure to develop the
facts in state-court proceedings and actual prejudice resulting from that

failure."

This is a tougher standard for a prisoner to meet.

Writing in dissent, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said the court has erected an
unfair barrier for state prisoners trying to get their appeals heard in

federal court.

"Tamayo-Reyes has alleged a fact that, if true, would entitle him to the

relief he seeks," O'Connor wrote.

"I would not cut off his right to prove his claim at a hearing."

OTHER ACTION

The court also Monday:

* RULED 5-4 in an Oklahoma case that federal judges cannot throw out an

indictment just because prosecutors withheld from the grand jury evidence

suggesting the defendant is innocent.

* GAVE federal judges, by a 7-2 vote, more power to throw out `frivolous'

cases as it dismissed a lawsuit by a California inmate who said he was drugged
and homosexually raped 28 times while incarcerated.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions ...info. box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 12, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD: HAITIAN EXODUS A STRAIN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


U.S. Coast Guard officials say a new surge of Haitian boat people is

straining its ability to cope with the continuing exodus from the strife-torn
nation.

Operating Coast Guard cutters, processing immigration claims and housing

refugees at the U.S. military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have cost nearly

$40 million since last fall, officials said.

"We're pushing our people and the equipment even harder-- and at some

point you got to pay for that," Coast Cmdr. Tim Sullivan said in Washington.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service, said the agency has spent $4 million of the $6 million set aside to

process Haitians.

As of Sunday, the Coast Guard had intercepted 26,601 U.S.-bound Haitians

since the overthrow of Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 14, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOTTERY FOR VISAS SCRAPPED

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 261 words


The 19 million letters submitted in last year's visa lottery sent the State
Department a strong message.

The lottery will be scrapped this year for a more orderly registration

program that allows only one letter from each immigrant seeking a visa to work
and live in the United States.

"We were deluged at the mailbox," said Sandy Campbell, a spokesman for

the State Department's Consular Affairs division. "I've heard that the

average applicant sent in 250 letters."

Also, thousands of applicants jammed a suburban Washington, D.C., post

office Oct. 24 for the lottery, hoping to be first in line.

Campbell said this year applicants' letters will be registered over a one- month
period. The applicant is disqualified if he sends in more than one

letter.

Registration will be held sometime during the summer, she said. No dates

have been announced and final rules will be released in June.

Immigrants from 36 countries are eligible to apply for the visas, which

were authorized by Congress to give special attention to countries that have

had low immigration rates in past years.

Most of the eligible countries are European. Canada has been added for the first
time this year.

Those selected for the 40,000 visas will be sent a application form. If

approved, the applicants will receive "green cards" that allow them to live

and work in the United States.

Congress ordered that 16,000 of the 40,000 visas offered each be set aside for
immigrants from Ireland and Northern Ireland.

For a recorded explanation of the visa program, call the State

Department's visa hotline at (202) 663-1600.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 14, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COUNCILMAN STIRS ANGER BY TELLING IMMIGRANTS TO RETURN TO VIETNAM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, CALIF.


A city councilman conceded Thursday that he may have misspoken when he told
Vietnamese immigrants, "If you want to be South Vietnamese, go back to South

Vietnam."

Councilman Frank Fry stopped short of apologizing for the remark, which he said
was intended to suggest that immigrants need to make more of an effort to
assimilate into American society.

Some Vietnamese immigrants said they would try to recall Fry over the

remark, delivered Tuesday night before the council voted down a request for a
parade to honor South Vietnamese and Americans killed in the Vietnam War.

"We're trying to promote harmony in the city," Tien Nguyen said. "We

are observing the American way, as well as our heritage."

Fry said Thursday he had received calls from Vietnamese immigrants

supporting his statement, because they believe the immigrants should

assimilate.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 10, 1991 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IRAQ ENVOY'S IMMIGRATION STUNS OTTAWA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


An embarrassed Canadian government questioned immigration and external

affairs employees Thursday to try to determine how the former Iraqi ambassador
to the United States wound up as a Canadian immigrant.

Mohammed Al-Mashat, 60, frequently seen on U.S television defending Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait in the days before the outbreak of war, was awarded

permanent residency in Canada March 27 as a financially independent retiree.

"A priority review is under way," said Gerry Maffre of Employment and

Immigration Canada. "The minister has asked why (senior officials) were not

apprised while a high-profile case was being handled."

The immigration procedure was carried out in a legal manner, but without

the knowledge of senior officials, Maffre said.

As a landed immigrant, Mashat is eligible for Canadian citizenship after

three years.

The ministry said it could not reveal Mashat's whereabouts under the

Canadian privacy act. In any case, the former ambassador was not required to

remain in contact with government officials.

"I find it incredible, unacceptable, that this could happen,"

Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt said Wednesday, acknowledging he had

only learned of the case the day before.

Valcourt said Mashat was fast-tracked because he had expressed concerns

for his safety and that immigration officials knew who he was. Why they did

not inform their superiors was unclear.

"I cannot blame officials for having granted an interview to someone who

could have been a high-ranking defector," Valcourt said. "He is here. It is

not important whether I am in agreement or not."

U.S. State Department officials said they played no role in helping the

former ambassador gain admission to Canada.

Mashat was recalled to Baghdad in mid-January, just before the outbreak of the
Persian Gulf War. He went instead to Austria, saying his wife needed

medical treatment. Late in February, Mashat applied at the Canadian Embassy in
Vienna to immigrate to Canada.

As a diplomat, he was granted a rapid interview and immediately jumped

ahead of more than 100,000 foreigners seeking refugee status in Canada.

Maffre said Valcourt will not say whether he would have prevented Mashat

from entering the country, "but he wouldn't have expedited it."

The ambassador's entry into Canada was criticized by opponents of Prime

Minister Brian Mulroney's conservative government.

"This makes us look like a dumping ground for one of the chief apologists of
Saddam Hussein," said Svend Robinson, foreign affairs specialist for the

liberal New Democratic Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/MASHAT, MOHAMMED AL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 4, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SCREENING OF REFUGEES `A GAME,' ACTIVIST SAYS

BYLINE: Washington Post News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 236 words


Joseph Seraphin was among the lucky ones.

The young Haitian student was allowed into the United States after

persuading U.S. immigration officers that the military knew he was a strong

supporter of ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide and could be killed if he
returned to the island nation.

Cemeride Desir, 36, a fisherman, was sent back to Haiti on Sunday from a

tent city at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base because he could not persuade

immigration officials that he would be singled out for persecution if he

returned.

Now that forced repatriation to Haiti is a reality for those who fail to

meet the test, the process itself has come under renewed attack by refugee

advocates, who insist that no one should be returned to Haiti until the

situation there is stable.

There is a fine line, refugee advocates say-- if there is a line at all

-- between Seraphin, the political refugee, and Desir, the economic refugee.

"What's political and what's economic? The situation in Haiti is

completely out of control, so how does the United States government decide who
is in danger and who is not?" said Rolande Dorancy, executive director of the
Haitian Refugee Center in Miami. "It is a game they are playing. But it is

game where people can lose their lives."

U.S. officials insist that the screening process effectively filters out

anyone likely to be in danger if returned. They insist there have been no

reprisals against those sent back.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 5, 1988 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 186 words


U.S. SUGAR'S FEARS ALLAYED

by change in judge's order.

U.S. District Judge Thomas F. Hogan in Washington Thursday modified his

interim relief order in a lawsuit that seeks to include cane cutters in an

immigration program that they have been excluded from.

Hogan's modifications will permit the INS, in some cases, to conduct

employment checks and interviews to confirm that an H2-A guest worker

harvested cane for at least 90 days in the year ending May 1, 1986, as

required under the Special Agricultural Workers program.

Hogan also instructed the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to

issue work permits to applicants currently working under the H2-A program only
after their contracts expire.

Under the order issued in June, the INS was instructed to accept

preliminary applications and issue work authorization permits to cane cutters
who may be eligible for residency under the SAW program created in 1986.

U.S. Sugar and the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association intervened in

the suit to address the court on their fears that the order would encourage

guest workers to leave the fields before the harvest is over.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 5, 1988 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MIGRANT WORKER TOILS TO BUILD A BETTER LIFE

BYLINE: By MARK CALVEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS DAY 1; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 347 words


During the harvest season, Leroy Lovell, one of thousands of migrant

workers who harvest South Florida crops, can make about $50 a day picking 100
boxes of grapefruit.

But during the off-season, Lovell is faced with dimmer prospects.

This year he found work preparing for the harvest at Callery-Judge Grove

in Loxahatchee. The 43-year-old Lovell spends his day painting ladders,

washing equipment and other odd jobs while waiting for the harvest to begin

next month.

The Barbados native came to the United States in 1982 to harvest sugar

cane under an immigration program that allows agricultural employers to bring in
foreign workers when the government certifies there is not enough domestic labor
to do the job.

After harvesting cane in 1982, Lovell traveled from field to field picking a
variety of vegetables including tomatoes, cucumbers and green peppers. He

said he has been picking oranges and grapefruit at Callery-Judge Grove for

about five years.

But Lovell, like so many of his fellow migrant workers eligible for

amnesty under the 1986 immigration law, plans to someday leave the fields for
year-round employment in the hotel or restaurant industry.

"Due to the amnesty program, I'll be able to settle down," Lovell said.

For the time being, however, harvesting citrus is "the only way to make a

living," he said.

But the low pay and seasonal nature of migrant work makes it the least

desirable job, according to The Jobs Rated Almanac, which ranked the job last
among 250 occupations.

In addition to manual labor, Lovell can speak to a limited extent in the native
languages of other migrant workers from the Caribbean, which helps

management communicate with the workers, said Callery-Judge spokesman Jim

Davis.

Lovell keeps in touch with his family in Barbados and has a girlfriend in
Florida.

MIGRANT WORKER

JOB RANK: No. 250

PAY: $2,650/15,900

REQUIREMENTS: Physical stamina is needed for spending long hours in the

field, bending, lifting and carrying. Migrant work is highly seasonal, and

workers frequently must travel from one area to another following the harvest
season for different crops.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  It's a Living / Information box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(C)
 PHOTO BY MARK CALVEY Leroy Lovell, right, mixes paint for equipment as part of
his preseason work at Callery-Judge Grove in Loxahatchee.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1988 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 14, 1989 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

15 ARRESTED IN PHONY CHECK RING

BYLINE: By TERESA LANE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Fifteen people accused of being members of a nationwide check

counterfeiting ring that allegedly bilked mom-and-pop grocery stores out of

more than $10 million were arrested in North Carolina Tuesday after St. Lucie
County deputies received a tip that the ring had moved from Fort Pierce to

North Carolina.

The ring, which recruits illegal immigrants to pose as migrant workers

and supplies them with fake copies of payroll checks, purportedly began in

California in 1981 and moved to Florida this year, authorities said.

Based in Fort Pierce this spring, the ring allegedly passed more than 200
counterfeit payroll checks in South Florida issued in the names of a Palm

Beach Gardens construction company and a Fort Pierce citrus company.

After the arrest of three Fort Pierce men last month, deputies learned

that the group's suspected ringleader and several followers had moved north

along the migrant workers' harvest circuit to Warsaw, N.C.

Acting in conjunction with the Secret Service, North Carolina State

Bureau of Investigation and numerous local agencies, St. Lucie deputies

arrested 15 Mexican men in Warsaw-- five of whom are alleged to have operated in
Fort Pierce.

The men reportedly cashed about 30 checks totaling $20,000 in North

Carolina on June 2 and June 9 before they were arrested. In addition to 129

blank counterfeit checks bearing the name of "Carolina Turkeys," a factory

in Warsaw, authorities confiscated $6,564.82, a typewriter and a car.

St. Lucie sheriff's Detective Mike Reaves said the group used an

elaborate printing press to copy the payroll checks and printed false names

and addresses on the documents.

"The Mexicans went to stores that cater to migrant workers so no one

would suspect them," Reaves said. "The cash we found will be used to pay

back some of the stores in North Carolina, but since we didn't find any down

here the store owners in Florida may be out of luck."

In addition to the three men arrested in Fort Pierce on May 23, the

following suspects were arrested Tuesday:

Carlos N. Fuentes, 28; Alonzo Mesa, 33; Jell R. Arrera, 34; Julio S.

Ortega, 24; Carlos Z. Ibarra, 24; Goel Flores Jiminez, 22; Pablo Tirado Lora,
21; Leonel P. Medina, 23; Hector M. Contreras, 19; Joel Medina, 22; Mario

Contreras, 30; Ventura Castaneda, 22; Robert Soto Rodriquez, 24; Oscar Omar

Salmeron, 21; and Omar Luna Guzman, 22.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 17, 1989 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CITRUS GROWERS MAY NEED FOREIGN CREWS FOR HARVEST

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 670 words


A Lake Wales-based company that provides labor for citrus growers has

applied to the federal government for permission to hire 942 foreign workers

at harvest time, demonstrating concern that Florida's citrus industry will

have a labor shortage.

"We're trying to cover ourselves," said Larry Mullis, personnel director

of Oakley Brothers Inc., the harvest contracting company that filed the

application. "We're anticipating a problem because the crew leaders who have

gotten workers for us for years say they're experiencing a shortage now."

If the application is approved, it would be the first time in more than 20 years
that foreign workers would pick Florida citrus legally.

Under federal law, farmers can hire foreign laborers only when domestic

workers can't be found, said Al French, labor specialist with the U.S.

Department of Agriculture. The farmers obtain visas for the foreign laborers

under the U.S. government's H-2A program, which stipulates that workers return
to their countries when the specified harvest period is finished. Growers who
want to take part in the program must give the government 60 days' advance

notice.

NO SHORTAGE-- YET

Most Florida growers are not experiencing a labor shortage now, but many

are worried that early next year, when much of the crop is ready to be

harvested, they will suddenly find they have too few workers to handle the

load, said Ernie Neff, a spokesman for Florida Citrus Mutual, an industry

association.

"The shortage hasn't hit yet but when it does, it may be too late," he

said.

Oakley Brothers has applied for permission to hire foreign workers now

because they don't want to be caught off guard in January, Mullis said.

"If we can't get harvest workers, we don't get paid," he said.

A labor shortage could easily arise this year if cold weather moves toward the
state and threatens the citrus crop, said Douglas C. Bournique, executive vice
president of the Indian River Citrus League.

"That's when everyone wants to get their crop off the trees at the same

time," he said.

Florida citrus growers anticipated a major labor problem last season, too, but
Neff said only a few spot shortages occurred.

Oakley Brothers sought permission to hire foreign workers last season but
withdrew its request when it found enough local labor, Mullis said.

MORE APPLICATIONS EXPECTED

"As the labor supply gets tighter, we will see an increasing number of

applications," French said. "Many of them will be making preparations for

something they hope they won't need."

To qualify for the H-2A program, growers must provide foreign workers with
housing and transportation to and from the United States. They are also

required to provide the workers with food at a low cost, French explained.

Before visas are granted, employers have to try to recruit domestically.

Foreign workers have not been used legally by the citrus industry since

the mid-1960s, French said. But many growers have admitted they were using

illegal aliens as part of their labor force, he said.

The success of recent immigration reform, which provided greater

enforcement of immigration laws while offering amnesty to illegal aliens, has
resulted in a diminishing farm labor force. Farmers don't want to risk being

caught with illegal foreign workers, and former farm laborers are leaving

agriculture-related jobs.

SERVICE JOBS LURE WORKERS

Many of them have moved into the service sector, working in the tourism

industry, Neff said. Construction work is also more attractive to many former
citrus harvesters, according to French.

"That kind of work is easier, and it's year-round," Mullis said.

The problem has led the U.S. Department of Agriculture to encourage

farmers to make more efficient use of their available labor, French said. Some
have organized labor exchanges, in which they keep harvesters working as many
days as possible by moving them around several farms in an area.

"But in Florida that's difficult because in the spring, you have

vegetables, citrus, strawberries and watermelon all coming in to be harvested at
the same time," French said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 29, 1989 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN CITRUS LABOR IS PROTESTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


A group of Florida farm workers marched outside a meeting of federal labor

officials Tuesday to protest a citrus company's plan to import hundreds of

foreign pickers at rock-bottom wages.

"It's nothing but legalized slave labor as far as we're concerned," said

farm labor organizer Fernando Cuevas, who led the protest. "There's no reason to
bring in foreign workers when we've already got too many American

workers."

At issue is the federal government's H-2 program, which allows foreign

workers into the country to pick crops when domestic labor is in short supply.

OAKLEY BROTHERS' REQUEST

The program was started under the Immigration Reform and Control Act in

1987 after farmer complaints that legalization of many alien workers in recent
years had depleted their labor pool.

Oakley Brothers Inc., a Lake Wales-based grower, has petitioned the

government to bring in 942 workers from Mexico in January to pick citrus at a
prevailing rate of 65 cents a box.

"Sixty-five cents is an absolute minimum rate that Oakley wants to pay to
everyone," said farm worker Tirso Moreno. "It's not that there's not enough

American workers-- there's just not enough who will work for 65 cents a box."
Moreno said other growers are paying seasonal rates ranging from $1.03 to $1.23
a box.

Cuevas claimed that growers such as Oakley are seeking foreign workers who will
agree to substandard wages and working conditions, which he said

undermines domestic workers and puts more Americans on welfare.

HARD LOOK BY CONFEREES

Some of the conferees who oversee the H-2 program said every effort will

be made to protect domestic workers.

"For us to approve Oakley's petition, it has to be demonstrated that

they've exhausted their domestic supply of workers," said Carol Gaudin,

Atlanta regional administrator for the U.S. Department of Labor's Employment

Standards Administration.

Gaudin said a decision will be made on Oakley's petition up to 12 days

before the January picking date when workers are needed.

The application by Oakley is the first by a citrus or vegetable grower in
Florida under the federal program. H-2 workers from Jamaica have been used the
past few season for cutting sugar cane.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1989 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 1, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CULTIVATE A BETTER LIFE FOR U.S. FARMWORKERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 416 words


Farmworkers are invisible to most of us. We occasionally see them as we

drive by the fields in air-conditioned cars, but we're not really concerned as
long as we have vegetables, fruit and sugar.

A recent court case also provided a glimpse of their life. Nineteen

farmworkers were crammed into a van that flipped on its way to the groves. Ten
badly injured workers had to go to the U.S. Supreme Court-- not to win

damages, but to win just the right to sue the fruit company they worked for.

But there are workers excluded from sharing even in that.

U.S. agriculture brings in more than 20,000 foreign "guest workers" a

year. They cut sugar cane and toil at other jobs under conditions too brutal

for most Americans to accept or even imagine. Rob Williams, a lawyer with

Florida Rural Legal Services, says that despite federal guidelines, guest

workers have virtually no rights. They "don't have much recourse to any court
because they're subject to being blacklisted." He says workers are afraid to

seek legal help because "as bad as it is here, it's usually better than

getting $200 a year in Jamaica."

Mr. Williams claims that conditions for all farmworkers are kept poor so

that the guest worker program can be expanded to citrus and other crops.

Growers, he says, would rather import disposable foreign workers than provide
decent jobs for Americans. Walter Kates, manager of the Labor Division of the
Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, says, "We have a shortage of legal

agricultural workers now." And he predicts the problem will get worse,

requiring more foreign workers. But he denies growers have conspired to create
poor conditions. He says farmworkers average $6 or $7 an hour, but

acknowledges that the seasonal nature of farm work leaves many in poverty.

"That's the nature of the beast."

Mr. Kates also admits that agriculture has failed to provide basic

benefits-- health insurance, retirement. He says growers in Florida and states
to the north want to create a system of "shared" employees that will provide

a year-round job and benefits for farmworkers. He adds quickly: "I don't want to
be overly optimistic. We're still in our infancy on this."

But it's worth a try. More than that, it's worth a commitment. Foreign

workers may always be part of the solution. But the goal should be to offer

American farmworkers a better life. Mr. Kates says, "We owe that to our

employees." And the rest of us should remember what the food on our plates

costs the farmworkers who provide it. We owe that to them.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWER CHARGED WITH HOLDING MIGRANTS AGAINST THEIR WILL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A commercial tree grower who allegedly imprisoned migrant workers, forced

them to work 16-hour days and shaved their heads has surrendered to

authorities.

Edwin Ives, 53, turned himself in Friday in Los Angeles after three of his
foremen and an alleged alien smuggler were arrested earlier in the day at his
49-acre Ventura County ranch.

A federal complaint charges Ives with keeping about 150 undocumented

workers, some for as long as nine months, during a three-year period at the

ranch, where eucalyptus trees and other ornamental plants are grown. Among the
accusations: that the workers even had to pay for the haircuts when their

heads were shaved.

Ives denied the allegations through his lawyer.

The defendants and Ives' company, Griffith-Ives Co., are charged with

conspiracy to deprive people of their civil rights, assistant U.S. attorney

Crol Gillam said.

According to the complaint, the aliens were smuggled from Mexico and

promised good wages. But when they arrived, they found they could not leave

the ranch, which is surrounded by a 7-foot chain-link and plastic glass fence.
"It was slave labor," said Fernando Maldonado, 49. "We could not leave.

We realized we had entered the mouth of the wolf."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 31, 1990 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LABOR REJECTS 1ST APPLICATION FOR CANE CREWS;
PROTECTIVE WORDING LEFT OUT

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 338 words


The initial application to hire 5,519 foreign workers for the sugar cane

harvest in South Florida has been rejected by the U.S. Department of Labor

because it left out key language that advocacy groups say protects the

workers, an official said Monday.

But an amended application, filed by the Florida Fruit and Vegetable

Association on behalf of five sugar producers, will be accepted for

consideration, said Gene Caso, a representative of the Department of Labor in
Atlanta.

The first application to hire the "guest workers," called H-2A workers,

was rejected because it deleted specific language that tells cane cutters

what's expected of them, said Tom Bruening, a Washington representative of the
Labor Department's employment and training administration, which oversees the
H-2A program.

The language, which has been included in the job description since the

1970s, tells workers they are expected to cut an average of 8 tons of sugar

cane a day.

"It's the only part of the job order that gives a hint as to what the job
involves," said attorney Rob Williams of Florida Rural Legal Services."

Williams said he thinks growers wanted to get rid of the language because it has
been cited and used as evidence in pending lawsuits that charge sugar

growers with underpaying H-2A workers.

"Rather than conform to regulations, the growers want to change the

regulations," he said.

Florida Rural Legal Services also objected to the deletion because the

language serves as a productivity standard, protecting workers from being

fired without just cause, Williams said.

But Walter Kates, manager of the labor division of the Florida Fruit and

Vegetable Association, said tonnage is only one way of determining pay, and

the language never was intended to be a productivity standard.

Breuning said growers wanted the language deleted because it's misleading. He
said growers don't weigh the amount of cane each cutter harvests.

But Williams said growers estimate fairly accurately the number of tons of cane
per acre and can determine how much a worker has cut.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 23, 1990 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TANGLED PAPER WORK HOLDS UP HIRING OF FOREIGN NURSES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Washington paper-work delay has aggravated Florida's nursing shortage by

preventing hiring of foreign nurses.

"We have nurses in the pipeline waiting to come over," said Deborah

Robinson, coordinator of nurse recruitment at Miami's Jackson Memorial

Hospital.

"It's really tying our hands."

The problem is that the U.S. Labor Department can't adopt new regulations on
foreign nurses until President Bush signs the Immigration Act of 1990. Bush
hasn't yet received his copy of the act, White House officials told a Miami

newspaper.

There are plenty of foreign nurses willing to help ease the staff

shortages, of U.S.-trained staff, say frustrated say hospital officials who

haven't been able to hire any new ones since Sept. 1.

"We tell them we're very interested," said Desiree Ramirez, a nurse

recruiter at Mount Sinai Medical Center.

"But I don't want to offer anything to anybody until it opens up

again."

Florida's nursing shortage is more acute than the national one.

A 1989 study by the Florida Hospital Association showed that hospitals

across the state had a 16.3 percent vacancy rate for registered nurse

positions, compared with 12.7 percent nationally.

In South Florida, the rates were higher, ranging to 21.1 percent for

Broward County, 19.6 percent in Dade and Monroe counties and 19.1 percent in

Palm Beach County.

The current holdup stems from last year's passage of the Immigration

Nursing Relief Act, allowing thousands of foreign nurses to become permanent

residents after their visas run out.

The law placed new conditions on the hiring of foreign nurses as of Sept. 1.

Hospitals must show the Labor Department they are making efforts to

recruit U.S. nurses and that the foreign nurses are needed to avoid

disruptions of medical care.

But the Labor Department can't spell out how hospitals can meet the

guidelines until after Bush signs the bill.

"As soon as it is signed into law, the regulations should be published

soon thereafter," said Bonnie Friedman, a Labor Department spokeswoman.

Bush is expected to sign the bill after returning from his Middle East

trip.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 11, 1991 Monday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

HIRING OF FOREIGN FIREFIGHTER ANGERS MAYOR;
PERUVIAN AMONG 16 CHOSEN BY BOYNTON

BYLINE: By JOE CAPOZZI, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


Carlos Reyes doesn't know Mayor Gene Moore. But because America is at war

and in a recession, the rookie firefighter from Peru is feeling some heat from
the mayor.

Reyes, 33, applied for a job as a firefighter this summer, passed all

required tests with high marks and was one of 16 people hired from a field of
700.

The concern, according to Moore, is that Reyes is a Peruvian citizen and not a
United States citizen.

"He's not the problem. He's got a job, and good luck to him," said

Moore, who six months ago criticized commissioners for appointing a Guatemalan
woman to a city advisory board.

"I just can't see how we could not find out of 200 (finalists), 16 tax-

paying American citizens who were not as equally qualified. I mean, it

defies belief," Moore said. "How's that going to look to our boys in Desert

Storm? The next thing they're gonna do is hire an Iraqi."

Fire Chief Ed Allen said Reyes, like many of the 16 rookies, had no

firefighting experience when he was hired. But a captain who runs the

department's training division said Reyes excelled at all required tests.

"Hey, the guy scored a 97 on the written exam. He had the highest score

of all the applicants on the physical test," Capt. Bill Gulbrandsen said.

"He's definitely qualified."

State law requires police officers to be U.S. citizens, but no such law

exists for firefighters.

Reyes, who started work last week, said he has applied for U.S.

citizenship but was not sure how long the process would take. He did not want to
comment further because he is still on probationary status as a new hire.

If Moore's comments "create a hostile working environment" for Reyes,

the firefighter might have grounds for a lawsuit, said Jim Green, chief

attorney for the Palm Beach County American Civil Liberties Union.

While Moore's comments have sparked mixed reaction in the community, they were
barely noticed by many firefighters.

"It's a subject that's never come up," said Mike Smollen, spokesman for

the International Association of Firefighters Local 1891. "I worked one shift
with the fellow and I don't see any resentment or negative reaction at all.

This guy's been well-received."

One man who was not chosen but who said he was among 23 finalists said he agreed
with Moore. "It's bad enough he was chosen over me, but the fact he's

not even an American citizen makes it even worse," said the man, who asked

that his name not be used.

City Manager J. Scott Miller, who makes the final hiring decisions,

refused to comment.

Marina Haberman, the Guatemalan woman who came under fire from Moore in

August, was upset when she learned about Moore's latest comments. "It brings

back the bad memories, but (Moore) has the right to comment the same as we

have the right to serve," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran LO.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 10, 1991 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. REJECTS SUGAR FIRMS' APPLICATIONS FOR CUTTERS

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 669 words


The U.S. Department of Labor has rejected applications filed on behalf of

South Florida sugar companies to hire foreign workers for the harvest that

begins in the fall, saying the job descriptions contained in the applications
fail to meet department regulations.

But in what could become a test of wills, the sugar industry intends to

fight part of the Labor Department's ruling and has filed an appeal, an

industry representative said.

The Labor Department's decision comes less than a month after officials

warned sugar growers at a meeting in West Palm Beach that enforcement of laws
governing the foreign-worker program would be tightened.

It also comes at a time when major South Florida sugar companies,

including U.S. Sugar Corp. and ones owned by the Fanjul family of Palm Beach,
have been promising better living and working conditions for the men who come
from the Caribbean to cut cane.

In a letter dated July 1, Daniel L. Lowry, the regional administrator of

the Labor Department's Employment and Training Administration in Atlanta

notified the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association of the decision. The

association files the applications to import foreigners-- also called H-2A

workers-- for most of the sugar companies. A similar letter was sent to U.S.

Sugar Corp., which files its own application.

"Your application is unacceptable for consideration on the grounds that

the availability of U.S. workers cannot be tested because the benefits, wage

rates, and/or working conditions do not meet criteria established in the

regulations," Lowry wrote.

The H-2A workers can be hired only after the Labor Department determines

that domestic workers are not available. Companies must offer the same wages,
benefits and working conditions to the foreign workers as the domestic

workers.

Included with Lowry's letter was a six-page "checklist" giving detailed

explanations of why the applications were rejected and how they should be

modified.

The most controversial part of the checklist-- and the part the sugar

industry intends to challenge -- is the requirement that the applications

include a statement saying workers harvesting cane are expected to cut 8 tons
per day. The statement has been included since the 1970s, and is deemed a

productivity standard that indicates to workers what is expected of them.

The applications also must include the prevailing piece rate (a minimum of 7
cents per foot) for cutting seed cane, the department said.

"Without the eight tons, there's nothing objective in the order that

establishes what the worker has to do," said farmworker advocate Rob

Williams, an attorney for Florida Rural Legal Services.

But Walter Kates, labor relations director for the Florida Fruit and

Vegetable Association, said the eight tons was never intended as a

productivity standard.

The argument is identical to one that arose last year, when the sugar

industry first tried to omit the "eight tons per day" language. The

Department of Labor objected to the omission then, too.

"We didn't appeal it last year because we didn't have enough time,"

Kates said. "But the telegram went out to the administrative law judge

yesterday (Monday), and this is supposed to be an expedited process."

The tonnage requirement has been cited and used as evidence in pending

lawsuits that charge sugar growers with underpaying H-2A workers.

Farmworker advocates say growers estimate fairly accurately the number of tons
of cane per acre and can determine how much a worker has cut. They say

sugar growers want the "eight ton" language removed to show that it has no

bearing on wages.

But growers say groups such as Legal Services want the language to remain so
they can try to use it as ammunition in the lawsuits.

Other modifications requested by the Labor Department "are more technical than
anything else," and the industry will comply with them, Kates said.

The sugar companies, which have steadily increased the amount of cane they
harvest mechanically, have asked for authorization to import about 1,800 fewer
cane cutters than they did last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 10, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE: SUGAR FIRMS MUST DISCLOSE OUTPUT EXPECTATIONS FOR HARVESTERS

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 532 words


South Florida's sugar companies failed to comply with U.S. Department of

Labor wage regulations in their applications to hire foreign workers for the

upcoming harvest season, an administrative law judge ruled Monday.

In his 16-page opinion, District Chief Judge E. Earl Thomas affirmed an

earlier ruling made by the Labor Department that the job description submitted
for Labor Department approval must specify that a sugar cane cutter is

expected to cut an average of 8 tons of harvest cane per day.

The ruling is considered significant because the tonnage requirement has

been cited and used as evidence in pending lawsuits that charge sugar growers
with underpaying the foreign cane cutters, also known as H-2A workers. One of
those cases-- a class action suit -- is scheduled to go to trial next summer.

Clewiston-based U.S. Sugar Corp. appealed the Labor Department's decision,
issued in July, and argued last month during a three-day hearing in Miami that
the 8-ton language was not needed because it is not, nor was it ever intended to
be, a job productivity standard.

But in his opinion, Thomas wrote that the 8-ton language allows a worker

to determine what standard he would need to maintain to be considered a

satisfactory worker. Although U.S. Sugar maintained at the hearing that it

does not have any productivity standard for the harvesting of cane, Thomas

said in his opinion that he "finds this position unlikely."

"Accordingly, the Court holds that the 8-ton language is a productivity

standard and thus, is a material term and condition of employment which must

be included in the job offer," he wrote.

The administrative law judge speaks in such a ruling as and for the U.S.

Secretary of Labor, attorneys said. Any further appeals by the sugar companies
would have to be made in federal court.

Thomas also ruled that the sugar companies will no longer be permitted to pay
seed cane cutters on a task rate basis-- a system the judge said "has the
potential for rate tampering."

Under a task rate system, each row of cane is assigned a price. At the end of
the day the portion of the row cut by the worker is measured and the

worker's daily earnings are computed as the sum of the row price times the

portion of the row cut.

Thomas ruled that instead of basing wages on a task rate, the sugar

companies will have to pay seed cane cutters either the prevailing piece rate --
a minimum of 7-cents a foot-- or the prevailing minimum hourly rate

-- currently set for sugar cane by the Labor Department at $5.38 an hour.

Seed cane differs from harvest cane in that it is not processed and

refined into sugar. It is cut in order to be replanted for future crops.

On two other issues of contention-- one relating to who was eligible for

company housing and the other on the definition of quitting time-- Thomas

agreed with the sugar companies and ruled against the Department of Labor.

But attorneys and advocates for the cane cutters said those were minor

issues compared to the implications of the wage and productivity rulings.

The 8-ton ruling, for example, is very significant for several pending

lawsuits and "far outweighs anything else in the opinion," said Florida

Rural Legal Services attorney Rob Williams.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran South and Lake O

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 10, 1991 Tuesday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

CANE-CUTTER WAGE RULING IS UPHELD;
COMPANIES MUST SPECIFY 8-TON RULE

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 677 words


South Florida's sugar companies failed to comply with U.S. Department of

Labor wage regulations in their applications to hire foreign workers for the

upcoming harvest season, an administrative law judge ruled Monday.

In his 16-page opinion, District Chief Judge E. Earl Thomas affirmed an

earlier ruling by the Labor Department that the job description submitted for
Labor Department approval must specify that a sugar cane cutter is expected to
cut an average of 8 tons of harvest cane a day.

The ruling is considered significant because the tonnage requirement has

been cited and used as evidence in pending lawsuits that charge sugar growers
with underpaying the foreign cane cutters, also known as H-2A workers. One of
those cases -- a class-action suit -- is scheduled to go to trial next summer.

Clewiston-based U.S. Sugar Corp. appealed the Labor Department's decision,
issued in July, and argued last month during a three-day hearing in Miami that
the 8-ton language was not needed because it is not, nor was it ever intended to
be, a job productivity standard.

But in his opinion, Thomas wrote that the 8-ton language allows a worker

to determine what standard he would need to maintain to be considered a

satisfactory worker. Although U.S. Sugar maintained at the hearing that it

does not have any productivity standard for the harvesting of cane, Thomas

said in his opinion that he "finds this position unlikely."

"Accordingly, the Court holds that the 8-ton language is a productivity

standard and thus, is a material term and condition of employment which must

be included in the job offer," he wrote.

The administrative law judge speaks for the U.S. secretary of labor in

such a ruling, attorneys said. Any further appeal by the sugar companies would
have to be made in federal court.

Thomas also ruled that the sugar companies no longer will be permitted to pay
seed cane cutters on a task rate basis.

Under a task rate system, each row of cane is assigned a price. At the end of
the day the portion of the row cut by the worker is measured and the

worker's daily earnings are computed as the sum of the row price times the

portion of row cut.

Thomas ruled that instead of basing wages on a task rate, the sugar

companies will have to pay seed cane cutters either the prevailing piece rate --
a minimum of 7 cents a foot -- or the prevailing minimum hourly rate

-- currently set for sugar cane by the Labor Department at $5.38 an hour.

Seed cane differs from harvest cane in that it is not processed and

refined into sugar. It is cut in order to be replanted for future crops.

On two other issues of contention -- one relating to who was eligible for
company housing and the other on the definition of quitting time -- Thomas

agreed with the sugar companies and ruled against the Labor Department.

But attorneys and advocates for the cane cutters said those were minor

issues compared to the implications of the wage and productivity rulings.

The 8-ton ruling, for example, is very significant for several pending

lawsuits and "far outweighs anything else in the opinion," said Rob

Williams, an attorney with Florida Rural Legal Services.

The case scheduled to go to trial in July -- called the Bygrave case

-- claims that the 8-ton language is a productivity standard. It further

contends that if a worker is expected to cut 8 tons of cane a day, and if a

day is eight hours, then a worker is expected to cut a ton of cane an hour.

The Labor Department's required minimum wage for cane cutters at the time in
question was $5.30 an hour, so according to the lawsuit, workers should

have been paid $5.30 a ton. If a worker cut more than a ton, he should have

been paid more than the $5.30-an-hour wage, the case alleges.

Despite Thomas' ruling, the sugar companies did not concede defeat. Walter
Kates, labor manager for the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association, which

handles applications for H-2A workers for all the sugar companies except U.S.
Sugar, said parts of the judge's opinion on the seed cane issue were

"confusing" and he did not know what action, if any, the industry would

take.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 8, 1991 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMPORTED WORKERS AREN'T CUTTING INTO U.S. EMPLOYMENT

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 168 words


A recent letter concerning sugar cane cutters shows the lack of knowledge

the public has concerning the H-2 program that allows foreign workers to come to
the United States. Many people think that the H-2 program puts Americans

out of work, but that is not correct.

Federal law states that if a company has hired H-2 workers, then that

company must hire any American worker who wants to try to take away a foreign
worker's job. As in any job in the U.S., whether it is welding automobiles in
Detroit, or cutting sugarcane in the Glades, the worker will have to meet

certain performance standards, but the standards for cutting sugar cane are

not impossible to achieve. Cutting cane is not easy, but you do not have to be
superhuman.

Cane cutters' wages average $6.58 an hour, which makes them among the

highest-paid agricultural workers in Palm Beach County. Therefore, anyone can
see that if Florida's unemployment rate is over 8 percent, it is not a result of
the importation of cane cutters.

Wayne A. Boynton

Loxahatchee

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 1986 FILE PHOTO Cane cutters from Jamaica and Barbados arrive at Palm Beach
International Airport.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1991 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 434 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 1990 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GROWER CHARGED WITH HOLDING MIGRANTS AGAINST THEIR WILL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A commercial tree grower who allegedly imprisoned migrant workers, forced

them to work 16-hour days and shaved their heads has surrendered to

authorities.

Edwin Ives, 53, turned himself in Friday in Los Angeles after three of his
foremen and an alleged alien smuggler were arrested earlier in the day at his
49-acre Ventura County ranch.

A federal complaint charges Ives with keeping about 150 undocumented

workers, some for as long as nine months, during a three-year period at the

ranch, where eucalyptus trees and other ornamental plants are grown. Among the
accusations: that the workers even had to pay for the haircuts when their

heads were shaved.

Ives denied the allegations through his lawyer.

The defendants and Ives' company, Griffith-Ives Co., are charged with

conspiracy to deprive people of their civil rights, assistant U.S. attorney

Crol Gillam said.

According to the complaint, the aliens were smuggled from Mexico and

promised good wages. But when they arrived, they found they could not leave

the ranch, which is surrounded by a 7-foot chain-link and plastic glass fence.
"It was slave labor," said Fernando Maldonado, 49. "We could not leave.

We realized we had entered the mouth of the wolf."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1990 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
