
                               1 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1255 words


Cut off jobs to cut off supply of illegals

I couldn't help but be impressed by Tom Gabor's article on the negative effects
of an Arizona-type immigration law being implemented in Florida.

The issue of "reasonable suspicion" opens the door to racial profiling. As Dr.
Gabor points out, this law could have serious economic consequences and take
time that law enforcement could use in dealing with other, more dangerous
crimes. Dr. Gabor's compromise however, only addresses illegal immigrants once
they commit crimes.

Although I support a pathway to citizenship, I believe that illegal immigration
is a problem, and the key reason to sustained levels is the sense in this
country that illegal immigrants can and will find work or can overstay their
visas. Policies like Arizona's can scare people but will only move them to other
parts of the country and hurt areas economically. A pathway to citizenship alone
will not stop illegal immigration.

The 1986 immigration law signed by President Reagan had provisions that were
supposed to punish employers for hiring illegals. As long as people know that
they can find work, even though they are illegal, they will continue to come.
This country has to acknowledge that we have the technology and the know-how to
ensure that important documents cannot be forged, and to put strict penalties on
businesses that hire illegals, knowingly or not.

We have to make it a goal that the incentives to enter illegally are curbed and
eventually eliminated. Even if we had the recourse to conduct a mass
deportation, or a mass "amnesty," the problem will remain if the incentives to
enter illegally remain.

BORIS F. BASTIDAS

Boca Raton

Pitts' allegory dead-on

Leonard Pitts' little allegory on stupidity in America ("Evolving backward")
meshes perfectly with a piece of wisdom I was given in a political science class
many years ago: "Do not attribute to malicious intent what can be more readily
explained by stupidity." That and "follow the money" have served to explain so
much of life's mysteries for me.

DAVID SPIELBERG

Palm Beach Gardens

Tragic DUI case is not for retributionists to get revenge

The letter about the editorial regarding the Paul Krommendyk tragedy eloquently
makes the case against lengthy prison sentences for youthful first-time
offenders. DUI death cases are always horrendous in terms of their impact on the
victims and their families. And usually, such as here, they also are horrendous
in terms of their impact on the perpetrator and his family.

Sadly, many will not share the letter-writer's empathy for young Beruch Yonus
Zegeye. Many, as The Post did, will chastise the six-year prison sentence as too
lenient. These are the retributionists, those who view criminal justice only in
terms of its authority to exact punishment and revenge.

The somewhat analogous Kaitlin Kazanjian case comes to mind. Referenced in the
editorial, it was another case of youthful irresponsibility and an automobile
combining to produce devastation (Kaitlin's death). At that time, many in our
community, including police officers in court, lobbied for a maximum sentence
for 18-year-old Carlos Pozo, who got 51/2 years.

I began the practice and study of law in the '70s, and in those days there was
some focus on the rehabilitation and deterrence of criminal justice. Six years
in prison for young Zegeye will accomplish little, if anything, in terms of
rehabilitation and deterrence. He and his family, as the writer points out,
already are scarred for life. And, unfortunately, kids will still party too much
on occasion and make tragic, foolish judgments.

Nevertheless, many will clamor that Zegeye should have "had the book thrown at
him." Vengeance is their only desire; thank God they're not the judges.

GARY M. CRIST

Palm Beach Gardens

Lake Worth's dog park a benefit, if critic would notice

This in response to the letter "Dog park? Lake Worth knee-deep in waste now." I
live right on Bryant Park and own a dog. I am one of many who enjoy the park
with my dog on a daily basis. The people who have dogs and frequent the park
have a close community relationship. To say that these people don't pick up
after their dogs is false. We take pride in leaving the park better off than
when we got there.

A dog park makes sense. Dog parks allow dogs to exercise and socialize in a safe
environment. Dog parks allow the dogs to run free and play while not infringing
on the rights of other residents, such as joggers, small children, and people
who may be afraid of dogs. Dog parks also provide an outlet for dog owners or
anyone else who would like to enjoy the animals. If the dogs poop, it will be
inside a fenced-in area. Dog parks will bring in people from outside the city
who might enjoy a nice meal at a local restaurant.

For the people who have a problem with the dogs playing at the park and their
owners socializing, I invite you to get off your balcony, come down one evening,
introduce yourself, get to know these people and their dogs, and you might
change your mind.

JEFF STEPHENS

Lake Worth

Santorum's ill child hasn't raised his empathy level

I am sympathetic to the plight of former Sen. Rick Santorum's youngest child
("Mining the social issues," George Will, Feb. 4). I am a mother of five and a
grandmother of 10, and wish her only blessings.

But I am bewildered by the fact that both Mr. Santorum and Mr. Will, so
dedicated to a pro-life agenda, would be so against the Obama health care plan,
which would allow for the equal treatment of children born into less fortunate
circumstances. Happily, Mrs. Santorum can remain at home and home-school her
kids. Happily, she can get the best care money can buy for her daughter.

With abortion rates rising in this tragic economy, one would think that these
two men would be seeking ways for the jobless, homeless and those hanging on by
their fingernails to live more humanely instead of beating the tired drum of
divisive social, issues -- "Guns, God and Fear." How about Jobs, Justice and
yes, Hope, guys. Oops. Isn't that the Democratic platform?

PATRICIA RORKE

Ocean Ridge

Parents are first, foremost line of defense for education

When I read the article about a school for very young children, in which the
mother of a 2-year-old "chuckled that her daughter pretty much watches TV all
day," I silently screamed, "Child abuse!" I hope this unfortunate little girl's
future school teachers won't be blamed for not being able to teach her how to
read.

My next tirade is directed at the mother of a fifth-grade charter school student
who is apparently doing better in that school than in the previous public school
because the charter school "demands you do your homework" and requires more
parental involvement. What does this mother think a public school homework
assignment means? Students won't do their homework unless it is demanded of
them? And parents aren't involved in their kids' schools unless more involvement
is offered?

I have a passion for education and respect all schools: public, charter,
private, parochial or home-school. But the cure for better-educated students
will never be more money, more tests, smaller class sizes or different kinds of
schools. The answer to better-educated students is screaming in our faces:
parents, grandparents, aunts, sisters, uncles, someone at home who holds that
young student accountable, limits TV, tries to establish a daily reading habit,
makes sure the homework gets done and sends that child off to school prepared to
make the priceless gift of education really count.

PAT H. JOHNSON

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COMPB  TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher
The Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing andmust
include the writer's name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred length is
a maximum of 200 words. E-mail: letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the
Editor,The Palm Beach Post, P.O. Box 24700,West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700
Fax:(561) 820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION:
The news you need, the analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you value.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Show me your papers' upheld in Arizona case

BYLINE: By Dara Kam Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1141 words


Tallahassee -- The U.S. Supreme Court issued a split decision on Arizona's
immigration law, striking down three parts but leaving intact the "show me your
papers" provision that was the centerpiece of the nation's most sweeping
immigration law.

The justices ruled that Arizona did not have the authority to create state
criminal statutes targeting illegal immigrants, striking down parts of the law
that allowed police officers to detain suspected illegal immigrants without a
warrant, banned illegal immigrants from seeking work in Arizona and required
them to register with the U.S. government.

But the 5-3 decision let stand the portion requiring state and local law
enforcement officers to check the immigration status of someone they have
stopped or detained if they have "reasonable suspicion" to believe that person
is in the country illegally.

That decision could lead to a "show me your papers" bill being proposed in the
Florida Legislature, Senate President-designate Don Gaetz said.

"When someone is stopped for a DUI or speeding or anything else, it is customary
for law enforcement officers to check to see if other laws have been broken or
if there are outstanding warrants," said Gaetz, R-Niceville. "So I don't think
it's outside the realm of (reason) that we check to determine whether someone is
breaking federal law with regard to illegal alien status."

Florida immigration advocates, meanwhile, like President Obama, had mixed
reactions to the ruling -- praising the decision to strike down provisions but
voicing concerns about what was left intact.

The court majority said it was too early to rule on the intact portion because
it has not yet been implemented in Arizona.

"There is a basic uncertainty about what the law means and how it will be
enforced," Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in the majority opinion, joined by
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer and
Sonia Sotomayor. Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito
concurred in part and dissented in part, and Justice Elena Kagan recused herself
from the case, presumably because of her work on the issue when she served in
the Justice Department.

The justices specifically said their ruling does not prevent further lawsuits,
already working their way through the courts, after the "show me your papers"
portion goes into effect.

The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta will now decide whether
Georgia's immigration law can go into effect. That law is on hold following a
lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union and other civil and
immigrant rights groups.

After Monday's ruling, the appeals court asked the parties in the case to file
briefs addressing the effect of the ruling by July 6.

Alabama, South Carolina, Indiana and Utah also have enacted laws based on
Arizona's.

"What this decision makes unmistakably clear is that Congress must act on
comprehensive immigration reform," Obama said in a statement. "A patchwork of
state laws is not a solution to our broken immigration system -- it's part of
the problem."

But he added: "No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just
because of what they look like."

Presumptive GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who has defended the Arizona
law, on Monday called the overall immigration situation "a muddle" and
criticized the court's ruling. "I would have preferred to see the Supreme Court
give more latitude to the states, not less," he said.

West Palm Beach immigration attorney Aileen Josephs, a member of West Palm
Beach-based Florida Voices for Immigration Reform, said she was expecting "the
worst" from the court's ruling, and was pleased to see most of the law's
provisions were struck down.

"I'm actually thinking that the tide is turning in the right direction and it's
becoming clear that immigration law belongs in the federal ambit," Josephs said.

J.P. Linstroth, executive director of the Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth,
also praised what he called the court's recognition that immigration issues are
covered primarily by federal law.

But he also said: "It has not been normal practice for police officers or
sheriffs in Palm Beach County to ask immigrants for their legal status, and we
urge this practice (to) continue. We believe if county police officers begin
asking legal status of immigrants, (it) will be harmful to public safety. It
will undermine the generally decent relationships the immigrant communities have
had with the police, who recognize their primary duty is to public safety and
not to enforce federal immigration law."

Gov. Rick Scott and leaders in Florida's GOP-controlled legislature used the
decision to criticize Obama's administration and a gridlocked Congress for
failing to come up with a comprehensive federal immigration plan.

"We ought to have a national immigration policy," Scott said. "I think the
states are having to respond because the federal government hasn't."

Florida legislators in 2011 considered but did not pass an immigration bill
similar to Arizona's and this year did not even consider a similar measure,
although Scott campaigned on the issue and said it was one of his top
legislative priorities.

Incoming House Speaker Will Weatherford, R-Wesley Chapel, said he did not know
whether Florida legislators would address the issue again.

"This gives us some direction ... but I would say that we're not committed to
doing anything yet," he said.

After the decision, the Obama administration rescinded an agreement with Arizona
that gave local officials the power to enforce federal immigration laws, and
U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials said they would not help Arizona
verify the immigration status of suspects with federal officials. The agency
said it would instead focus on its priorities: keeping immigrants from sneaking
into the country and deporting illegal immigrants who are habitual criminals.

Staff writers John Kennedy and Ana Valdes, The Associated Press and The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution contributed to this story.dara_kam@pbpost.com health care
decision DUE thursday

The Supreme Court announced that Thursday will be the last day of its term. That
means a decision in the landmark Affordable Care Act case is almost certain to
be issued Thursday morning.

More on the Supreme Court

»Unlimited corporate political donationsreaffirmed.5A

STRUCK DOWN

Portions of the law that:

Made it a crime for an illegal immigrant to work or seek work in Arizona.

Allowed state and local law enforcement officers to arrest a person without a
warrant if they had probable cause to believe that person was in the U.S.
illegally.

Required immigrants to register with the federal government.

UPHELD

Requirement that officers must verify the immigration status of anyone they've
stopped on another charge, if they have reasonable suspicion that person is in
the U.S. illegally.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  post coverage  u.s. supreme courtPost Coverage: U.S. Supreme Court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona-type proposal topic of local forum ;
 State Rep. Bill Snyder will hold a town meeting Friday in Palm City.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 774 words


The debate over the adoption of an Arizona-type immigration law for Florida is
going on front burners statewide, and Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast
will be one of the hot spots for that discussion.

Friday night, state Rep. Bill Snyder, R-Stuart, will host a town meeting in Palm
City to discuss a bill he plans to introduce to the legislature this spring.
Snyder's district includes part of northern Palm Beach County.

"I expect it to be a forum where people will give me ideas for changes that
might be appropriate for the bill," Snyder said Monday. "It will be a place to
express both support and opposition."

Snyder's measure unequivocally states its aims regarding the number of
undocumented immigrants in Florida.

"The intent of this act is to make attrition through enforcement the public
policy of all state and local government agencies in Florida," the bill states.
"The provisions of this act are intended to work together to discourage and
deter the unlawful entry and presence of aliens and economic activity by persons
unlawfully present in the United States."

The bill contains many of the same controversial proposals included in Arizona
Senate Bill 1070, which bitterly divided the nation last year.

It would allow state, county and local law enforcement officials to question the
immigration status of anyone they stop in pursuit of their duties. It would
allow those officials to detain anyone who is undocumented and hand them over to
federal immigration authorities.

The bill also mandates that all Florida employers use the federal E-Verify
computer system to determine the legal status of anyone they hire. It would
revoke the business licenses of firms that repeat the offense of hiring illegal
workers.

Such a move could have a severe impact on agriculture, one of Florida's most
profitable industries. It also would affect construction, landscaping and
restaurants, which traditionally have employed many undocumented workers.

Snyder's bill also makes it illegal for people not legally in the country to
seek employment in any public place and for would-be employers to stop in those
places to hire workers -- a move that would seriously affect the numerous day
labor sites around South Florida.

Undocumented immigrants arrested for criminal offenses would face enhanced
penalties. For example, a person arrested for a third-degree felony would face
penalties normally applied to perpetrators of second-degree felonies.

Snyder said he has received positive feedback on the bill.

"A theme I hear over and over again is that we are a country where there is rule
of law, and people feel that when you have hundreds of thousands of people in
the state ignoring the law of the land, it just doesn't feel right to them," he
said.

The Martin County Republican Executive Committee is among the supporters.

"It provides a realistic enforcement method for the state," said Mark
Klingensmith, the county GOP chairman.

Klingensmith said the Martin County GOP is concerned about the extra costs that
undocumented immigrants are causing in the local criminal justice and health
care systems.

But Snyder said he also has heard from opponents of the bill. "They are mostly
concerned that the bill will result in racial profiling," he said.

In various places, the 29-page bill prohibits the use of racial and ethnic
identifiers for enforcing the law. But opponents say they don't believe racial
profiling can be avoided once the law is enacted, given the overwhelmingly Latin
character of Florida's undocumented population.

"I'm not sure how he is going to make this work," said Manuel Guerra of
Indiantown, a member of Students Working for Equal Rights, an immigrants rights
organization. "The issue of racial profiling will be very difficult to control.
And a lot of people who have lived here for years, have committed no crimes and
are hoping to someday win legal residence may end up being deported."

At least two other state legislators are expected to present similar
legislation: Rep. Kevin Ambler, R-Tampa, and Sen. Mike Bennett, R-Bradenton.

After the Arizona legislature passed its law in April, the Obama administration
challenged the law, saying the state was usurping the immigration-related duties
of the federal government. A federal judge agreed and blocked parts of the law.

The case is before a U.S. Court of Appeals and is expected to go eventually to
the U.S. Supreme Court. Snyder said the outcome of the Arizona case could
influence where Florida goes with its legislation.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

If you go

What: Town hall meeting on immigration.

When: 6-8 p.m. Friday.

Where: Cummings Library, 2551 S.W. Matheson Ave., Palm City.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PALM BEACH POST CONTINUING COVERAGE  Immigration debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 942 words


Give Florida Arizona-style law, but with protections

I read Monday's editorial, "Arizona's effort doesn't travel," which explained
how tourism in Arizona has dropped dramatically because of the new immigration
law that allows police to check the citizenship status of anyone they stop and
suspect to be an illegal alien.

I do not have a problem with this law. If you want to live in this country, then
come here like every other legal immigrant. Though I understand that this law
caused major financial problems for Arizona, this does not mean that they should
rethink the bill. Instead, something should be done in Washington to back up
this matter to send resources to any state that passes a bill like this.

Florida is considering a similar bill, even with the huge threat of hurting the
state's economy. If this passes in Florida, then I believe that the state will
need federal help to back Florida up in this decision. The state should not have
to go into this and endanger the state's economy as well as the citizens of
Florida. This is a fine law to have around. It just needs to be written in a way
not to not hurt the economy anymore than it already is hurting.

JOHN BENEDICT

Boynton Beach

Arizona immigration law fraught with complications

Is the Florida immigration bill better than the Arizona immigration law
("Arizona's effort doesn't travel")? Former Attorney General Bill McCollum and
state Rep. Bill Snyder, R-Stuart, designed and introduced an bill that they
claim is better than Arizona's.

The bill would obligate Florida law-enforcement agents to inquire about the
immigration status of people they encounter in the pursuit of their duties when
they have a "reasonable suspicion" that those people may be in the country
illegally. Also, it would require Florida judges to increase the sentences of
illegal aliens found guilty of crimes by 50 percent over usual prescribed
sentences.

I contend that the proposed Florida bill will neither improve the illegal
immigrant issue, nor will it benefit Florida's legal citizens. First, the bill
will require additional money to train local law enforcers and process suspected
illegal immigrants. Second, according to studies from the Violence Prevention
Institute, incarcerated immigrants tend to emulate a gang mentality and,
therefore, sympathize with or join gangs while in jail. Third, a great number of
suspected illegal immigrants are legal, so the embittered and harassed suspect,
who is freed, feels bitter toward law enforcement, rather than respectful.

Yes, we need better immigration enforcement, but we don't need another Arizona
immigration law. Instead, the added expense and training should be invested in
existing programs, because they have the track record but need more resources.

WILLIAMSON BATTEAU

Boca Raton

Children still at risk until DCF leadership changes

I have read the stories about the Barahona children found in the truck and the
other children found in the canal and about all the recommendations ("DCF chief
says abuse line has 'call center mentality'"). Sadly, none of the
recommendations published included the dismissal or call for resignation of the
inept David Wilkins, secretary of the Department of Children and Families, or
his assistant secretary for operations, Peter Digre, or his director of Florida
Abuse Hotline, Walter Cook.

These gentlemen are responsible for this tragic loss of innocent lives. I have
not seen a recommendation to immediately review all cases of recent abuse
hot-line calls, especially those investigated by those who investigated the
Barahona complaint. Until this is done, all the children who were subjects of
the complaints are living at risk and may be suffering as you read this letter.

Finally, I am appalled that the only constructive utterance from the governor is
that the agency will have to do more with less. Brilliant.

AARON GOLD

Jupiter

Kudos to PBSC hoopsters

Congratulations to the Palm Beach State College Panthers men's basketball team
for an incredible season. Head coach George "Butch" Estes and his assistant
coaches did a wonderful job with this exceptional team of young men.

They became the Southern Conference champion after defeating Brevard Community
College in Melbourne. To add to the excitement, coach Estes most deservingly was
named the Southern Conference Coach of the Year. As one of their biggest fans, I
enjoyed going to many of the games. It was a thrilling season, and all who
participated should take great pride in their accomplishments.

MAE SAMAL KNOX

Palm Beach

No stretch for government to 'come up' with ways to spend

Re: "5 towns await money from federal grant," March 12: I have often found it
difficult to explain what it is that makes me so disappointed about the attitude
held by politicians and government employees when it comes to spending our
money. And it is our money even when it is a grant.

But Dave Thatcher, Lantana's development services director, whatever that is,
provided me with the perfect explanation with the following quote. It was in
regard to reapplying for a grant after their first grant requesting hybrid
vehicles was turned down. Mr. Thatcher explained the delay in resubmitting the
grant with the following: "It took a couple of months to come up with other ways
to spend the money that met their requirements."

It seems, from my taxpayer's point of view, that to "come up with ways to spend
the money" is a perfect explanation of what government officials, elected or
employed, see as their main purpose in life. And if spending money is the
primary goal, they can be proud of the job they have been doing. Even a drunken
sailor couldn't outspend them.

JOHN BODEN

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COMPB  TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher
The Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing andmust
include the writer's name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred length is
a maximum of 200 words. E-mail: letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the
Editor,The Palm Beach Post, P.O. Box 24700,West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700
Fax:(561) 820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION:
The news you need, the analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you value. THE
CARTOON VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law off table for Fla.Immigration ;
 As the session winds down, immigration legislation stalls.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


An Arizona-style immigration law is off the table for Florida, and the chances
for any immigration bill passing this session appear unlikely after the Florida
Senate dashed hopes for a crackdown on Tuesday.

"It's getting late in the game," said Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, sponsor of
the House immigration overhaul, which was closer to an Arizona-style plan than
any of several Senate proposals. "We're running out of process time."

But Subhash Kateel, state organizer for the "We Are Florida" campaign that has
brought thousands of immigrants, some undocumented, to the capital during the
past two weeks to protest the measures, remained skeptical about assertions that
the measures were dead.

"I keep hearing that. We won't believe it until it's at the morgue with an
autopsy," he said.

On Tuesday afternoon, many of those immigrants held hands in the public gallery
and watched the most emotional debate of the session so far, as Rules Committee
Chairman John Thrasher, R-St. Augustine, and Budget Committee Chairman J.D.
Alexander, R-Lakeland, faced off in the Senate on an amendment that would have
fined businesses for hiring workers who had immigrated to the state illegally.

Thrasher suggested such a measure might have prevented the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001.

"I will remind everybody in here that 10 of the 19 terrorists that attacked our
country that were directed by Osama bin Laden to do that lived in the state of
Florida," he said. "I wish we had had an E-Verify system because some of them
were working. We might have saved the lives of 3,000 Americans."

But Alexander, a citrus grower, responded with an impassioned speech opposed to
the federal verification system and sympathetic to farmworkers who have worked
for his families for generations.

He said the federal government's inaction on immigration may be bringing
political pressure from tea party activists, but it shouldn't cause the state
lawmakers to make poor decisions.

"Quit all these one-sided political arguments," said Alexander, who is
term-limited out of office next year. "This is not our problem and we're having
this problem put on our shoulders and I resent it. And I resent it because we're
asked to choose between hard-working people and somebody's uninformed
knowledge."

Arguing against Thrasher's proposal, Alexander, who said he uses E-Verify on
employees who work directly for him, said he could not find enough legal
immigrants -- or other workers -- to pick his blueberry crop during the season.

Senate President Mike Haridopolos -- who tapped Alexander to take over the
immigration bill (SB 2040) after the sponsor, Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami,
refused to include the E-Verify component -- acknowledged that Alexander's
speech likely swayed some Republicans to vote against Thrasher's amendment,
which lost on a 23-16 vote.

And that amendment would not have gone as far as Snyder's plan, which would
require businesses to use the federal E-Verify system. Gov. Rick Scott and tea
party activists have pushed for it and Snyder considers it crucial for House
passage.

"We gave it a shot," Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, said late Tuesday. "I'm not
a dictator. I just can't say we're going to make this and it's going to be so.
... The Senate was not willing as a whole to go as far as some had wished."

"When you go to a town hall meeting, whether you're running for dog catcher or
U.S. Senate, they're going to talk about immigration. I tried," added
Haridopolos, who is seeking his party's nomination for the U.S. Senate in 2012.

Still hopeful of passing a bill, he said he would wait until the House takes up
its version (HB 7089) to bring his chamber's plan up for a final vote.

But Snyder said it would be almost impossible for the House to even consider the
Senate measure because House rules require two-thirds of the House to agree to
take it up. Officials in House Speaker Dean Cannon's office backed up Snyder's
assertion that the lateness in the session would likely prevent the bill's
passage.

Meanwhile, national groups threatened to boycott Florida if an Arizona-style law
passes. The business community, the agricultural industry and church groups also
are allied in opposition.

An exhausted Alexander, working around the clock negotiating the budget with his
House counterparts, also said late Tuesday it was doubtful any immigration bill
would be passed before the session ends Friday.

"I'd rather get it right than move it quickly," he said. "If it takes more time
to get it right and more time for our federal leaders to come to some sort of
reasonable solution, then that may be what's best."

The News Service of Florida contributed to this story.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Revised Senate bill  * Would require workforce boards -- not farms or
businesses -- to use E-Verify to confirmthe employment eligibility of workers
referred by potential employers. * Would prohibit illegal immigrants from
receiving any state or federal benefits. * Would require police to make a
reasonable effort to determine immigration status of individuals after arrest
and confinement in a county jail or other detention center. * Would require
'rapid removal' of illegal immigrants convicted of nonviolent offenses, allowing
them to be moved from state to federal custody for deportation before they have
completed their sentences.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legislators urged to avoid Arizona-style immigration laws, Scripps expansion

BYLINE: By BILL DiPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


Fears that Arizona-like immigration bills will be introduced when the Florida
Legislature meets in January were voiced by local residents Wednesday to Palm
Beach County's state legislators.

"We will fight if bills for tighter immigration are filed," said Isabel Vinent,
representing the Florida Immigration Coalition. "Anti-immigration laws break the
ties between the new residents and the community."

Vinent was among about 25 people who brought wish lists to the Palm Beach County
Legislative Delegation at their meeting at the Scripps Research Institute off
Donald Ross Road.

A deposit on plastic bottles, more funding for the handicapped and stopping
Scripps from expanding into the nearby Briger tract were among other issues. No
votes were taken.

The delegation's next meeting is Oct. 11 in Belle Glade.

People should expect bills for tightening immigration laws to be introduced,
said state Rep. Joseph Abruzzo, D-Wellington, chairman of the delegation. But
agriculture and other industries will oppose it.

Drew Martin, conservation chairman of the Sierra Club's Loxahatchee Group,
called for a ban on plastic bags and a deposit on plastic bottles.

Members of the Palm Beach County Environmental Coalition called for canceling
approved plans for turning the 700-acre Briger tract on Donald Ross Road at
Interstate 95 into biotech, retail, offices and residential housing for Scripps.

"A slow economy is no time for new development," said Panagioti Tsolkas,
co-chairman of the organization.

~bill_dipaolo@pbpost

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT LIMITS SCOPE OF IMMIGRATION CASE ;
 Racial profiling rejected as argument against Arizona law.

BYLINE: By LAURA GREEN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Arizona immigration law before the U.S. Supreme Court has been called an
instrument for racial profiling and discrimination against people with accents
and brown skin.

During oral arguments Wednesday in a case being watched closely in Florida, the
court heard no such claims.

Before the government lawyer could issue his first challenge to the law, Chief
Justice John Roberts pinned down Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli on that
point.

Roberts began: "No part of your argument has to do with racial or ethnic
profiling, does it?"

Verrilli agreed.

The U.S. government is arguing a far more fundamental case: that federal law
prevents Arizona from passing its own immigration policy.

Florida and 23 other states have considered copycat legislation. If the Arizona
law is upheld, it could clear the way for more states to enforce immigration
laws within their borders.

Arguing in favor of the Arizona law, attorney Paul Clement said the state "bears
a disproportionate share of the cost of illegal immigration" and that it merely
sought to adopt federal standards as its own and use its resources to enforce
those standards.

Much like the other closely watched case of this term, a challenge to President
Obama's Affordable Care Act, the immigration case will turn on the court's
interpretation of the balance of power between the federal government and the
states.

Arizona's law frustrates federal enforcement efforts because it does not
prioritize deporting one category of illegal immigrant over another, Verrilli
argued.

"Arizona is pursuing a policy that maximizes the apprehension of unlawfully
present aliens so they can be jailed as criminals in Arizona unless the federal
government agrees to direct its enforcement resources to remove the people that
Arizona has identified," Verrilli said.

But justices noted that if the federal government tells Arizona officials they
do not want to deport someone, the state can release the person.

Justice Antonin Scalia also seemed skeptical of the notion that states do not
have the power to act to remove illegal immigrants.

"What does sovereignty mean if it does not include the ability to defend your
borders?" he asked Verrilli.

Already, the state calls the feds to seek the immigration status of people it
arrests.

Verrilli found himself in the awkward position of acknowledging that the state
was not trampling on federal rights in that case, but it would be with a law
such as Arizona's, which makes such checks systematic.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor had another concern about the system of checks: Might
Arizona's law permit officers to detain people for extended periods?

Justice Samuel Alito, usually a reliable conservative vote, also took up that
line of questioning.

Such checks are routine and take only 10 to 11 minutes, Clement said.

But Verrilli countered that the 10-minute check first requires an average wait
of an hour on the phone before police get to someone who can review the records.

Making that simple call by no means gives police a definitive answer about
someone's immigration status, he said. An agent checks eight to 10 databases,
Verrilli said. And even then, there's no comprehensive database of American
citizens. A passport database can verify that someone is a legal citizen, but
little more than a third of Americans have a passport.

That can frustrate the determination of the legal status of someone with a New
Mexico license, for example, because the state issues licenses to people who are
not in the country legally.

Categories of people who have entered the United States illegally but who the
federal government believes should be permitted to stay are put at risk by the
Arizona law, Verilli said. He gave the example of people who are seeking asylum
or who are unable to return to an unstable country. Through a database check,
they may appear to be breaking Arizona law because asylum claims are not public.

Arizona also seeks to expand on federal law by making it a criminal act for
someone to fail to register with the federal government after 30 days in the
country.

The closest Verrilli came to arguing racial profiling was to characterize the
law's intent as producing "mass incarceration." Verrilli said he could only
conclude that the Arizona legislature meant for police to stop many more people
and check their immigration status.

The question of state versus federal power is already an issue that seems to
divide the current court. Verrilli had an even tougher case to make with the
loss of Obama-appointed Justice Elena Kagan, the former solicitor general whom
Verrilli replaced.

Kagan recused herself and that makes possible a 4-4 decision. In that case the
lower court decision would stand. It struck down much of the law, but it would
not serve as a precedent barring other states from enacting similar legislation.

The fate of Arizona's law may not rest with this decision, which is expected by
the end of June.

Immigration advocates have challenged the law on the basis of the Fourth
Amendment protection against unreasonable search and civil rights violations.
The challenge is on hold, pending this decision. Immigration advocates hope that
if they lose this round, they will get to make the racial profiling claims
before the U.S. Supreme Court.

~ laura_green@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Does Ariz. law go too far?  Key parts of Arizona's immigration law have
yet to go into effect because they were blocked by a lower court. Here are the
four provisions that the U.S. government says infringe on federal power: 1The
'papers please' provision allows officers to investigate the immigration status
of anyone they have lawfully detained who they suspect to be in the country
illegally. 2If police believe someone might be deportable, they may arrest the
person without a warrant. 3Immigrants who do not carry federal registration
papers are guilty of a state crime. 4Immigrants who seek work or accept it
without appropriate documentation are guilty of a state crime.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republican Congress only hope for real reform

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1147 words


Regarding Wednesday's editorial, "Tell state it acted illegally,"

regarding Arizona's immigration law: I take issue with two points.

The editorial said the law was wrong "by making it a crime to work in the

U.S. illegally." It's a crime to be in the United States when you enter

illegally, with or without the intention of staying. The editorial also said

the law was wrong "by making immigration arrests beyond what Congress

intended..." What Congress intends these days on immigration is clear to

most of us. It's only when the Senate and House become heavily Republican

that we'll see immigration laws fully enforced.

If you have a relative working with the Department of Homeland Security

in Arizona, as I do, you become aware of a desert that's strewn with refuse

of all kinds from the Mexican border all the way up to Phoenix. If you live

in Arizona, you become leery of the federal government's immigration

efforts.

INGRID LYNCH

Boca Raton

West right to link Progressive Caucus to communism

Recently, I was a visitor in your area, and read your paper daily. Your
criticism of U.S. Rep. Allen West's comments about communists in Congress
represented "journalism" at its worst.

Do a simple Google search of the American Socialist Party, the Progressive
Caucus, the Congressional Black Caucus and the American Communist Party to see
whether there are common threads. You will find that there are. Socialism was
Karl Marx's first stage of collectivism, followed by full-on communism. If
anyone doubts that socialism and communism are synonymous, keep in mind that the
U.S.S.R. was an acronym for Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and that the
Soviet Union was the very heart and soul of communism.

While Sen. Joseph McCarthy was ridiculed for his comments about communists in
the 1950s, time proved him mostly correct. The knee-jerk reaction to Rep. West's
statement as demonstrated in your paper reveals much about the media, your state
and liberalism's blinders.

H.L. BRAND

Flathead Valley, Mont.

Gift to developers crept into bill with 'little controversy'

The Post deserves credit for keeping readers informed about the constant (and
often successful) efforts of "job creator" developers to block enforcement of
environmental controls and do away with limits on land use. A recent article
revealed that the Legislature quietly decided that "Florida communities are no
longer required to get approval by any federal or state agency before issuing
building permits." ("State bill jeopardizes home flood insurance," April 19.)

This gift to developers was apparently included in a bill adopted "with little
controversy." The sneak provision was clearly aimed at sabotaging federal
environmental regulations. The potential damage was revealed only when FEMA
warned Gov. Scott that this law could jeopardize Florida's participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program. Now it seems Florida will try to patch up the
law to provide that "all federal and state requirements must be met before
actual construction can begin."

We can hope Florida will make the necessary changes. Meanwhile, this latest
legislative blunder shows that (a) there is no limit to the arrogant demands of
lobbyists and (b) stories like this should be reported before a bill is adopted,
not a month later, when the damage is done.

CHARLES GAULKIN

Boynton Beach

Contractors want us in war

In response to the letter-writer who asked "Who wants us to stay?" in
Afghanistan, why it's Halliburton, Kellogg Brown and Root, Blackwater and the
rest of the war goods and services suppliers who have "no bid" and "no
oversight" contracts with the military.

VINCENT GIAIMO

Stuart

Editorial missed point of law

The editorial, "Tell state it acted illegally," was laughable. The law merely
enforces existing federal law and turns the perpetrators over to the feds. The
editorial called the enforcement of immigration laws complex. What is
complicated about, "Are you a citizen of the United States?"

Remember that the illegals who are detained and sent to the feds are not the
law-abiding, employed working men and women who take responsibility for their
families and earn a living. The editorial's argument against the Arizona law was
feeble at best. Arizona has a right to protect its standard of living within the
confines of federal law.

CARL WRIGHT

Palm Beach Gardens

Patchwork of laws is no help; maybe court has answer

We do not need a confusing patchwork of state immigration laws that may promote
discrimination. After Alabama passed its law, farmworkers left for other states,
and crops were ruined. When Arizona gained a reputation for discrimination after
passing its law, the state lost an estimated $145 million in convention
business. When teachers in Alabama were forced to become immigration reviewers,
students were afraid to attend school.

We must seek a better solution. The Supreme Court may provide direction toward
repairing a broken system of immigration law. As an immigration lawyer, I am
exposed to the complexities daily. Sadly, many well-intentioned persons are
entangled in a dysfunctional bureaucracy with no viable solution.

GUILLERMO FLORES

Jupiter

Who will secede this time?

So the Supreme Court will rule whether Arizona's immigration law is
unconstitutional. If the court rules that the law is constitutional, that will
mean a big boost for states' rights. The states will be able to ignore the
federal government in many ways.

So where will this lead? A possible civil war, with many Southern states trying
to leave the union, especially if President Obama is elected again? This may
sound implausible, but the governor of Texas has mentioned several times that
his state has the right to leave the union. Florida's state flag is based on the
Confederate battle flag used in the Civil War.

MICHAEL COHEN

West Palm Beach

Try these Third World details on for size, then criticize

Is the United States becoming a Third World nation because of our immigration
policies? A letter-writer seems to think so ("Supreme Court should back
Arizona's immigration law.") After 23 years of residency abroad -- three
countries in Africa, four in Central and South America -- let me tell him some
of my experiences:

The government changed the national currency overnight, and the next morning no
one in the country had any money. Police on horseback smacking voters in the
heads with clubs on election day. The president of the country kidnapped, tanks
in the streets. Friends murdered by guerrilla fighters to make a political
point. My teenaged daughter and her friends on a school trip held hostage in an
attempted coup d'etat. Bribing the butcher and baker with bottles of whiskey.
Standing in line all night for bread, eggs and fish. The capital city shut down
because there was no water for 17 days.

And I'm just getting started. The United States, regardless of our immigration
problems, looks pretty good to me.

SANDRA SCAVAZZON

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COMARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW: READERS RESPONDPB
TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher The Palm Beach Post welcomes your
letters. They are subject to editing andmust include the writer's name, address
and daytime phone number. Preferred length is a maximum of 200 words. Email:
letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the Editor,The Palm Beach Post, 2751 S. Dixie
Highway, West Palm Beach, FL 33405Fax:(561) 820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM
BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION: The news you need, the analysis you
appreciate, the viewpoints you value.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLEEING TO FLORIDA ;
 Many must take lower-paying jobs--if they can find work at all. Strict
immigration laws in Alabama are forcing undocumented workers out of the state

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: GRACEVILLE, Fla.


Angel Enriquez escaped Alabama after a stringent immigration law took effect
there Sept. 29. He moved to Florida but sneaks back home to visit his wife and
1-year-old daughter every weekend.

"I only travel during the middle of the day, because the roadblocks in Alabama
are worse early in the morning and at night," says Enriquez, 24, originally from
Veracruz, Mexico. "And I take a route that helps me avoid the retenes -- the
roadblocks."

With his finger he draws a zigzagging line in the air.

Enriquez is one of an unknown number of undocumented workers who have taken the
narrow roads through cotton fields along the border and crossed from Alabama
into small towns in the Florida Panhandle to escape the toughest state
immigration crackdown in the union.

"We're seeing quite a few people coming," says Rachel Hernandez, a social worker
who helps place migrant children in schools on the Florida side of the border.
"These people are scared of what's happening in Alabama."

People like Enriquez are caught in the middle of the conflict surrounding the
immigration issue. On the one side are business owners who want cheap,
hardworking labor. On the other are Americans who don't want people in the
country illegally and who increasingly fear that undocumented workers are taking
jobs away from U.S. citizens in the midst of an unemployment crisis.

Pressure on employers

The Alabama legislation allows law enforcement personnel to ask people they stop
for proof of citizenship and provides that violators be jailed -- and possibly
deported. It also prohibits renting to or hiring the undocumented -- businesses
could lose their licenses -- and would allow discrimination lawsuits against
employers who fire a legal worker while still employing an undocumented worker.

The law also required schools to determine the legal status of all students and
their parents, but that provision was struck down by the federal 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals in Atlanta. Before that provision was blocked, many
undocumented parents pulled their children out of school, but the great majority
eventually returned.

The law was backed by Republican Gov. Robert Bentley and passed in June by both
houses of the Alabama Legislature, which for the first time since 1874 are
controlled by the GOP. Alabama was home to an estimated 185,000 undocumented
people. Around the time the provisions took effect, some fled to Florida and
elsewhere.

Enriquez, who lived in Samson, Ala., about 10 miles north of the border, is
married to a U.S. citizen. But, he says, because he was deported in 2007 and
returned, he cannot apply for U.S. citizenship until a penalty period has
elapsed.

"The moment the law went into effect, my wife, Megan, said to me, 'We have to
get out of here,'" Enriquez says. "Many people started to get out that day."

He left and very quickly found a job at a lumber company on the Florida side of
the border, but he had to take a sharp pay cut.

"In Alabama I worked for a recycling company, driving a forklift and a loader,"
he says. "I was making $14 per hour and $21 for overtime. My bosses said to me,
'Don't worry, that law never will pass.' But it did."

"Here I'm making about half that -- minimum wage," he said of Graceville, a
weathered, one-stoplight town of about 2,500 residents, 2 miles south of the
Alabama line. "But I'm staying here with friends, still paying for my house back
there and saving up money to bring my wife and daughter."

Fear of deportation

Francisco, 34, who asked that his family name not be used, is also from Mexico,
but has lived in the U.S. for 11 years. As soon as the law went into effect, he
left Webb, Ala., where he worked for the past four years as a welder for a steel
company, making $11 per hour. Francisco, his wife, Dolores, 33, and their
daughter, Kimberley, 8, now share a ramshackle, two-bedroom trailer with another
Mexican family, on a backstreet in Marianna. They also talked about the dreaded
roadblocks everywhere in Alabama.

"We had to get out before they sent us back to Mexico," says Dolores. She says
she and her husband come from the same small town near Veracruz and that there
is no way to make a living there.

They were doing well in Alabama, but have had trouble finding work in Florida.
Lately, Francisco has worked some hours in cotton and watermelon fields. On the
unfinished plywood floor of the trailer sit several watermelons he has brought
home from work.

"At one point my husband tried to get his old job back with the steel company up
in Webb, but they told him they could only hire him back if he had (legal)
papers," Dolores says. "Everything has changed there."

Dianel (pronounced DEE-a-nel), 30, is another refugee from Alabama living in
Marianna, a town of antebellum homes and the site of a small Civil War battle
that probably doesn't mean much to its new Mexican residents.

She and her four children -- ages 5 to 11 -- were living in Gordon, Ala., where
Dianel worked collecting and packing pine needle mulch for landscapers. She had
to drive to get to work and to take the children to school and was afraid of
being arrested at checkpoints. She took her children out of school in Alabama at
first.

"If I sent them, they might get asked about if we were legal and I also might
run into the roadblocks, get deported," she says. "Then I was told that I could
be arrested for not sending them to school, so I took them."

But she says she was scared every day and decided to leave Alabama.

Backers of law cite costs

Critics of the law -- including the Obama administration, which has tried to
block it in federal courts -- said it usurps the authority of the federal
government to set immigration law and also that it will lead to racial
profiling.

But Paul Lee, the GOP state representative for Houston County in Alabama, where
Dianel and Francisco and his family lived before leaving Alabama, voted for it.
In an interview in the county seat of Dothan, Lee said the 185,000 undocumented
people, about 35,000 of whom are schoolchildren, cost Alabama $600 million per
year in education and health care expenses.

"We also know that a large part of the money earned by undocumented persons here
is sent back to their families out of the country and doesn't stay in the local
economy," he said.

"We've done studies and money earned here that stays here is turned over seven
times, passes through seven sets of hands. That works better for the local
economy."

Local opponents of the new law have disputed the $600 million figure and have
argued that many undocumented workers do spend much of their money in-state.

But Lee says he believes that the recession and unemployment crisis in Alabama
-- 9.8 percent out of work in September -- has changed the willingness of local
residents to accept large numbers of undocumented workers.

He says he believes there are U.S. citizens who will want the $11 per hour and
$14 per hour jobs that Francisco and Enriquez held. As for the job left by
Dianel and other agricultural workers, he isn't as sure of those.

Some farmers have asked the Alabama governor for a niche to be carved out of the
law for agricultural and poultry workers. So far Bentley has refused.

"I don't know what will happen there," Lee says.

As for Enriquez, he says it won't matter much to him what Alabama does.

"I don't want anything more to do with Alabama," he says, sitting in grimy work
clothes after an eight-hour shift at his lumber job. "They beat me down in
Alabama. I don't like the discrimination there. But I'll start over again here
in Florida and go forward."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Immigration state laws

Arizona's 2010 law was considered the toughest in the nation. But Alabama's law,
which took effect Sept. 29, is tougher, especially in the area of traffic stops:

ALABAMA

Upon any lawful stop, detention or arrest where 'reasonable suspicion exists
'that a person is undocumented, state, county and municipal law enforcement
officials shall request proof of citizenship or legal immigration status.
Persons without such proof can be jailed without bail. This provision has been
challenged in the courts, but has so far been upheld.

ARIZONA

A similar provision was in a bill, but it was struck down by a U.S. district
judge.

FLORIDA

A bill similar to Arizona's law was defeated in the last legislative session.

INSIDE: More differences in the laws of Alabama and Arizona. 14A

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  post coverageImmigrationImmigration state laws   Arizona's 2010 law was
considered the toughest in the nation. But Alabama's law, which took effect
Sept. 29, is tougher: Renting ALABAMA: No state court shall enforce the terms of
any contract between a legal party and a person unlawfully present in the U.S.,
if the legal party has reason to know that the other person is undocumented.
This is being interpreted as prohibiting renting to persons without documents.
ARIZONA: No such clause. Employment ALABAMA: A business that fails to hire or
that discharges a legal resident or citizen while retaining or hiring an
undocumented person can be sued for discrimination. ARIZONA: No such clause.
Employment ALABAMA: An employer knowingly employing an undocumented worker
canlose his or her business licensefor as long as 60 days. Second violation can
result in permanent suspension of business license. ARIZONA: First offense will
put business on probationary status. Second offense can cause permanent
revocation of a business license. Schools ALABAMA: Every public elementary and
secondary school shall at the time of enrollment determined whether a child was
born outside the U.S. or is the child of persons not lawfully present in the
U.S. This clause was struck down by a federal appeals court in Atlanta. ARIZONA:
No such clause. Schools ALABAMA: A person not lawfully present in the U.S. shall
not be permitted to enroll in or attend any public post secondary education
institution in this state. ARIZONA: No such clause. SOURCE: Martindale.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More sanity, more security

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 458 words


The state-by-state game of immigration roulette shows why Congress needs to
solve this federal problem.

Florida passed on an Arizona-type immigration law this year, but Alabama and
Georgia chimed in, seeking to roust illegal immigrants even if they haven't
committed a crime after entering illegally or overstaying a visa. Still, as
Sunday's story in The Palm Beach Post showed, deportation in Florida can depend
on where someone is at a certain time.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) checks arrest records at the Palm
Beach County Jail, and flags those whose status police or sheriff's deputies
could not verify. Under the Secure Communities program in which the county
participates, prosecutors dismiss or don't pursue charges against those found to
be illegal who have been arrested for minor crimes. Then, they are taken to a
federal detention center for possible deportation.

When an illegal immigrant is charged with a serious crime, especially a violent
felony, the case is allowed to proceed. If the person is convicted and draws
jail or prison time, immigration authorities don't start deportation procedures
until the sentence is complete. The aim is to prevent career criminals from
being sent back quickly to their homeland and returning to the U.S. just as
quickly. As Palm Beach County State Attorney Michael McAuliffe says, though,
there can be justified exceptions -- for victims and witnesses whose cooperation
is necessary for a successful prosecution.

Sheriff Ric Bradshaw supports the Secure Communities approach. For the most
part, so do we. So do some immigrant advocates, at least when it comes to
violent criminals. The debate over automatic deportation for minor crimes is
much more intense.

Still, Sheriff Bradshaw does not want deputies to be cross-trained or act in any
way to arrest immigrants simply for being in the country illegally. "If we
arrest someone under other circumstances," he said, "that's something else."

Indeed, the sheriff's office organized a gathering in Lake Worth at which
immigrants who might be able to obtain legal status met with officials from
several countries, including Mexico. Bank representatives helped people open
accounts. "We got the robbery rate down," Sheriff Bradshaw said, because those
who had formal status didn't have to carry cash all the time.

Like most local officials trying to deal with this problem, Sheriff Bradshaw and
Mr. McAuliffe want Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform. One theory
is that the Obama administration is deporting record numbers of immigrants to
satisfy secure-the-border-first critics of any reform bill. Whatever the reason,
only home-grown sanity will resolve this madness.

-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION INCONSISTENCYOPINION:
THE   DEBATE STARTS HERE  Should misdemeanor get illegal immigrants
deported?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How to avoid being asked to 'show your papers'

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 536 words


Now that the U.S. Supreme Court has green-lighted the part of the Arizona
immigration law that requires local law enforcement officers to ask people
suspected of being illegal immigrants to "show their papers," it's only a matter
of time before Florida's troglodyte-infested legislature follows suit.

This means you might want to start thinking about how you can look and act more
like a bona fide American citizen here in Florida.

Especially if this preparation can spare you the embarrassment of being stopped
by a local police officer who then suspects by your appearance or demeanor that
you also might be in this country illegally.

"There is a basic uncertainty about what the law means and how it will be
enforced," Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in the U.S. Supreme Court opinion. "At
this stage, without the benefit of a definitive interpretation from the state
courts, it would be inappropriate to assume (the law) will be construed in a way
that creates a conflict with federal law."

In other words, Kennedy and rest of the court's majority are willing to imagine
that law enforcement officers are capable of identifying possible illegal
immigrants among the general public without relying on any unconstitutional
racial or ethnic profiling.

If that's true, then a blond woman in a BMW has an equal chance of being asked
to prove her citizenship as a Guatemalan dishwasher on a bicycle.

But of course, that's not true.

So if you don't want to be asked to prove you are an American citizen in
Florida, you should make every attempt to avoid looking like a Guatemalan
dishwasher. Or a Haitian one, for that matter.

The best way to accomplish this is not to be polite, brown-skinned and employed.

A whole lot of illegal immigrants in Florida are employed.

So I recommend looking as fat, white and lazy as you can. You might want to
start eating Funyuns now, as a precaution.

If you venture out in public, appear to have nowhere to go and nothing to
accomplish. Avoid the sun. Keep your clothing free of grass clippings.

If you seem particularly docile, industrious and sweaty due to hard physical
labor, you will just make yourself a target for deportation.

Instead, get yourself some TruckNutz and a Lynyrd Skynyrd CD for your vehicle,
which I repeat, should not be a bicycle. Invest in a "Mitt 2012" T-shirt.

And don't get anywhere near a soccer ball. Golf's OK, as long as you don't have
a Weed Whacker on the course.

If you have to speak a foreign language, make it from one of those charming
European nations -- other than Spain.

Speaking Spanish in public is strongly discouraged. Same thing goes for Creole.

If you are a Haitian or just look like you might be Haitian, consider the beach
off-limits, and as a further precaution, don't even think about stepping on any
boat near the coastline.

Following these simple precautions can help you avoid unnecessary intrusion.

But if none of this works, and you find yourself being questioned by a police
officer, don't panic. Remember, he or she is supposed to be pretending to not be
racially or ethnically profiling you.

Just smile, and whatever you do, don't say that the delay from this questioning
is going to make you miss a day of work picking crops.

frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Frank Cerabino

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 28, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Showdown possible over immigration ;
 Scott calls for Arizona-style law, but GOP legislators back away.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


With some of his fellow Republicans abandoning the idea of a strictly
Arizona-style immigration enforcement law for Florida, Gov. Rick Scott Thursday
reiterated his support for the proposed hard-line legislation.

Representatives of both agriculture and tourism, the state's two largest
industries, have expressed concerns that adopting a law similar to the one
passed by Arizona could damage the state's economy.

Some GOP elected officials have heard those concerns. Senate President Mike
Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, has said the Arizona law is not right for
Florida, although he said Wednesday he is intent on passing an immigration law
for the state this year. New Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, also a
Republican, has also said an Arizona-style law would be bad for Florida
financially.

But Scott, who made support of such legislation part of his campaign platform,
was not stepping back from it Thursday. He said that law enforcement officers
should be able to ask for immigration documentation in the course of their
duties, including during routine traffic stops, a facet of the Arizona law.

"The federal government needs to secure our borders," Scott told reporters. "We
need to have an overall immigration policy that is logical and that works and is
fair to Americans and fair to people that want to come to our country that we
invite to come to our country.

"At the same time, I also believe that if you're in our country and you do
something illegally, you should be able to be asked just like I get asked for my
ID if I ever get a traffic ticket," he continued. "They should be asked if
they're legal or not.

"I clearly don't believe in racial profiling," he added.

Many opponents of the proposed legislation have said it would lead to racial
profiling of Florida Latinos.

Meanwhile, state Rep. William Snyder, a Stuart Republican who is chairman of the
Florida House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday that the final version of an
Arizona-style bill he has authored will probably not be as hard-line as Scott
seems to want.

Snyder's original bill said that during any "lawful stop" state, county and
local law enforcement agents could ask the persons stopped for proof of legal
status.

But based on feedback he has received from law enforcement officials and
committee members, he is considering changing the bill to limit inquiries about
immigration status only to incidents where the law enforcements agents are
involved in a criminal investigation.

Under the change Snyder is considering, people stopped for traffic violations,
such as speeding, faulty equipment or illegal turns, would not be subject to
inquiries about their legal status, as Scott has suggested. But motorists
stopped for DUI, fleeing police, being an unlicensed driver or leaving the scene
of an accident that involves injuries would be subject to inquiries about their
legal status, Snyder said.

Snyder said he received "positive feedback" for the proposed change from members
of the committee during a meeting Thursday where representatives of Associated
Industries of Florida, a business organization, and the Florida Department of
Law Enforcement answered questions by committee members.

Other ideas floated during the meeting were the expanded use of E-Verify and
tougher sentencing for illegal immigrants who commit crimes. One of Scott's
first acts as governor included signing an executive order that requires state
agencies to screen new employees through the federal E-Verify database to ensure
they are legal U.S. residents, and state Sen. Alan Hays, R-Umatilla, has filed a
bill (SB 518) that would require private employers to use the same system for
their new hires.

Snyder's bill would also require businesses to use E-Verify, and he said he
doesn't plan to change that.

A 2010 Government Accountability Office report said the system effectively
confirmed just more than 97 percent of about 8.2 million new hires during the
2009-2010 fiscal year.

"For that individual who gets (an error), it's not miniscule," said state Rep.
Richard Steinberg, D-Miami Beach.

Snyder, in an attempt to get the support of the legislature's Hispanic Caucus,
has promised to share all potential bill language with the caucus chairman, Rep.
Esteban Bovo, R-Miami. Bovo, who is not a member of the judiciary committee but
attended at Snyder's invitation, told his colleagues that he questions whether
the state needs an immigration law and would hate to see a law passed "for the
sake of politics."

The News Service of Florida contributed to this story.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PALM BEACH POST  CONTINUING COVERAGE Immigration debateThe immigration
debate Find the latest news online. PalmBeachPost.com/go/immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Denying illegals in-state tuition helps Florida? Dream on

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 815 words


The question seems to be: Why would Florida let children of illegal immigrants
pay in-state tuition at public universities? The question should be: Why would
Florida not let children of illegal immigrants pay in-state tuition at public
universities?

Illegal immigration is a rolling-boil issue now, but things also were hot in the
presidential election year of 1996. Congress went from immigration reform to
immigration posturing, at one point trying to deny schooling to children of
illegal immigrants.

Out of that posturing came a ban on those children paying in-state tuition
unless a state allowed it. For Florida, it would be a state version of the
proposed national DREAM Act, which would grant legal status to young people
whose parents brought them here illegally if they attend college or serve in the
military. Obviously, there's irony in recognizing state residency when national
residency is an issue, but for this state there's also practicality.

To transform the state's economy, one estimate is that Florida needs almost 1
million more college graduates by 2030, even as the Legislature refuses to
invest in universities. Instead, two-year community colleges have become state
colleges granting four-year degrees. The University of Florida may allow
students to study on spring-summer schedules -- and still qualify for Bright
Futures scholarships -- to maximize resources.

A goal of the State University System is higher achievement by "traditionally
underrepresented groups," which would include Hispanic families who make up many
of Florida's illegal immigrants. Nationally, Hispanics are the fastest-growing
segment of public school students but graduate from college at less than half
the national average.

According to the State University System, 27 percent of Floridians between the
ages of 25 and 64 have college degrees. The national average is 29 percent. The
average in the 10 states with the highest per capita income is 34 percent.

A college graduate, the state says, can expect to earn 61 percent more in his or
her lifetime than someone with a high-school degree. Each new grad means about
$120,000 to the state economy. Even in these tough times, the unemployment rate
nationally for college graduates is one-fourth the rate for high-school
graduates.

Rick Perry is taking heat for signing an in-state tuition bill, but he's correct
to oppose punishing children for their parents' actions. As last week's story by
John Lantigua reported, though, Florida seems unwilling to be compassionate and
smart.

South Florida Tea Party spokesman Everett Wilkinson raised the issue of
fairness. In an interview, he questioned whether it would be "fair" to make a
U.S. citizen from Georgia pay out-of-state tuition in Florida, which can be
three or four times higher, while allowing the break for non-citizens who happen
to be Florida residents. "You're creating a special class," Mr. Wilkinson said.

In fact, it would be fair, because illegal immigrant families support public
universities. Florida has no income tax. The primary source of money for the
state's general fund is sales taxes. The primary source of money from the state
budget for the universities is the general fund. Illegal immigrants, because
they earn less than most families, spend a greater portion of their income.
Thus, they support crucial state services to a higher degree than more affluent
citizen families.

Lower in-state tuition is based on the idea that residents have paid into the
system and states want to retain smart young people. So when Mr. Wilkinson asks
whether it is "fair" to make Florida citizen/residents pay out-of-state tuition
in Texas, while the children of illegal immigrants pay in-state -- "That's a
$100,000 discount" -- yes, it is. Illegal immigrants in Texas support that
state's universities.

Mr. Wilkinson acknowledges that Congress could make this controversy go away by
enacting comprehensive immigration reform that grants illegal immigrants some
form of legal status. "I'm not saying that these kids shouldn't go to college,"
he said. "And I don't believe that we can deport 10 million or 12 million or
however many illegal immigrants we have. We've just got a huge problem that
Congress isn't addressing."

That "huge problem" makes for some weird contradictions. To qualify for in-state
tuition in Florida, which requires that someone live here for a year, students
must present two forms of identification that prove only residency, not
citizenship. Proof of a permanent home and payment of utility bills for 12
months will do it.

Here's something else weird: Florida pays to educate illegal immigrant children
through high school. Then, just as the brightest of them are ready to more than
pay back that investment, Florida discourages them. That seems fairly silly.

Randy Schultz is the editor of editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His email
address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FROM THE EDITOR OF THE EDITORIAL PAGEBALANCED VIEWSTALKING POINTS  FROM
THE   LEFTTALKING POINTS  FROM THE RIGHT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida wise not to follow ;
 Immigration crackdown bad business, bad law.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 517 words


By knocking down most of Arizona's mean-spirited immigration law, the U.S.
Supreme Court made it clear Monday that immigration policy remains almost
entirely in the federal government's purview. The decision heightens the need
for a bipartisan push for reform at the national level. It also serves as a
warning to Florida lawmakers who have flirted with their own
immigration-enforcement efforts.

In a 5-3 decision, justices ruled that three of the most contentious aspects of
Arizona's 2010 immigration crackdown unconstitutionally interfered with existing
federal rules, which trump state laws. Arizona went too far, they said, by
making it a state criminal offense to be in the country illegally, by making it
a crime to work illegally, and by allowing state police to arrest suspected
illegal immigrants without a warrant. Under federal law, being in the country
illegally is a civil, not a criminal offense, working illegally is not a
violation (although hiring illegal workers is), and U.S. immigration agents
generally cannot conduct warrantless arrests.

Justices unanimously permitted -- for now -- a provision of the Arizona law that
requires police officers in some situations to verify the immigration status of
people they detain. Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony Kennedy ruled that
this provision -- the most widely known and most publicly scorned aspect of the
law -- "does not interfere with the federal immigration scheme." It would be a
mistake, however, for Florida to enact a similar provision.

Justice Kennedy echoed worries that it could lead to citizens and legal
residents being wrongfully detained while police try to determine their status,
which "would raise constitutional concerns." But until the law is put into
practice, it is too soon to judge, he wrote. Immigrant advocacy groups are
pressing separate arguments that the law provokes police to discriminate based
on suspects' ethnic backgrounds.

Arizona's law inspired similar efforts in states such as Alabama, Georgia and
Utah, which are now facing their own legal challenges. Florida lawmakers last
year considered a measure that would have allowed police to inquire about
suspects' immigration status, but abandoned the effort after opposition from
agriculture and business lobbies. That was fortunate for Florida. After passing
its law, Arizona saw a drop in hotel and convention bookings as companies and
tourists shunned the state. The Supreme Court's ruling shows that most of
Arizona's crackdown wasn't just bad business. It was bad law.

The Arizona law grew out of anger over worsening problems along the
Arizona-Mexico border, which ironically resulted from enhanced border control in
other areas. The Obama administration has increased border patrols in Arizona
and has set records for deportations of illegal immigrants. These efforts need
to set the stage for broader immigration reform in Congress, with strong border
control, a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants already here, and
respect for the role of the federal government and the rule of law.

Andrew Marra

for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWSSUPREME COURT'S ARIZONA RULING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 3, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Listen to Jeb Bush ;
 What's good for the GOP is good for the nation.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 463 words


One reason that immigration reform is such a confounding issue is that it
fractures traditional political alliances. The use and enforcement of illegal
immigrant labor often pits conservative business interests against rule-of-law
Republicans, and liberal immigrant-rights advocates against labor unions. Little
wonder that reform, however necessary, has proved so elusive.

The Republican National Convention in Tampa provided a perfect example of these
conflicting inclinations, with the GOP endorsing a new party platform that
included both hard-line anti-illegal-immigrant language and business-friendly
support for a guest-worker program for foreign laborers.

As a practical matter, party platforms don't mean much. Laws are written and
policies set in Washington, far from the political theater at the Tampa Bay
Times Forum. But the contradictory messages last week illustrate the problems at
the heart of the immigration reform fight.

On one hand, the GOP embraced a platform of tough and wrongheaded measures
inspired by the anti-immigration effort in Arizona. The intent: to make illegal
immigrants "self-deport," as Mitt Romney put it during the primary, by making
life more difficult for them here and giving police more authority to arrest
them.

On the other hand, some GOP activists were able to get language into the
official platform that calls for a guest-worker program to ensure "a legal and
reliable source of foreign labor where needed."

Guest-worker programs already exist in the United States -- and are often abused
by businesses, including many Palm Beach County hotels and resorts -- but they
are inadequate to meet demand, particularly in the agriculture.

Guest-worker programs are just one facet of the complex immigration issue, and
expansion of them will not, in and of itself, resolve the larger problem or
debate. But that this particular plank has been included in the GOP platform is
a hopeful indication of room for compromise on this issue after the presidential
election.

For that to happen, though, the GOP has to change its tone. Last month, no less
than former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush admonished Republicans to put aside their
abrasive anti-immigrant language, warning that it would alienate Hispanic
voters. "You can't ask people to join your cause and then send a signal that
you're really not wanted," he said on NBC's Meet The Press.

Indeed, immigration reform is a cause that should unite many factions on
humanitarian and economic grounds.

The Catholic Church, among many others, has argued that Americans have a moral
duty to embrace immigrants driven here by material want. This attitude, not the
familiar rancor, should permeate not just the Republican Party but Washington
and the rest of the country.

Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWS  immigration reform

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration jails criticized ;
 Detainees blast safety, medical care; critic says centers are cushy.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 965 words


A Jamaican woman being transferred from one South Florida immigration detention
center to another by herself is raped by the immigration officer who drove the
van.

A Honduran man also in immigration detention suffers a burst appendix, but it
takes a week before medical personnel respond, endangering his life.

Those are two examples presented by South Florida immigrant advocates in support
of the Obama administration's initiative to improve detention facilities and
custodial procedures used by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

But that effort has attracted an aggressive critic: Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Last week Smith convened a hearing to
review the proposed changes, which he says are unnecessarily expensive and would
result in a detention procedure that should be called "Holiday on ICE."

"The administration's new detention manual reads more like a hospitality
guideline for illegal immigrants," Smith said.

He pointed to the $32 million Karnes County Civil Detention Center, which opened
this year in Texas. The 608-bed facility was built to hold nonviolent, low-risk,
male immigration violators.

Smith said the ICE facility incorporates improvements the Obama administration
adopted without congressional input. According to Smith, the center will house
detainees in separate living areas that hold no more than eight people, with
private bathrooms and televisions that get cable channels.

The center also includes Internet access, an indoor gym, soccer fields and other
recreation areas, one of which Smith described as "sand and nets for beach
volleyball."

Republicans said the new standards would allow for publicly funded counseling
and transportation for elective abortions, though not the procedure itself.

"Under this administration, detention looks more like recess," Smith said.

But immigrant advocates say that 115 people died in ICE detention between 2003
and 2010 and that many of those deaths, including suicides, were preventable.
They say the need for improvement in detainee care is urgent.

They point to cases in which detainees did not receive adequate medical care,
including women, who make up about 10 percent of ICE detainees. Cases of rape
were reported.

One was the case of the Jamaican woman -- known only as "M.A." in a statement
released by her attorneys -- who was attacked while being transported from Krome
Detention Center in Miami-Dade County to the Broward Transitional Center in
Pompano Beach on Sept. 21, 2007.

ICE officer Wilfredo Vasquez, who took the woman to his home to assault her,
eventually pleaded guilty and was sentenced to more than seven years in prison.

The Obama administration and immigrant advocates say that shows the need for
clearer ICE procedures, including a rule prohibiting agency employees from
transporting lone members of the opposite sex.

The new standards also would create zero tolerance for all forms of sexual
assault, written procedures for internal investigations, and a requirement that
victims be provided emergency medical and mental health services and ongoing
care.

Another South Florida case was that of Honduran Miguel Bonilla, who in September
2008 was being held in Glades County Detention Center when his appendix burst.
He later said in a statement that he was in acute pain for days and vomited all
the food he ate, but was given only Pepto-Bismol, Maalox and soup. He said he
received no other treatment for a week until a nurse recognized his symptoms and
sent him to a hospital. He spent 11 days recovering, which added to the expense
of his custody.

That and other cases -- some of which allegedly resulted in death -- have led
the Obama administration to recommend stricter protocols for detainee medical
care.

ICE issued a statement in response to Smith's criticisms. Agency officials
emphasized that immigration offenses are not criminal violations but civil
infractions. Some being held by ICE are criminal violators, but not all.

"The new standards are designed to ensure that individuals being detained by ICE
are held in appropriate conditions based their criminal history and risk of
flight, or lack thereof, as well as their medical and mental health needs," the
statement said.

"The standards do not result in a one-size-fits-all system, but rather one that
ranges from minimum to maximum security, according to individual circumstances,"
the statement continued. "Within this range, the standards also assure
appropriate access to legal services, medical and mental health care, family
visitation, and recreation."

There are 33,000 immigrants and asylum seekers held in detention facilities
across the country, according to ICE. Some are held for months or years.

The numbers have risen sharply in the past 15 to 20 years. Before that, the
average daily population of immigration detainees was about 7,500. The increases
have continued under the Obama administration, which detained more than 396,000
immigration violators in fiscal 2011.

Smith's criticisms of the new system were not just about comfort and spending.
He also voiced concerns over a new complaint system that allows detained
immigrants to report mistreatment to various agencies. Smith said that makes ICE
agents vulnerable to false accusations.

Chris Crane, leader of a union representing federal officers responsible for
detaining and deporting illegal immigrants, is also a critic of some of the new
procedures. At the hearing last week, he said ICE had set up no national system
for employees to report attacks by detainees on officers.

ICE agents also are concerned, he said, that the new standards do not include
criminal background screenings of visitors to detention centers.

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks and The New York Times contributed to this
story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Z Roundupnabs 3,100 in U.S.illegally. 7A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's effort doesn't travel

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 382 words


The weeks of national furor last year didn't matter much to Arizona, which
passed a heavy-handed anti-immigration law anyway. Now that the price tag is
becoming clear -- tens of millions of dollars in lost tourism business --
Arizona is starting to see things differently. That state's reassessment should
be a warning to Florida.

Arizona took a big public-relations hit when it required police to investigate
the immigration status of anyone they stop who they suspect to be in the country
illegally. According to The New York Times, estimates of lost tourism revenue
range from $15million to $150 million.

That's a steep price for any political act, and now Arizona is rethinking its
approach. This year, its state lawmakers have rejected five anti-immigration
bills, with many citing concerns about the economic impact of its
tough-on-illegals image.

Florida lawmakers are contemplating their own new anti-immigration laws even as
Florida's tourism-driven economy sputters. Florida needs tourists far more than
it needs a crackdown on illegal immigrants.

The chief proposal moving through Florida's House of Representatives is less
harsh than the law Arizona passed last year. The bill, pushed by Rep. William
Snyder, R-Stuart, merely would allow police to check someone's immigration
status if they already are the subject of a criminal investigation, and also
requires all employers to use a federal database that confirms new hires are
eligible to work.

Although Rep. Snyder has tempered the bill in the face of concerns from industry
leaders, it is still wrongheaded -- and the worries about the impact on tourism
are just one reason why. While Florida probably would not be subject to the same
level of protests and tourism backlash that seized Arizona, where convention
bookings immediately fell, sending the wrong message to prospective visitors
from other states and countries is like tossing a match in a drought-ravaged
forest.

Without question, the United States needs immigration reform. But change needs
to come at the federal level, with protections and new resources to accompany
any changes. Arizona's case shows that patchwork attempts by state governments
can be costly in many ways, and now is not the time to incur that cost.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT FAMILIES:;
DON'T RIP US APART . Busloads beg lawmakers not to follow Arizona's example.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: T ALLAHASSEE


Hundreds of immigrants, some in the country illegally, and their children are
swarming the Capitol this week to plead with lawmakers not to break up their
families.

Lining hallways, crowding into elevators and praying outside the Florida House
and Senate chambers, immigrants -- including two busloads from Palm Beach County
on Tuesday -- are staging an all-out push in the final two weeks of the
legislative session to keep an Arizona-style immigration law from becoming a
reality.

In tow are children of all ages whose parents are illegal immigrants and who
have been deported or are in fear of being forced to return to their home
countries and leave their families behind.

The organized effort to shut down the Florida Legislature's immigration bills is
shifting into high gear one year after Arizona's law went into effect.

And it comes as the Florida measures are already stalled with less than 10 days
until the session ends.

The House is waiting for the Senate to pass its measure before taking up its
more stringent proposal, including portions that would require law enforcement
officials to request proof of immigration status for anyone suspected of a crime
or a traffic violation.

The Senate is waiting for Gov. Rick Scott to lay out his plan before senators
hold a special budget committee meeting on Thursday to take up the immigration
issue.

With the business community and agricultural interests opposed to limits the
immigration bills would put on them, Republican leaders in both chambers are
reticent to take up their bills as the clock winds down on the session.

"I don't know" what the final package will contain, said Senate Budget Committee
Chairman J.D. Alexander, R-Lake Wales, a citrus farmer. "The whole thing bothers
me."

Still, immigrant advocates do not want to take any chances and say they are
determined to keep up the pressure until the end of the session on May 6.

"We think when legislators see the faces of the people it changes the discourse
of the rhetoric," said Isabel Vinent, deputy director of the Florida Immigrant
Coalition and one of the organizers of Tuesday's trip.

Leonila, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, and four of her five children were
among about 200 Palm Beach County residents who spent Monday night on a bus from
Lake Worth to Tallahassee to make their pitch.

The restaurant worker who lives in West Palm Beach and dozens of others crowded
into the office of Sen. Lizbeth Benacquisto, R-Wellington, Tuesday morning to
beg her to vote against the bills, which they said would make it more difficult
for immigrant women to get help when they are physically or sexually abused.

Leonila said she is a domestic violence victim who divorced her husband, here in
the country legally. After their divorce, her ex-husband reported her to the
authorities and Leonila said she spent a night in jail and now lives in fear of
being deported.

Benacquisto emerged from the half-hour meeting in tears, pledging to work with
the sponsors of the Senate bill (SB 2040) to include provisions for women who
are domestic violence or sexual abuse victims.

"One doesn't have to think too hard about how that would affect me," said
Benacquisto, who during her campaign last year disclosed that she was raped at
the age of 19. "Any victim who needs to ask for assistance at that time needs to
have the confidence they can go to someplace safe."

Later, Senate President Mike Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, heard from dozens of
the travelers in an unplanned meeting. The children handed him hand-drawn
pictures of their families as 11-year-old Jose Sarmiento of Lake Worth told him
that his father had been deported three months ago.

And as Scott, who campaigned on an Arizona-like law for Florida, left a charter
school rally outside the Capitol, Vinent grabbed his arm and pleaded with him to
oppose the House bill.

"We'll do the right thing," Scott repeatedly assured her.

Later, Scott elaborated.

"My commitment all along has been if somebody's violating our laws we should be
able to ask them if they're legal or not," Scott said. "But I'm going to make
sure there's no bill that I sign that has anything to do with racial profiling
or treating people unfairly."

Subhash Kateel, a community organizer also with the Florida Immigrant Coalition,
said the immigrants will continue the protests, dropping $1 or $2 into hats to
help pay for the buses and food for the trips.

"We've been rewarded with a high level of civic engagement. That's why we
decided to be here every day of the week," he said. "It's really hard to bring
working families up, but people have been doing it and the numbers have
increased each time because that's how much folks care about this."

~dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Spending cuts: Tempers rise, but leaders agree to a framework for a
deal.11AFlorida's bills vs. Arizona's law  With less than two weeks left in the
legislative session, bills cracking down on illegal immigration sit waiting in
committees in the House and Senate. HOUSE BILL 7095 * Would make it a
misdemeanor punishable by up to 20 days in jail for an immigrant to be in the
state illegally. A jail or prison would be required to notify federal
immigration officials before the person is discharged. * Would require police to
make a reasonable attempt to determine the immigration status of someone under
investigation or arrest. * Would allow police to arrest anyone they have
probable cause to believe is in the state illegally. * Would prohibit police
from using race, color or national origin in the enforcement. * Would require
businesses to use E-verify to validate immigration status of employees.
Businesses that don't comply or knowingly hire illegal immigrants would face the
loss of their state licenses. * Would prohibit counties and cities from limiting
the enforcement of immigration laws. SENATE BILL 2040 * Would require businesses
to use E-verify or Real ID-compliant driver licenses to validate employees'
immigration status. Businesses that don't comply could lose their licenses. *
Would require that prisoners who are in the country illegally be deported after
they serve their sentences. * Would require the state Agency for Workforce
Innovation to prepare a report quantifying the costs of illegal immigrants in
the state, then seek reimbursement from the federal government for those costs.
ARIZONA LAW April 23, 2010: Gov. Jan Brewer signs bill that requires immigrants
to have proof of immigration status; requires police to 'make a reasonable
attempt' to determine a person's immigration status if there is 'reasonable
suspicion' that person is an illegal immigrant; makes it a crime to knowingly
hire or transport illegal immigrants or pick up or solicit day laborers for work
if it impedes traffic; and bans so-called sanctuary-city policies that hinder
enforcement of immigration laws. April 30, 2010: Brewer signs a new law that
modifies the original one to address criticism that it would lead to racial and
ethnic profiling by police. July 28: U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton blocks
four key provisions, including parts requiring immigrants to carry federal
immigration documents and police to check them. April 11: 9th Circuit Court of
Appeals upholds Bolton's ruling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Debate it, don't duck it

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 450 words


The cactus-pocked U.S.-Mexican border divides two nations and, it seems, two
political parties. President Obama flew there this week to declare it
impermeable as ever. But the politics of immigration reform are less secure.

Stricter enforcement and border security long have been sticking points in the
immigration debate. Bowing to those concerns, Presidents Bush and Obama added
border patrol agents, launched unmanned air patrols and erected hundreds of
miles of wall in the desert. The Obama administration is deporting record
numbers of illegal immigrants and raiding businesses that hire undocumented
workers.

In the Texas border town of El Paso on Tuesday, President Obama argued that it
is time to take up comprehensive immigration reform once again. He warned about
"the mounting consequences of decades of inaction" to the economy and America's
own self-image While it's doubtful that he reasonably expected anything besides
political advantage, he was correct to raise the issue, and to raise it a year
ahead of national elections.

Since the last attempt at comprehensive immigration reform failed in Congress
five years ago, the border is better patrolled, crime is down in major border
towns and fewer people are reportedly crossing illegally from Mexico. But since
no 2,000-mile frontier ever can be 100 percent secure, crying "not good enough"
is a way to stall reform.

Citing a federal report, U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, argued this week that
"just 873 miles of our 2,000-mile southern border is subject to operational
control. The president may consider that a success, but I'd give it a failing
grade." What's a passing grade? Critics will not say; there is none. The border
is a subject for demagoguery and little else.

The border situation is hardly perfect. But enough has been done to allow a
reasonable debate about solutions to a larger problem. President Obama's outline
Tuesday sounded a lot like the bipartisan Senate bill put forward in 2006: more
border security improvements, electronic employee checks, more legal immigration
and a path to citizenship for certain illegal immigrants with no criminal
record. This was reasonable enough for President Bush and the
Republican-controlled Senate in 2006, but died in the House of Representatives
over similar gripes about border security and amnesty.

Perhaps President Obama knows that there is little chance for immigration reform
in Congress this year, and is gearing up for next year's election. But the
president's position already reflects a bipartisan compromise, and there is no
security in continuing to put off an issue that has divided the nation far too
long.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION REFORMOPINION: THE DEBATE STARTS HERE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 29, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

With immigration reform, Putnam ready on the right

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 779 words


Wherever you stand on illegal immigration, Florida Agriculture Commissioner Adam
Putnam offers a tempting target.

If you're on the anti-capitalist far left, and believe that anyone associated
with agriculture wants only to exploit foreign workers, Adam Putnam is the
good-ol'-boy citrus farmer who now is the chief booster for every farmer in
Florida. If you're on the nativist far right, and believe that the only solution
is to ship the illegals back to whatever Hispanic country they came from, Adam
Putnam is the corporate stooge who wanted Congress to grant amnesty.

And if you're in the middle, Adam Putnam is the bright, young congressman who
supported immigration reform but couldn't pass it, and thus left the problem to
fester.

Indeed, Mr. Putnam is a tough guy to stereotype. His conservative credentials
are beyond dispute. In the U.S. House, he rose to a top leadership position when
the GOP ran things. He was a tax-cutting, gun-owning, abortion-banning lawmaker.

But Mr. Putnam also voted in 2008 for the financial bailout that the tea party
hates, and can explain in fingernails-on-a-blackboard detail the doom that
then-Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson foretold if Congress didn't throw that
$700 billion Hail Mary pass. All the Troubled Asset Relief Program did, of
course, was stave off a second depression, at what probably will be no net cost
to the taxpayers.

Mr. Putnam also supported the sort of comprehensive immigration reform that some
talk-show hosts live off by chastising. If President Bush had had enough Adam
Putnams in the Republican House and Senate caucuses in 2005 or 2006 or even 2007
-- with the Democrats in charge -- he might have pulled off that political
triumph. As a fallback, Mr. Putnam backed a bill that would have granted legal
status just to farmworkers. That failed, too.

This year, Mr. Putnam didn't testify when the Legislature debated immigration.
But he opposed bills that would have allowed police to arrest someone who, as
the result of an investigation, was found to be here illegally, and forced
employers to use the federal E-Verify system to check legal status.

E-Verify, he said, "is unreliable." Deputizing local law enforcement as Border
Patrol agents "won't work." Like Sen. J.D. Alexander, also a citrus farmer, Mr.
Putnam dismisses simplistic ideas on immigration. "This is one issue," he said,
"where the far left and the far right come together" and block any compromise.

One article of faith among critics of such legislation is that illegal
immigrants take jobs from Americans. When it comes to farm jobs, Mr. Putnam
said, that assumption is "demonstrably false," though all he could offer in an
interview was a conversation with the president of the Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Association. The Florida Agency for Workforce Innovation supposedly
advertised for native farmworkers, and almost none of those who showed up lasted
more than 30 days.

It would be no surprise. Two generations ago, when Edward R. Murrow filmed his
Harvest of Shame documentary in the Glades, poor American blacks filled the
migrant stream that stocked the country's pantry. Their descendants want more,
so most of today's farmworkers are unskilled, often illegal Latinos. "If you
read the history of immigration in this country," Mr. Putnam said, "you see that
it was always somebody being discriminated against. In the 19th century, it was
bringing the Chinese in to build the railroads."

The most reliable studies have concluded that illegal immigrants take some jobs
from Americans who don't have a college education. The debate over "stolen" jobs
gets dicier when you move up from farm work to the tourism industry and higher
still to construction.

We are here because in 1986 Ronald Reagan signed the Simpson-Mazzolli
immigration bill that, in essence, did grant amnesty. The impact from that law
and the new patterns of legal immigrations are as formal as the Pew study
showing that Hispanics accounted for more than half the nation's growth in the
past decade and as shirtsleeve as "Press 1 for English."

But Immigration and Customs Enforcement has a limit of 400,000 people it can
remove from the country each year. The guess is that there are 11 million
illegals, and that 400,000 must include those who overstay visas and have
generated suspicion.

For all we talk about the problem, we do little to address it. "My position on
immigration," Mr. Putnam says, "is not popular with the right wing of my party."
Those who confront the extremes of their party on big issues, though, don't
deserve to be targets. They need cover.

Randy Schultz is the editor of editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail
address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FROM THE EDITOR OF THE EDITORIAL PAGE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Maybe legal, definitely bad

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 465 words


Can a state legally punish businesses for hiring illegal immigrants? Yes, the
Supreme Court ruled last week in upholding a 2007 Arizona law. The repercussions
for Florida could be significant, because state lawmakers tried this year to
pass a similarly wrongheaded bill to require businesses to check all new hires'
legal status in a federal database. However wrongly, the Legislature now may be
emboldened to try again next year.

Arizona's law was enacted three years before its more controversial move to
allow police to investigate the immigration status of people they detain. The
Supreme Court has not addressed that law. Immigration is considered a federal
prerogative, but courts have ruled that states have some limited immigration
authority.

In this case, the ruling hinged on a narrow provision in federal law that bars
states from levying criminal or civil sanctions regarding illegal hires "other
than through licensing and similar laws." The question before the court was: Is
Arizona's law, which revokes licenses from businesses that knowingly hire
illegal immigrants, a permitted use of "licensing"? By 5-3, the court ruled that
it was, with three of the liberal judges arguing in dissent that the Arizona law
doesn't perform a licensing function.

In Florida, state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, tried this year to pass a
similar law, requiring all employers to check new hires in the federal E-Verify
database or risk losing their licenses. But just because Rep. Snyder's bill
might be constitutional does not make it a good bill. Nor does the ruling make
the bill more likely to become law.

That's because such laws draw opposition from powerful business lobbies, which
argue that industries like agriculture and restaurants need illegal workers
because U.S. citizens are generally unwilling to do many menial jobs. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce challenged Arizona's law, joined by the Obama administration
and civil rights groups. Florida's business lobby was chiefly responsible for
killing Rep. Snyder's bill.

Some businesses profit greatly from paying the low wages that come with using
illegal labor, so their opposition is hardly magnanimous. Still, such bills
deserve opposition. As Justice Sonia Sotomayor pointed out in a dissenting
opinion, permitting states to create these rules "subjects employers to a
patchwork of enforcement schemes similar to the one that Congress sought to
displace." It also could cripple Florida's largest industries by limiting the
state's labor pool without giving employers sufficient access to immigrant
labor.

Such comprehensive reform can come only at the federal level. That's why Rep.
Snyder's bill failed this year -- not because it's unconstitutional, but because
it's bad policy.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSILLEGAL IMMIGRANTSPB  TIM
BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher The Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters.
They are subject to editing andmust include the writer's name, address and
daytime phone number. Preferred length is a maximum of 200 words. E-mail:
letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the Editor,The Palm Beach Post, P.O. Box
24700,West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700 Fax:(561) 820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM
BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION: The news you need, the analysis you
appreciate, the viewpoints you value. OPINION: THE DEBATE STARTS HERE Should
West Palm Beach publicize accused 'johns'? pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneTHE CARTOON
VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Schools unfair to immigrants, groups allege

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 398 words


Two legal groups for immigrants filed a federal complaint Friday alleging that
the Palm Beach County School District's registration policy discriminates
against undocumented immigrants.

"Countless numbers of students will not be admitted to school as long as the
additional proof of enrollment requirements is allowed by this policy," read the
complaint, which the Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County and the Florida
Equal Justice Center sent to the U.S. Department of Justice asking them to
investigate the district.

The complaint refers to two teens, identified only by their initials, who are
undocumented immigrants living in the attendance boundary of Boca Raton High
School. Barbara Briggs, an attorney with the Legal Aid Society, said school
officials refused to accept the students' documentation, such as a Matricula
Consular, an identification card the Mexican government issues to foreign
nationals living in the U.S. The school required a Florida driver license with
their current address as proof they lived in its attendance area.

Lisa Carmona, senior attorney for the Florida Equal Justice Center, said many
undocumented immigrants can't get Florida driver licenses and barring students
from enrolling in school violates federal law. Briggs said the immigration
status of the children is irrelevant because schools are required to provide
education regardless of immigration status.

District spokesman Nat Harrington released a statement on behalf of the district
saying: "We believed the issues were resolved or were being resolved. We haven't
yet seen the lawsuit and can't comment specifically. We are following the law
and our policy and making sure schools are aware of all of the specific
documentation requirements for our students."

Briggs said one of the students, a 17-year-old girl, was kept out for a year
before being admitted for this school year. The other student was only allowed
in after the Legal Aid Society intervened on his behalf. Briggs said the policy
is being enforced unequally across the district because Boca Raton Elementary
School admitted that girl's two siblings without asking for a driver license.

Briggs said she also has received complaints from parents unable to enroll their
children at Jupiter High School and Palm Beach Central High School.

"They represent a lot of people who have been pushed out," Briggs said.

~jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Policy eases; detentions persist ;
 Nonviolent illegal immigrants wrongly face deportation, critics say.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1322 words


Dario Perez Roblero, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, was arrested Aug. 25
for picking berries at Sweetbay Preserve off Beeline Highway in Palm Beach
Gardens.

It is a park where some people go bird-watching. That day, a Palm Beach County
Sheriff's Office deputy was watching and Perez, 19, got nabbed on suspicion of
violating a local ordinance involving park foliage. He was turned over to
immigration authorities and sent to the Broward Transition Center immigration
detention facility in Pompano Beach.

Luana, who is in her 50s, also undocumented and from Mexico, was entering a
cosmetology show in early September at the Fort Lauderdale Convention Center
when she and two friends were stopped by agents of Customs and Border
Protection, her attorney said. Luana -- not her real name -- ended up in the
female section of the Transition Center, with much larger concerns than her
makeup.

The two have taken different paths since their arrests. Luana, who has no
criminal record or previous run-ins with immigration authorities, is free,
although with an ankle monitor, and must appear before an immigration judge.
Under new Obama administration guidelines, she has a chance of seeing possible
deportation proceedings against her suspended and being allowed to stay.

Perez, who according to authorities was arrested twice previously while trying
to get into the U.S. from Mexico in 2008, is still in custody and with no
immediate prospect of going free. According to those same new guidelines,
because he is a repeat immigration offender, he is probably facing removal from
the country.

The two of them fall on opposite sides of a dividing line recently drawn by the
Obama administration.

Conflicting messages

In August, the White House announced it would reduce the number of people in
deportation proceedings and try to keep people who pose little or no threat to
society out of those proceedings. Instead, it said it will dedicate more time
and effort to deporting people considered dangerous: people who are dangers to
national security, convicted criminals, gang members, repeat immigration
offenders and also undocumented people recently arrived who have no history in
the U.S.

Members of the immigrant community generally welcomed the news, but if they
thought arrests by immigration agents of everyone else would stop, they were
wrong. Despite the new guidelines, undocumented people of all descriptions are
still being arrested and put into the pipeline, immigrant advocates say.

Attorney Cheryl Little, executive director of Americans for Immigrant Justice,
the Miami-based nonprofit that represents undocumented people throughout South
Florida, said agents of Customs and Border Protection, in particular, but also
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, are still arresting the undocumented,
including those not in the "mandatory detention" categories.

"CBP arrests are of great concern, and fly in the face of Washington's message,
as do recent ICE arrests," Little said.

Attorney Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach, a founder of Florida Voices for
Immigration Reform, agreed. "We're still seeing many people detained," she said.
"There has been no change in that."

Josephs said that seems to contradict the new deportation policy. But a
spokesman for the Border Patrol in South Florida, Victor Colon, said nothing in
the new guidelines has changed the basic job of his agents.

"If in the pursuit of our duties we encounter a person in the country illegally,
we will effect an arrest," Colon said. Period.

He said Border Patrol agents deliver those prisoners to ICE, which runs
detention centers and also decides who should go into deportation proceedings.
He said Border Patrol had nothing to do with that decision.

ICE spokesman Nestor Yglesias laid out the agency's policy.

"In order to better prioritize the agency's limited resources on targeting
criminal aliens and those that put public safety at risk, ICE has issued
guidance for ICE law enforcement personnel and attorneys regarding their
authority to exercise discretion when appropriate," he said.

But nothing in Yglesias' statement or previous pronouncements by ICE says its
agents will stop arresting undocumented people who are not in the mandatory
detention categories targeted for deportation. ICE has long maintained that if
its agents are pursuing criminal aliens and happen to run into other
undocumented people along the way, those people could find themselves arrested
as well.

Crackdown amid leniency

In a speech Oct. 5, Janet Napolitano, Secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security -- which oversees both ICE and the Border Patrol -- spoke on the new
Obama administration policy called "prosecutorial discretion."

She described it as "a prioritization system that begins with finding and
removing individuals who are criminals and repeat (immigration) offenders. At
the same time, our officers have the legal responsibility to remove unlawful
individuals from this country. They will do so according to our priorities. But
they will do their jobs."

And they have. ICE announced this month that it had deported 396,000 people in
fiscal year 2010-11, more than in recent years.

The newly announced, more lenient deportation policies on the one hand and the
continuing crackdown on the other are just another example of Obama
administration policies that are creating confusion and frustration in the
immigrant community, advocates say.

Those policies also have left immigration attorneys suspicious about the
administration's ability to enforce its will. In June, when the "prosecutorial
discretion" policy was outlined in a memo from ICE Director John Morton, the
union representing ICE agents accused the Obama administration of trying to gut
U.S. immigration policy and issued a vote of no confidence in Morton.

Napolitano, who testified last week on Capitol Hill, was asked to address that
delicate issue.

"There are troubling reports that there are ICE and CBP (Border Patrol) field
offices which have announced that these new deportation priorities do not apply
to them," said Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Illinois. "Is that true?"

In other words, was there mutiny in the ranks? Napolitano denied that, but even
that the question was raised heightens the tensions around an emotional and
divisive issue in American political life.

In her testimony last week, Napolitano told senators that implementation of the
new policies is near. She said people in her department are on board and are
collaborating with the Justice Department on ways to cut down the deportation
lists and that in the next two to three weeks, pilot programs will begin in
certain areas of the country to accomplish that. She didn't say where those
areas are located.

Attorney not satisfied

Meanwhile, ICE said that while people are still being arrested, fewer
noncriminals are spending much time in detention, because the large volume of
targeted offenders is crowding them out. One ICE official, speaking off the
record, said that of 700 people being held at the Transition Center in Pompano
Beach -- a much higher percentage are mandatory detention offenders than was
true a year ago.

But that doesn't satisfy Luana's attorney, Sara Van Hofwegen, who doesn't
understand how her client ended up in detention, given the new guidelines.

"The issue is why they were outside a cosmetology show at the convention center
to begin with," Van Hofwegen said. She said an exhibition of beauty products and
techniques is an unlikely place to look for dangerous individuals.

Little and other South Florida immigrant advocates recently wrote a letter to
President Obama and Napolitano asking for changes in policy -- including greater
controls over who the Border Patrol arrests and the end of detention for anyone
not in the mandatory detention categories. She said the combination of policies
is mind-boggling.

"The left hand doesn't seem to know what the right hand is doing," she said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGEImmigration debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gingrich position is risky ;
 'Humane' enforcement is 'amnesty,' foes say.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 936 words


Newt Gingrich's call for "humane" enforcement of immigration laws during Tuesday
night's Republican presidential debate was called a breakthrough
Nixon-goes-to-China moment by one GOP analyst.

But his rivals hope to make it more of a Rick Perry-goes-to-Orlando moment.

Onetime GOP frontrunner Perry's downward spiral in the polls began with a Sept.
22 debate in Orlando in which he suggested those who oppose in-state tuition
benefits for the children of illegal immigrants don't "have a heart."

Gingrich, who has recently moved into the top tier of Republican candidates,
seemed to be skirting similar territory during Tuesday night's CNN debate in
Washington.

Republican candidates have generally taken a hard line on illegal immigration,
calling for heightened security along the Mexico border and opposing as
"amnesty" any proposal to grant legal status to the estimated 11 million people
who are in the U.S. illegally.

In Florida, Gov. Rick Scott capitalized on the stance when he was elected last
year.

Gingrich, a former speaker of the U.S. House, acknowledged during the debate
that he supported a 1986 immigration reform that granted amnesty to an estimated
3 million people who had entered the country illegally before 1982.

Noting that the bill was signed by conservative icon Ronald Reagan, Gingrich
said the enforcement provisions of the law did not turn out the way he and
Reagan had hoped.

Gingrich called for the U.S. to strengthen control of its borders, then adopt
some type of guest worker program while evicting any recent illegal immigrants
with "no ties to this country."

Then, Gingrich added, "If you've been here 25 years and you got three kids and
two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong to a
local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from your family, uproot
you forcefully and kick you out."

U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota immediately accused Gingrich of favoring
amnesty for 11 million people. Her campaign sent out an email during the debate
blasting "Gingrich's open door to illegal immigrant amnesty."

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney also blasted Gingrich.

"People respond to incentives. And if you can become a permanent resident of the
United States by coming here illegally, you'll do so," said Romney, who has
consistently criticized "magnets" that would encourage people to enter the U.S.
illegally.

Gingrich cast his position as pro-family.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter century," Gingrich said. "And I'm prepared to take the heat for saying,
'let's be humane in enforcing the law without giving them citizenship but by
finding a way to create legality so that they are not separated from their
families.'"

Statement 'courageous'

Republican consultant Alex Castellanos, who advised Romney in 2008 but is not
affiliated with any 2012 campaign, called Gingrich's immigration answer
"courageous" and predicted it will only hurt him "a little" with GOP primary
voters.

"Gingrich needs to gain presidential stature more than he needs credibility on
the right," Castellanos said. "He was a profile in courage on this issue. This
may be Gingrich's and the GOP's Nixon-goes-to-China moment. Only someone like
Gingrich could take us where we need to go on immigration. No other candidate on
the stage last night could do what he did."

NumbersUSA Executive Director Roy Beck, whose group advocates reduced
immigration, said relatively few illegal immigrants fit Gingrich's description
of living in the U.S. for 25 years.

But Beck said Gingrich's answer "opens the door to more. When he has the chance
to talk about illegal immigration, he focused on compassion for illegal
immigrants with not a word of compassion for the millions of Americans who are
without jobs."

Beck predicted Gingrich's immigration views would hurt him with GOP voters, but
possibly not as much as Perry's stance hurt his campaign.

"Basically, Perry took a similar kind of position, more inelegantly stated, and
it plummeted him." Beck said. "It was the key reason that he fell from the
polls. Gingrich was more careful. And people are more used to him being this
complicated ball of yarn."

Issue big in Florida

In Florida, the potency of the immigration issue with Republican primary voters
was demonstrated last year when Rick Scott, then a political unknown, surged in
the polls after embracing an Arizona-style crackdown on illegal immigrants in
the state.

After using the issue to defeat former state Attorney General Bill McCollum in
the primary, Scott barely mentioned it during the general election and hasn't
made it a top priority as governor. While Georgia and Alabama passed tough laws
cracking down on illegal immigrants this year, a weaker bill died in Florida's
Republican-controlled legislature during the spring.

Florida-based Republican pollster Alex Patton predicted negative consequences
for Gingrich -- but also, possibly, for tea party conservatives who dislike
Romney and have waxed and waned in their support for a variety of candidates as
potential Romney alternatives.

"I do think his immigration answer is going to hurt him, much like it hurt
Perry," Patton said. "But at the same point, we're playing this massive game of
tea party roulette and who they're least mad at this week."

Bachmann, Perry and Herman Cain have all been tea party favorites at one time or
another.

"They're quickly running out of options," Patton said of tea party voters. "I
think they're going to end up settling for Romney."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Elections 2012 IMMIGRATION: Will Gingrich's call for 'humane'
immigration policy hurt him among GOP as it did Perry?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Go after serious criminals

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 485 words


By all accounts, the past few months have been confusing for illegal immigrants
and the federal agents who enforce immigration laws. The White House says it is
moving to deport more serious criminals and fewer illegal immigrants who live
otherwise law-abiding lives. But that new policy has not always translated into
changes on the ground, where many immigration agents still enforce the law in
seemingly contradictory ways and the agents' union head wrongly dismisses the
White House's new goal as "back-door amnesty."

Amnesty it is not. Immigration enforcement always has entailed deploying limited
resources to confront an impossibly large issue. The real question for
immigration officials is not, and never has been, whether to deport all of those
here illegally but, rather, to choose who, among the estimated 11 million living
in the U.S., to go after.

From this perspective, the Obama administration's decision to focus on deporting
those who most deserve to go is fair, humane and sensible. Detractors should
remember that the Obama administration still is deporting nearly 400,000 people
a year. The notion that illegal immigrants who have deep, long-standing
community and family ties and pose no threat should not be the federal
government's top priority is hardly extreme. Newt Gingrich, now one of the
leading GOP presidential candidates, suggested as much in a debate this week
when he said we should "be humane in enforcing the law without giving (illegal
immigrants) citizenship, but by finding a way to create legality so that they
are not separated from their families." For a Republican in a primary, that
qualifies as radical in a good way.

This month, the Department of Homeland Security announced that it would begin
training its immigration prosecutors on how to use their new "prosecutorial
discretion" in handling hundreds of thousands of deportation cases. That was
good news for Anibal Mazariegos, 37, of Indiantown. As The Post's John Lantigua
reported last Saturday, Mr. Mazariegos was freed this month after reportedly
being days away from deportation to his native Guatemala after 20 years in the
U.S.

Training agents should help to bring a consistency in enforcement that still
seems to be lacking. As The New York Times reported, a study released this month
showed that, even after the federal government authorized prosecutorial
discretion this summer, "most ICE offices have not changed their practices." One
of the primary causes appeared to be a lack of training.

Dropping the case against Mr. Mazariegos and thousands of other
non-troublemakers like him frees up Immigration and Customs Enforcement to focus
on deporting illegal immigrants who are criminals, enter the country repeatedly
or have arrived only recently. Whatever one feels about the broader immigration
debate, the wisdom of this strategy should be clear.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSNEW DEPORTATION POLICYOPINION: THE
DEBATE STARTS HERE  Is new U.S. policy 'back-door
amnesty'?pbpost.com/go/opinionzone

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla. activists fear potential 'chaos' ;
 But others say a pro-Arizona ruling would give states guidance.

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 726 words


A change in U.S. policy recently spared Port St. Lucie immigration activist
Manuel Guerra from deportation to Mexico.

But with the U.S. Supreme Court's announcement Monday that it would rule on
Arizona's law targeting undocumented immigrants, Guerra and other immigrant
advocates across Florida say they fear what might result if the court rules that
states may enforce immigration laws more strict than federal ones.

The court is expected to hear arguments in late April. It will consider whether
a U.S. appellate court was right to uphold a federal judge's decision to block
provisions making it a state crime for an illegal immigrant to hold a job. The
Arizona provisions also would allow police to arrest suspected illegal
immigrants without warrants and would require all immigrants to carry
registration papers.

Guerra, who fought to help defeat an Arizona-style law considered by the Florida
Legislature last spring, said a court ruling in favor of Arizona could "create
great division across the United States and will create chaos within the
immigration community."

Several bills were offered, including one sponsored by Rep. William Snyder,
R-Stuart, that initially called for law enforcement officers in Florida to check
the immigration status of people being investigated for crimes. A spokeswoman
for Snyder said Monday that he did not want to comment until the Supreme Court
issues a decision.

No such bill has advanced in Tallahassee for the 2012 session, but Guerra fears
that a Supreme Court decision in favor of Arizona could create an impetus for
Snyder or others to propose similar bills in future sessions.

"I think that law will once again come back to Florida with great force," Guerra
said. "After fighting for so long, we will have to go back to fighting again --
but now the politicians would have the authority and the backing of the Supreme
Court."

Others, like Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
support states having jurisdiction over immigration enforcement. FAIR is a
nonprofit based in Washington that promotes border security and is against
illegal immigration.

Mehlman said Monday that a Supreme Court ruling could give states guidelines for
enforcing federal immigration laws.

"We are optimistic the court will rule that states have a legitimate role to
play in enforcing federal immigration laws," Mehlman said. "It is primarily the
states and local governments that have to provide education, health care and a
whole range of other services that people require once they are here."

At the Florida chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, spokesman Derek
Newton said he hopes the high court reaffirms that the implementation of
immigration laws is a federal responsibility. "We are looking forward to a
ruling from the court regarding how individual states are crafting their own
immigration policy, which we believe is unconstitutional and leads to civil
rights abuses," Newton said.

West Palm Beach immigration attorney Aileen Josephs said she and other
immigration activists have been working with members of both political parties
to tackle the immigration debate. "I hope (the justices) conclude that
immigration is a federal issue because I would hate to see different state
laws," Josephs said.

While the Supreme Court reviews Arizona's immigration law, a federal bill that
could affect immigrants, the Legal Workforce Act, is before Congress. Sponsored
by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the bill would require all employers to use a
federal database called E-Verify to check the legitimacy of Social Security
numbers given by employees and not hire illegal workers.

Florida farmers worry about losing a large percentage of their workforce if the
bill becomes law.

Over the objections of farmers and the tourism industry, Alabama's legislature
adopted a law requiring employers to use E-Verify. That law takes effect April
1.

Georgia also has passed statewide E-Verify.

Many undocumented workers have abandoned both those states, causing losses of
crops, according to growers there.

Alabama, South Carolina and Utah also face legal action by the Obama
administration for laws similar to Arizona's.

The U.S. Department of Justice said last month that it is reviewing
immigration-related laws that were passed in Indiana and Georgia.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LOCAL REACTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Turning illegals into legals ;
 No rights are granted, and no penalties are removed.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 359 words


By tweaking immigration policy, the Obama administration helped many of those
here illegally who want to become legal residents. The move, which makes the
complex application process less onerous for applicants who have spouses or
parents who are citizens, is compassionate and should encourage more illegal
immigrants to seek legal status.

Under the new policy, announced last week, illegal immigrants with a spouse or
parent who is a citizen can remain while applying for a waiver to a rule that
bars illegal immigrants from legal residency for up to 10 years. Previously,
people seeking such a waiver had to leave the United States and conduct the
waiver-application process in their country of origin, a process that can take
more than a year.

U.S. immigration officials are right when they argue that this requirement often
meant "extreme hardship" for U.S. citizens, who occasionally see a spouse or
child forced to leave the country to await disposition. These applicants now
have to go through the same process but can stay in the U.S. for most of its
duration. They still must visit their native country for an interview at the
respective U.S. Embassy or consulate, but the wait will be far shorter.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, criticized the move as
bending immigration laws by reducing the impact of long-established penalties.
But the new policy does not afford any new rights or remove any penalties; it
merely allows applicants to remain in the U.S. to await the outcome of their
case.

The benefits are plain to see, and are not restricted to affected families. As
an area immigration attorney told The Post's John Lantigua, many illegal
immigrants who could qualify for legal residency choose to remain undocumented
because they do not want to risk leaving the U.S. If they are turned down for
legal residency, they might have to remain in their home country, away from
their spouses or parents. Removing the requirement that they leave the country
during the waiver process will make them more likely to embrace legal residency,
and that would benefit everyone.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!Does Obama's new immigration policy bend
the   law?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneTHE CARTOON VIEWOBAMA'S IMMIGRATION
CHANGEVote   now: Scan this code with your smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportation rule no help, critics say ;
 Low-threat illegal immigrants say cases drag as officials slow to use
discretion.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1002 words


Roberto, an undocumented immigrant from Honduras living in West Palm Beach, has
been in the country 23 years. He has two U.S.-born children, no criminal record
and -- according to his attorney -- has paid U.S. income taxes every year.

Meanwhile, Jose of Lake Worth, who came from Guatemala illegally 17 years ago,
is also father to two U.S.-born children. He owns a landscaping company and has
paid taxes for at least the past nine years, but in 2010 he ran into legal
troubles. He was convicted of DUI and driving with a suspended license.

Both men recently applied to have their immigration cases temporarily shelved
under a new Obama administration policy called "prosecutorial discretion." The
program, initiated last year, was attacked by conservatives as a form of amnesty
for illegal immigrants. But now it's being assailed by immigration advocates as
being full of false promises.

Immigration authorities began reviewing cases late last year with the idea of
temporarily closing the cases of immigrants who have long histories in the U.S.,
have relatives who are citizens, and are not considered dangerous. The intent
was to reduce the enormous backlog in immigration courts and allow immigration
agents to concentrate on hunting down criminal aliens. It was considered a
win-win situation for courts and immigrants.

But critics of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement say the process has gone
very slowly, with a small percentage of immigrants qualifying for
"administrative closure" of their cases. The critics say the Obama
administration, despite announcing the policy last year, continues to be tough
on undocumented immigrants, a position that could turn off Latino voters in
November.

The cases of the two Palm Beach County men help illustrate the issue.

Roberto, 45, was granted administrative closure of his case and permission to
stay in the U.S., at least temporarily. As long as he avoids legal trouble, he
doesn't have to worry about deportation. His siblings, who are legally in the
country, have applied for his legal permanent residence. He said he hopes that
at some point he'll get it and not have to return to Honduras.

Jose, 33, was denied prosecutorial discretion. He, like Roberto, wanted
administrative closure but now he must continue to fight in immigration courts
to stay in the country and could eventually face deportation.

The attorney for both men, Rita Altman of West Palm Beach, said the recent legal
problems hurt Jose, despite his long tenure in the country.

"I'm sure that contributed to it," she said. "Having an absolutely clean record
helps you get prosecutorial discretion."

A year ago, John Morton, director of ICE, issued the second of two prosecutorial
discretion memos that gave immigration advocates hope that many illegal
immigrants could stop worrying about a knock on the door from agents.

As of May 29, according to ICE, 288,361 cases had been reviewed. Of those, 4,363
have been administratively closed or dismissed. Administrative closure is
temporary, but it means those individuals don't have to worry about arrest any
time soon. Dismissal means the case is closed for good.

An additional 16,325 have been identified as eligible for prosecutorial
discretion if they pass background checks. That would bring the total to about 7
percent of all the cases reviewed.

The critics say the policy has not done what it set out to do. Immigrants with
relatively clean records are still worried.

"And if the idea of the policy was to clean up the backlog in immigration cases,
numbers like that certainly aren't going to do it," said Susana Barciela of
Miami-based Americans for Immigrant Justice, which handles cases throughout
South Florida.

But an ICE official said immigration officials had to move cautiously and that
thorough background checks are necessary.

"This is huge undertaking," the official said. "We have reviewed more than
300,000 cases and this is going to take time. We have to be sure a person
qualifying for prosecutorial discretion does not present a threat. We have to be
diligent and check off all the boxes."

Immigration authorities also issued a statement saying the policy "has resulted
in a dramatic reduction in the number of low-priority individuals placed into
deportation proceedings."

ICE also revealed that of the people eligible for prosecutorial discretion,
3,998 had turned it down and decided to continue to press in the courts for
permanent legal residence. A permanent resident gets a work permit and can apply
for a driver license, while a person with administrative closure does not.

"So a lot of people are saying, 'no thanks, because even if I get prosecutorial
discretion I can't make a living,' " said Barciela.

ICE issued a list of the 4,363 cases that had qualified for administrative
closure or dismissal nationwide. The majority -- 3,302 -- were people who met
the basic requirements of long-term presence in the country: an immediate family
member who is a U.S. citizen, and a clean record.

But others included undocumented immigrants serving in or honorably discharged
from the U.S. military; people brought to the U.S. before age 16 who have been
in the U.S. more than five years, completed high school and either are pursuing
or have completed higher education in the U.S.; individuals over age 65 who have
been in the U.S. more than 10 years; victims of domestic abuse, human
trafficking or other serious crimes in the U.S.; and those who suffer from a
serious mental or physical condition.

Frank Sharry, executive director of pro-immigrant America's Voice, was one of
those saying what had been done wasn't enough and that it might cost President
Obama at the polls. He said that in a polling of Latino voters, Obama has a lead
of about 40 points over GOP presumptive candidate Mitt Romney. But he also said
Latinos are suffering "an enthusiasm gap" due to lack of immigration reform and
that some might not go to the polls.

"A president who will fight for them -- that's what Latinos want," Sharry said.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  post coverage  Immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Order trumps illegal status,law grad argues

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 762 words


An illegal immigrant fighting for the right to practice law in Florida says the
administration's recent change in immigration policy should clear the way for
him to be admitted to the Florida Bar.

Jose Godinez-Samperio, 25, came from Mexico with his parents when he was 9 and
the family decided to stay even after their tourist visas expired. Godinez
became a high school valedictorian in Tampa, went through college on private
scholarships, graduated from Florida State University Law School and passed the
Bar exam on his first try. In December, the Florida Board of Bar Examiners asked
the Florida Supreme Court to decide whether Godinez can be a member of the
Florida Bar, given his undocumented immigration status.

On June 15, the Obama administration issued an executive order that affects his
case, Godinez maintains. It allows undocumented young people between the ages of
15 and 30, who arrived in the U.S. before they turned 16, finished high school
or earned a GED, or who are active military or veterans, and who have had no
serious issues with the law -- apart from immigration status -- to stay in the
country for the next two years without danger of deportation and apply for work
permits.

That order is a variation the Dream Act, which has been before Congress about a
decade but never passed. Unlike the Dream Act, the order does not provide a path
to citizenship but the permissions can be renewed every two years.

On July 5, Godinez's attorney, Talbot "Sandy" D'Alemberte, filed a motion with
the court, citing the new Obama administration policy and asking that the
Florida Bar conclude its investigation of Godinez and allow him to practice law.

"The significance of this action for the applicant and for the issues before
this court cannot be overstated," D'Alemberte wrote. "The order is a statement
by the chief executive of the United States that undocumented immigrants
situated in the circumstances of the applicant should be allowed to stay in this
country and be eligible for a work permit."

"It is clear that, under the terms of this new executive order, the applicant is
now prima facie eligible to attain both legal immigration status and work
authorization here in the United States," he wrote. "No grounds remain for
denying or further delaying his admission to the Florida Bar."

Monday, the Florida Board of Bar Examiners filed a counter motion in which it
conceded that the new Obama administration policy is "relevant" to the case, but
insisted that the case should not be closed and that the central issue should
still be decided by the court.

In a phone conversation with The Palm Beach Post, D'Alemberte said that Godinez
fulfilled the professional requirements to practice law in Florida. "If the
problem some people had before was the immigration question, (the new policy)
seems to settle that question," he said.

D'Alemberte, former president of the American Bar Association and of Florida
State, was one of Godinez' professors at FSU and has championed his case.
Godinez never tried to hide his immigration status, D'Alemberte said.

Since the Florida Supreme Court has never ruled that legal immigration status is
necessary to be accepted to the Bar, denying Godinez admittance is invalid,
D'Alemberte said. He has also complained that in denying Godinez membership, the
Florida Bar is taking on the duties of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency, which is not its proper role.

Proponents of stricter enforcement of immigration law disagreed.

"If he went through law school, he should have understood that he was going to
have trouble practicing law," said Tim McClellan, a tea party spokesman from
Broward County. "And I wonder: How did they let him study law, if they knew he
was illegal? If people who study law can claim this right, will gardeners and
crop-pickers be able to claim it, too?"

McClellan said he did not think the new Obama policy should change the facts of
the case.

"The Congress didn't pass a change in the law," he said. "This is too important
an issue for the president to just decide it on his own. In my mind, that new
policy makes no difference."

D'Alemberte strongly disagreed.

"What is happening to Jose is manifestly unfair," he said. "You can't just now
decide what the rule is and apply it to Jose, who has already done everything he
needed to do to qualify. He should have been admitted already."

jlantigua@pbpost.com

Should He Practice Law?

An illegal immigrant has graduated from Florida State University Law School,
passed the Bar exam and wants to practice law in Florida. Should that be
permitted?

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High court supports Arizona's crackdown on illegal workers ;
 Florida and other states could attempt to penalize businesses.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 878 words


The U.S. Supreme Court has upheld an Arizona law that penalizes businesses for
employing workers who are in the country illegally, rejecting arguments that
immigration is a federal issue and paving the way for similar sanctions in
Florida and other states.

The 5-3 ruling Thursday sustained lower-court decisions that the 1986 federal
immigration act gives states the discretion to impose penalties on businesses,
including revocation of their licenses, if they hire illegal workers.

The decision upholding the 2007 Arizona statute, dubbed the "business death
penalty" law by opponents, does not affect a separate case in which Arizona is
appealing blocked components of its more controversial 2010 immigration law
giving law enforcement officials the discretion to request proof of immigration
status.

Writing for the majority, Chief Justice John Roberts said Arizona's employer
sanctions law "falls well within the confines of the authority Congress chose to
leave to the states." The other four Republican-appointed justices sided with
Roberts.

Of the four Democratic-appointed justices, Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg
and Sonia Sotomayor dissented and Elena Kagan did not participate in the case
because she worked on it as President Obama's solicitor general.

In a minority opinion, Breyer wrote that the Arizona law upsets a balance in
federal law between dissuading employers from hiring illegal workers and
ensuring that people are not discriminated against because they may speak with
an accent or appear to be immigrants.

Employers "will hesitate to hire those they fear will turn out to lack the right
to work in the United States," Breyer wrote.

Business interests, civil liberties groups and the Obama administration
challenged the law, which requires businesses to use E-Verify, the federal
system that checks potential workers to ensure they are in the country legally.
The law also allows state officials to suspend or revoke licenses of businesses
that knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The high court decision sent ripples through Florida, where lawmakers were
unable to pass an immigration crackdown during the legislative session that
ended this month, largely because of opposition from business and agriculture
interests to any E-Verify requirement.

The ruling will embolden states like Florida to move forward and could further
cloud the lines between federal and states' rights, said Ediberto Roman, a
Florida International University law professor.

"What we're going to have is haphazard decisions striking down efforts at
immigration enforcement by the states and upholding others," he said. "It's
going to leave the waters murky. This decision allows for 50 or more immigration
policies dealing not only with employment but potentially in other areas."

Business groups in Florida that already were crafting an alternative
guest-worker program in advance of next year's legislative session are now
increasing their efforts.

Associated Industries of Florida lobbyist Jose Gonzalez said the decision
"caused us to start to reevaluate some of our strategy ... because we know that
those that are in support of those types of laws are going to point to that as
something to bolster their arguments."

Lawmakers are expected to revisit the immigration issue when they reconvene in
January. But in an election year, it may be even more difficult to reach
consensus on a divisive topic pitting tea party activists and conservative
Republicans against major campaign donors -- business and agriculture leaders.

"The big question is are legislative leaders going to want to have this nasty
and difficult debate during a redistricting year on these issues?" Gonzalez
said. "We are preparing for that fight. And that's why we're trying to look at
alternatives. ...We're trying to find where that middle is."

Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, who sponsored an Arizona-style immigration bill
that never made it to the House floor, said he hopes the ruling will affect
future legislation in Florida, although he doesn't expect it to.

"I don't think it changes the political Gordian knot that the legislature seems
to be tied in," Snyder said. "I really do think it should because the majority
of Floridians have said they would like to see it. Now, we have a Supreme Court
decision that says if you want to do it, do it."

Many in Florida are hoping the ruling spurs Congress to enact stricter federal
laws as an alternative to E-Verify. Employers have complained that the system is
expensive and unreliable, and could encourage illegal workers to obtain fake
Social Security numbers to pass background checks.

Federal officials need to smooth out problems with existing federal guest-worker
programs, which are "woefully, bureaucratically run and in many instances not
feasible for someone to use," said Jim Spratt, director of the Florida Nursery
Growers and Landscape Association.

"I know the state is probably going to look even closer or try to focus on
E-Verify," he said. "But if you can't use the established guest-worker programs
because of the cost, the time lag and the red tape, you put yourself at a
disadvantage. You're going to build a box that many employers will never be able
to get out of."

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

E-VERIFY ANXIETY ;
 Local growers fear U.S. immigration bill

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: MANALAPAN


Florida's fruit and vegetable growers say their biggest challenge is ensuring
they have enough workers to pick their crops and get them onto grocery shelves.

"The whole immigration reform issue needs to be addressed at the federal level,"
said Marie Bedner, whose family owns Bedner's Farm Fresh Market west of Boynton
Beach. "In Georgia, they had no labor to pick the crops. They rotted in the
field."

Two labor experts told Bedner and other growers at the Florida Fruit & Vegetable
Association's 68th annual meeting Tuesday that if E-Verify becomes mandatory, it
would be a disaster for domestic farmers. E-Verify is an electronic system
designed to prevent the employment of undocumented workers in the U.S. through a
cross-check of Social Security numbers and names.

A hotly contested bill moving in Congress this week would compel employers to
use E-Verify.

"E-Verify is a jobs killer, but only for illegal workers," Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, said in Washington. "For Americans and legal workers, it is a jobs
protector."

Smith chairs the House Judiciary Committee and authored the Legal Workforce Act,
now backed by 62 House members. His panel is scheduled to take up the bill
starting today.

The bill would phase in nationwide mandatory participation over two years,
covering new hires. Agricultural employers would have three years to comply, and
seasonal farmworkers would be exempt as long as they kept returning to the same
employer.

"The No. 1 issue facing agriculture in Florida is labor," Florida Agriculture
Commissioner Adam Putnam said at the growers meeting at The Ritz-Carlton this
week. Part of the problem is that agricultural producers in states where crops
are not as labor-intensive do not share the same viewpoint, he said.

"We have to have all the oars in the water to help us solve this," Putnam said.

Georgia is among 18 states that mandate some form of E-Verify use.

"In Georgia 11,000 workers were lost at the mere prospect of E-Verify," Monte
Lake, a partner with C.J. Lake LLC, a Washington law firm, told the Florida
growers Tuesday.

Of the 120,000 to 150,000 workers employed in Florida agriculture, 65 percent
are undocumented, said Rob Williams, director of Florida Legal Services' Migrant
Farmworker Justice Project in Tallahassee. Those workers have an estimated
35,000 to 40,000 children, most of whom are U.S. citizens, he said.

Williams wants to see workers given long-term legal status. He'd like to see the
influx into the nation slowed and improved conditions for workers already here.

"Their children are here. They are not going back," Williams said.

Lake and Williams said that waiting to totally secure the U.S.-Mexico border
before getting a comprehensive immigration policy won't work.

"The fence is not going to work as long as people are economically driven," Lake
said. "It's an excuse to not deal with the issue."

Williams said he doesn't think any of the three E-Verify and foreign guest
worker bills being proposed in Congress are going to pass both houses and become
law.

However, Williams said, the E-Verify controversy could create an opportunity to
pass other measures to solve the labor problem.

A survey of agricultural employers who use H-2A, a federal program that brings
in temporary foreign workers, found that 47 percent of employers were not at all
satisfied or only slightly satisfied with the program, according to the National
Council of Agricultural Employers.

Seventy-two percent of growers surveyed reported that workers arrived an average
of 22 days after they were needed.

"We have to have a workable program that deals with the ability to get workers
here on a temporary basis," Lake said. "These bills do not deal with the
undocumented workers already here."

McClatchy Newspapers contributed to this story.

~ susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  A $2 billion business in our backyard  * In 2008-09, Palm Beach County
led counties east of the Mississippi River in total agricultural sales and
economic impact -- $2 billion. * The county also leads the nation in the
production of sugar and sweet corn. Source: Palm Beach County Business
Development Board How E-Verify works ZEmployers use it to check worker
eligibility through Social Security or Department of Homeland Security
databases. * Florida already requires checks for its government workers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Appointee r)sum) raising questions ;
 State agency's new liaison, 23, has experience digging political dirt.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


One of Gov. Rick Scott's first hires worked on Scott's campaign digging up dirt
on his opponents and sat on the board of a South Florida anti-immigration group
tagged by civil rights advocates as an "extremist" organization.

Scott hired 23-year-old Anthony Bonna of Port St. Lucie as the State
Department's legislative affairs director, even though Bonna's sole work
experience has been on political campaigns.

Most recently, Bonna worked on Scott's gubernatorial campaign "to compile a
master document of opposition research, find background on policy proposals,
craft attack response and identify/assess vulnerabilities," Bonna wrote on his
state application form.

Bonna, who earns $48,000 annually, previously worked on congressional campaigns
for Karen Diebel of Winter Park and Gayle Harrell of Port St. Lucie. Both
Republicans lost in primaries.

Bonna is still listed on the Floridians for Immigration Enforcement website as a
member of the board of directors. The group endorsed Scott in his campaign for
governor. Trey Stapleton, a spokesman for the State Department, said Bonna
resigned from the group immediately before starting work this week but could not
provide an exact date for his withdrawal.

Efforts to reach Bonna for comment were unsuccessful.

Floridians for Immigration Enforcement, also known as FLIMEN, is among the
groups the Southern Poverty Law Center targeted as "nativist extremists" because
of the organization's "forceful protest at hiring sites," said SPLC research
director Heidi Beirich.

There's a big difference between people who are against immigration policies ...
and those who are really attacking the immigrants themselves," Beirich said.

FLIMEN is not identified as a hate group, Beirich said, but is on a watch list
with others that raise concerns.

"When you start going in the face of the immigrants themselves, you're stepping
over a line that has the potential of spilling over into violence," she said.

FLIMEN is pushing the federal E-Verify system requiring employers to make sure
that potential workers are U.S. citizens. The group also fiercely opposes
day-labor centers, including the Lake Worth Resource Center, which last week was
forced to move out of the city's shuffleboard building because of budget
cutbacks.

In one of his first actions as governor, Scott issued an executive order
requiring all state agencies to use E-Verify, although applicants already must
provide valid Social Security cards.

Scott's hiring of Bonna raises questions about Scott's views on immigration
reform, critics said.

"Obviously this is a person who's in a group that's pretty harsh on immigrants,"
Beirich said. "I can't speak to the individual, but this is not a group that has
a balanced view of immigration and that would be concerning."

Legislative affairs directors are the chief lobbyists for the executive
agencies, typically serving as a liaison between lawmakers and agency heads.

Bonna, a graduate of Georgetown University, will be an asset to the State
Department, Stapleton said. The department oversees elections, cultural affairs
and corporations.

"He's a hard worker, he's an able guy and he's very driven. And he's going to do
great for the Department of State," Stapleton said.

But Bonna's hiring and anti-immigration legislation under consideration in
Tallahassee and Washington alarm Ruth Doran, executive director of the
Guatamalan Maya Center in Lake Worth, which provides resources to immigrants.

"We are dismayed to find an activist from the heart of this campaign, an
exponent of this philosophy, receive a governor's appointment to a central
office of legislative affairs," Doran said. "We tend to be very politically and
socially conservative people, so this demonstration of radical politics is
shocking to us as a reversal of the values of the very country that saved our
lives."

It is not uncommon for politicians to appoint campaign staff to serve in their
administrations, but Senate Democratic Leader Nan Rich said Bonna's r)sum) does
not indicate he was an appropriate choice.

"He provided opposition research to craft attack responses in campaigns," said
Rich, D-Weston. "How does that qualify you to be the legislative affairs
director for the Department of State? It's very distressing.

"We don't need political people whose entire backgrounds have been working
against other people."

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Being tough may not pay off

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 619 words


State Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, says more than 60 people have signed up to
speak at his forum tonight in Palm City seeking public comment on the
Arizona-style immigration bill he's drafting. He attributed the interest -- his
and the public's -- to the "seismic" nature of the issue. We're glad that he
wants to hear criticism, because there's a lot to criticize about the approach
his developing bill takes to immigration enforcement.

The concern about racial profiling remains. Supposedly, police couldn't roust
people just for "looking Hispanic" or "looking Haitian." Immigration status is
supposed to come up only when police make "a lawful stop, detention or arrest."
But police have discretion in when to make "a lawful stop." Expect lots of legal
immigrants to be harassed if Florida adopts this type of law.

Ironically, the legislation also could raise public costs, even as Floridians
complain about the cost of illegal immigration. The bill would increase
penalties for crimes committed by illegal immigrants, which means that they
could stay in jail or prison longer, which would mean higher costs. A speeder
who might have received a ticket could land in jail because of his immigration
status. Asked if such provisions could cost more, Rep. Snyder said, "Yes." How
much more would depend on how quickly the federal government took such people
into custody. That is uncertain.

Also uncertain is Rep. Snyder's assumption that by being tough on immigrants,
Florida would discourage illegal immigration, resulting in fewer encounters
between law enforcement and illegal immigrants. Speaking of law enforcement, do
taxpayers really want police officers and sheriff's deputies, in these times of
budget cutbacks, doing the federal government's immigration enforcement?
Especially when the people being detained are more likely to be farm workers or
dishwashers than crime bosses? Rep. Snyder, a former director of law enforcement
with the Martin County Sheriff's Office, says he will meet soon with law
enforcement associations about such concerns.

Landscapers have reason to worry along with farmers and restaurant owners. Rep.
Snyder's bill probably will require Florida employers to use the federal
E-Verify system to check workers' Social Security numbers or other documents to
prove that they are legal residents. That's a step further than Gov. Scott's
executive order this week requiring state agencies to use the system.

Under Rep. Snyder's proposal, private businesses that hire illegal immigrants
could lose their licenses to operate in Florida. Rep. Snyder said businesses
would be held harmless for mistakes by E-Verify, including circumstances where
the system fails to flag an illegal immigrant and cases where it improperly
flags a legal immigrant.

This is an issue because E-Verify is set up as a voluntary check. If the feds
don't have enough faith in the system to make it mandatory, why do states --
which otherwise are so leery of Washington -- feel comfortable requiring it? And
why shouldn't a worker improperly denied a job have some legal recourse? Another
concern is that even if E-Verify works perfectly, the result could be a labor
shortage for agriculture and other industries that typically have trouble
filling jobs with Americans.

Many issues Rep. Snyder will hear about are in the courts. One challenge,
supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce because of penalties imposed by the
Arizona law on businesses, is before the U.S. Supreme Court.

Not only are issues surrounding immigration "seismic," as Rep. Snyder said, they
can be enormously complicated. Tonight's forum shouldn't be the last in Florida
on the topic.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? pbpost.com/opinionOUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION
PROPOSALOPINION:   THE DEBATE STARTS HERE  Should Florida pass an Arizona-style
immigration law? Read that law and take our poll.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Emotional eruptions at immigration forum ;
 Some speakers on both sides focus on details, not drama.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: PALM CITY


A debate Friday night over the possibility of an Arizona-style immigration
enforcement law for Florida was angry and emotional at moments, and in other
instances it delved into the details of a complex issue.

The town hall meeting summoned by state Rep. Bill Snyder, R-Stuart, who has
proposed such a law, attracted a standing-room-only, overflow crowd of about 300
people to the Cummings Library in Palm City. For two hours, speakers pro and con
presented their positions. Both sides were met with loud applause, whoops and
hollers.

Snyder could tell emotions were running high before the meeting began.

"It is rare in Florida that we have an issue that engenders so much passion," he
told audience members, begging them to remain civil with each other.

Snyder got his wish, although some of the statements on both sides were heated
and provocative.

Jack Oliver, 60, of Martin County, representing Floridians for Immigration
Enforcement, a group that favors Snyder's bill, began the night by accusing
immigrant advocates of demeaning many members of the American public.

"Those who want safe borders and laws enforced are called racist," Oliver said.
"That would make 75 percent of Americans racist. Political correctness, the race
card, is now the intimidation tool used by the pro-illegal-alien activist."

"It is our mission to encourage state and local governments to protect their
cities by enacting and enforcing law regarding illegal aliens," Oliver said.

Snyder's bill would do just that, allowing state, county and law enforcement
agents to inquire about the legal status of people they stop and to turn them
over to federal authorities if they are in the U.S. illegally. It also would
punish employers who hire undocumented workers.

Betzy Rega, 48, of Jupiter, originally from Guatemala but a U.S. citizen who has
lived in this country 44 years, answered.

"I was married to an Anglo ex-police officer and I heard many stories about
rogue cops and the things they know how to get away with, just under the radar,"
she told the crowd. "Racism is alive and well in this country and we don't need
laws condoning it."

She said Snyder's law "will make it legal to harass, profile and disrespect
innocent citizens for one purpose and one purpose only: to appease the racists
in this country.

"To make it illegal to help another human being by transporting or giving him or
her a job will make us as a nation look like Nazi Germany," Rega said.

"It is clear that brown skin is not equal under your laws," she said to Snyder.

But some other speakers concentrated on details.

People mentioned that Arizona had suffered decreases in tourism after passing
its law in April: a loss of $140 million alone in convention business, according
to opponents of Snyder's bill. They said Florida can't afford that.

But a supporter of the measure, Bill Summers, roused other supporters, saying he
had recently come from Arizona.

"Let me tell you Arizona is flourishing," Summers said. "Motels and hotels are
full."

"These illegal immigrants in this country are breaking the law," he added to
loud applause.

David Weber, a blueberry grower who drove from Winter Haven, warned Snyder that
his bill could seriously hurt Florida agriculture, which depends on undocumented
workers for most of its labor.

"Your bill in its present form will punish farmers for the federal government's
failure" to implement the needed foreign-worker programs, Weber told Snyder. He
encouraged Snyder and others to support the AgJobs bill, a measure that would
legalize agricultural workers.

John Bozzetto, 31, of Palm Beach Gardens, traced the anger with immigrants among
some Americans to the lack of jobs and what he said was confusion over the cause
of that.

"Here's a hint," Bozzetto said. "It isn't illegal immigration."

Bozzetto then gave figures on the demise of the U.S. manufacturing sector, which
he said had decreased by more than half in the past two decades as firms moved
operations overseas.

Various speakers, some pro and some con, mentioned the arrival of their own
families from Europe in decades past.

Some of the supporters of Snyder's bill voiced complaints that were strictly
local. They complained about crowded immigrant housing and the deterioration of
local neighborhoods due to the influx of illegal immigrants.

Stephanie Loomis, 56, and Carol Caso, 54, of the Golden Gate neighborhood in
Stuart, spoke before the meeting about local problems.

"We have a lot of illegal immigrants and we also have problems with trash in the
streets, drugs, drunkenness, prostitution, loitering and gangs," Loomis said.
"We have crime all around us."

She supports Snyder's bill, but also called for the Martin County Commission to
pass a nuisance abatement law that would deal with those local issues.

The federal government was criticized all night. Many people said they didn't
believe state or local resources should be used to pay for immigration-related
enforcement that they feel is the duty of the U.S. government.

People in favor of Snyder's bill said the federal government had failed by not
securing the nation's borders. People against the bill said Congress had failed
by not passing comprehensive immigration legislation that would lead to legality
for many illegal immigrants.

Near the end of the session, attorney Maria Soledad Zequeira of Martin County
had a suggestion.

"Go back to the feds and force them to do their job," she said. "That is one
thing everyone agrees on."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PALM BEACH POST CONTINUING COVERAGE   |Immigration debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Advocates spur immigration bill revision ;
 The author says he listened to parties who fear racial profiling.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 794 words


A bill that would radically change and increase immigration enforcement in
Florida would affect millions of people and numerous industries. And state Rep.
William Snyder, who has proposed such a measure, is hearing from many of them.

He appears to be listening.

In a meeting with immigrant advocates Wednesday, the Stuart Republican said he
had changed a section of the draft of his Arizona-style immigration bill that
they had warned would lead to blatant racial profiling.

Snyder's bill would allow state, county and local law enforcement agents to
establish the immigration status of anyone they encounter during "a lawful stop"
if they have suspicions that the person is not in the country legally. But the
original draft explicitly made an exception for Canadians and people from "visa
waiver countries."

"Visa waiver countries" are nations whose citizens can enter the U.S. for
tourism or business reasons for 90 days without a visa. The list includes mostly
European countries, but also Japan, Australia and New Zealand.

Immigrant advocates had warned that that aspect of the bill would lead to
targeted profiling of undocumented Latino immigrants. They also questioned
whether it amounted to selective enforcement, making it unconstitutional.

"He told us at the meeting that part of the original bill is already gone," said
Angelina Castro, a Martin County immigration attorney.

Snyder said the legislature would have the option of reinserting the language
into the bill, which seems unlikely.

Immigrant advocates still worry that the bill will lead to profiling and the
disruption of many immigrant families. And despite the change in his draft,
Snyder still doesn't expect support from those advocates.

"I don't think they'll support any version of my bill," he said.

On the other hand, Snyder said Wednesday that he had received tentative support
for his draft measure from a major Florida law enforcement organization if he
makes another change.

At the moment, the bill allows law enforcement agents to establish the legal
status of any person they encounter during "a legal stop."

Earlier this week, Snyder said he might change that wording to allow such
inquiries only if agents were involved in a criminal investigation. The change
would make the statute less broad and would seemingly avoid situations where
immigrants are deported after being stopped for broken taillights or other minor
traffic violations, for example.

Critics of the original draft bill had warned that it also would overburden law
enforcement agencies.

"The Florida Police Chiefs Association has told me they will support the bill if
the language is changed to criminal investigations," said Snyder, a former
Miami-Dade police officer who recently announced he will leave the legislature
to run for Martin County sheriff.

Snyder is calling the recommendation "an option," but the changes probably won't
stop there.

Snyder's bill will go through a series of public and committee hearings in
coming weeks. One aspect of the bill would force employers in Florida to verify
the legal status of all new hires, a requirement that is sure to annoy Florida's
$7.5 billion agriculture industry, which relies on undocumented workers.

"When he gets before the agriculture committee up there in Tallahassee, you can
expect some push-back on this bill," said David Weber, a blueberry grower from
Polk County who attended a town hall meeting on the bill on Jan. 7 in Palm City
and also joined the group of immigrant advocates who met with Snyder on
Wednesday in Stuart.

"I don't think this bill will make it out of committee up there," Weber said.
"The way it was written, in the first place at least, it would cause great
economic and social disruption."

Another constituency that Snyder expects to hear from is the tourism industry.
The restaurant industry, especially, is known to employ undocumented workers and
would be affected by the bill.

"I assume that representatives of the tourism industry will attend the hearings
and I'll hear what they have to say," Snyder said.

As for his chances of passing some version of the bill: "We will have to see
what the mood of the legislature is."

Snyder, Castro and Weber spoke after the meeting at Snyder's Stuart office.

Most of those who attended the meeting belong to a new group, Florida Voices for
Immigration Reform, which says it is trying to bridge the gap between people on
both sides of the extremely polarizing issue. They went out of their way to
praise Snyder.

"It is good that he is willing to meet with us and it was nice to hear that he
was open to amending some of the provisions of the bill," said Ben Gaspar, an
immigrant from Guatemala. "I don't think any of the Arizona legislators did this
before they passed their law."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 24, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't copy Arizona, top Republican warns ;
 Florida's agriculture chief wants immigration fixes but opposes Scott's idea.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


As a fifth-generation rancher and citrus farmer, Adam Putnam has a personal
stake in an immigration overhaul, one of the most heated issues in Washington
and Florida.

But as the new commissioner of the state Department of Agriculture and Consumer
Services, he's representing the interests of Florida's entire agriculture
industry.

Fresh from a decade in Congress, Putnam, a conservative Republican, has an
insider's view of the issue on the state and federal levels.

Putnam is leery of a heavy-handed approach to illegal immigration. But his
concerns go far beyond farmers' shared worry about a crackdown.

As the Florida Senate prepares to hold the second of three public meetings on
the issue today, he says he is worried that Florida's adoption of an
Arizona-style law such as one proposed by Rep. William Snyder could hurt the
state's reputation as the regional epicenter of trade and tourism.

"Florida is the capital of the Western Hemisphere. We're a destination for
investment capital, international tourists, international research and
development and from Latin America in particular," Putnam said recently. "We
have to be very careful about how we approach this issue."

That's a marked contrast from Gov. Rick Scott's stance on immigration reform.
Scott, also a conservative Republican, campaigned on imposing an Arizona-style
law in Florida and has maintained that position since his swearing-in this
month.

Putnam insists that a measure like the Arizona law, which the U.S. Department of
Justice is challenging in court, would harm Florida -- although he acknowledges
reform is necessary.

"What Arizona did in Arizona is necessarily different than what Florida should
do," he said. "They are a border state. And they were attempting to solve
problems that are unique to a border state."

He added: "Cutting and pasting the Arizona law is not what's right for Florida."

Ultimately, Putnam believes, a federal -- not state -- fix is required to
address the shortcomings in the nation's immigration system. Only Congress can
negotiate with foreign countries and change laws dealing with border patrol and
work and student visas.

Putnam made history in 1990 when, at age 26, he became the youngest person
elected to Congress.

Last year he stepped away after his fifth term to run for agriculture
commissioner. Now he oversees a multibillion-dollar industry that provides more
than 400,000 jobs.

In Washington, Putnam attempted unsuccessfully for years to persuade his
colleagues to pass comprehensive immigration changes.

The least controversial component of the changes he sought would make it easier
for foreigners to get high-tech jobs to make the U.S. "the mecca for human
capital," he said.

Temporary work visas for agricultural workers also had few opponents, Putnam
said, because even union leaders don't believe that illegal farmworkers are
taking jobs from U.S. citizens.

"After that, oh my gosh, Katy, bar the door. It all devolves into chaos," he
said. "The challenge has been trying to make an argument for a comprehensive
piece versus the rifle shots. We tried the comprehensive approach when we were
in the majority. The Dems tried the comprehensive approach when they were in the
majority. It fell flat."

But Putnam and others were unable to get an exemption or special consideration
for farmworkers passed because more powerful members of Congress "wanted to use
that less controversial piece to drag all theirs across the finish line."

Driving away undocumented farm laborers would create an employment hole that no
one else would fill, Putnam predicted.

"There are gaps in the workforce when the unemployment rate was 3.5 percent and
that exist today with the unemployment rate at 12 percent that have to be
filled, unless we want to become more dependent on foreign countries for our
food as we have for our fuel," he said. "To me, that's unacceptable."

Palm Beach County grower Rick Roth agrees.

"People think that by making it illegal and fining employers, they will make us
hire Americans. But Americans don't want to do this work," Roth said.

Snyder, R-Stuart, who is running for Martin County sheriff, is backing a bill
similar to Arizona's that would give law enforcement officials the ability to
request immigration documents and require all employers to use the federal
E-Verify system to ensure that employees are eligible to work in the U.S.

With the unemployment rate so high, Floridians and other Americans should be
happy to pick crops or do any other job available, Snyder said.

"In America we have values, and one of our values is that the free-market system
should work," Snyder said.

"If we become so unwilling to work for a living and to do what it takes to make
ends meet, then we're in a pretty sad situation."

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

Meeting on immigration

When: 2:45 p.m. today

Where: Florida Senate, Tallahassee

What: Second of three public meetings being led by Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami,
who is of Cuban descent and is chairwoman of the Senate Judiciary Committee

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Could path to citizenship be revived? ;
 The House speaker's applause buoys Dream Act advocates.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA and DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 750 words


Many Americans watched and listened closely to President Obama's State of the
Union address Tuesday night, searching for clues about the immediate political
future.

One of them was West Palm Beach immigration attorney Aileen Josephs, who was all
ears as Obama raised the issue of expelling students and other young adults who
are not U.S. citizens from the country.

Obama wants a change in policy so those individuals are given a chance to earn
citizenship through legislation called the Dream Act. But Josephs wasn't focused
on the president as he spoke about the issue; her focus was on the man seated
behind him, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio.

"Boehner was clapping after Obama talked about that," Josephs said with a hint
of surprise. "Who knows? Maybe there's hope."

The Dream Act, which would affect tens of thousands of Florida residents, would
give undocumented immigrants up to age 29 the chance to earn legal residence in
the U.S. if they have finished high school here and completed two years of
military service or college.

It has the support of the Obama administration and military leaders, who would
have a larger pool of potential recruits. But Republicans consistently have
opposed the measure because it does not address the issue of border security, a
GOP deal-breaker.

The chances of that changing are considered slim. But Tuesday night, Obama put
the issue in a context that Boehner, at least for the moment, could applaud: the
need for the U.S. to remain competitive on the global economic scene.

Besides those the Dream Act affects, Obama referred to foreign students who win
visas to temporarily study at U.S. universities.

"But as soon as they obtain advanced degrees, we send them back home to compete
against us," he said. "It makes no sense."

Such students could be kept in the U.S. under H1B visas that are obtained by
specific employers, often with great difficulty.

Austin Parris, 22, the youngest member of the Palm Beach County Republican
Committee, also saw Boehner applauding and said it "kind of confused me."

"John McCain was also applauding, but McCain has been more moderate on
immigration over the years," he said of the Arizona senator and 2008 GOP
presidential nominee.

Parris, who has broken with his party's position on the Dream Act, said of
Obama's speech: "What he said makes perfect sense. What's the use of letting
them use their knowledge somewhere else if we can keep them here?"

But he thinks the GOP congressional victories in November will make it even
harder to pass the Dream Act than it was last year, when Republicans voted
against it in both chambers and managed to eventually kill the measure in the
Senate. New tea party-backed members of Congress have taken a particularly hard
stand on immigration issues.

So why would Boehner applaud?

"Who knows what will happen?" Parris said. "Maybe the Republicans will decide
that passing the Dream Act would be a good way to win Latino votes and keep
themselves in power. Maybe they will decide that as long as it comes from an 'R'
instead of a 'D,' it's a good thing."

In Florida, bills have been proposed in the state House and Senate that would
create an Arizona-style immigration law requiring state, county and local law
enforcement officers to inquire about the immigration status of people they
encounter in pursuit of their duties if they suspect the people are
undocumented.

"Clearly, Washington, D.C., has failed us on immigration," Senate President Mike
Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, said Wednesday. "That's why we're stepping up. We
are going to address this issue this year.

"It is costing the state of Florida at least hundreds of millions of dollars.
We've documented that already in the Department of Corrections. We're also going
to be looking at K-12 and higher education systems. How much does it cost when
Washington, D.C., fails the state?"

The bills in question include the mandated use of the federal, computer-based
E-Verify system that enables employers to determine if a would-be employee is
legally in the country. Employers in the state's $7.5 billion agriculture
industry, which relies heavily on undocumented labor, are concerned about the
impact of such bills.

Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, a Republican, shares their concerns.

"I agree with the president's sentiment," Putnam said. "I hope that he's serious
about putting the full weight of his presidency behind this effort to develop a
comprehensive solution to immigration."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE OF THE UNION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida's approach wrong

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 536 words


For every good reason to reform our immigration laws, there is a bad way to go
about it. The issue touches countless threads of Florida's economic and social
fabric, from the price of supermarket vegetables to the safety of immigrant
families. It should not be handled with narrow objectives.

The debate in the state Legislature this year has not been as rancorous as might
have been feared, given the subject's inflammatory role in the Republican
gubernatorial primary and Gov. Scott's insistence on extreme immigration
measures. But some proposals being brought forward by lawmakers are
wrong-headed.

At the forefront is an immigration bill being prepared by Rep. William Snyder,
R-Stuart, who seeks two main changes to state law: first, to allow police to
arrest someone found during a criminal investigation to be in the country
illegally; and second, to require all employers to use E-Verify, a federal
employment database that confirms new hires are eligible to work.

While Rep. Snyder has softened his proposals in the face of concerns -- some
from Republican leaders -- they still lack necessary safeguards that can only be
put in place at the federal level. Rep. Snyder says that, unlike last year's
controversial Arizona law, in his proposal an officer will have the option to
make an arrest but is not required to do so. And the officer could only
investigate a person's immigration status during a criminal investigation, not a
routine traffic stop or general interactions with the public.

Even with these changes, the proposal is a bad idea. Immigrants in Palm Beach
County and the Treasure Coast, particularly Guatemalan Mayans, are frequently
targeted by robbers, often beaten and sometimes killed. Giving local cops
immigration enforcement powers -- generally a federal responsibility -- would
give illegal immigrants reason to fear and distrust police and would encourage
their victimization.

The push to make businesses use the E-Verify system -- a requirement currently
in place in Arizona, South Carolina and Mississippi -- could cause major
disruptions to the low-wage labor pool for some of Florida's largest industries
and also disrupt the lives of people who have been filling an economic need
based on government's implicit promise to look the other way.

Of course, looking the other way isn't a good policy, either. Lax enforcement of
existing laws has allowed industries to profit from and abuse the low-paid
illegal immigrants who pick fruit, tar roofs and wash dishes. Bringing these
workers and their families out of the shadows of second-class citizenship is an
important goal, but should be attempted only in tandem with new temporary work
visa programs and paths to legal residency.

Inevitably, immigration reform leads to Washington. In his State of the Union
speech last week, President Obama called for overhauling our broken system, five
years after Congress' last effort failed. Any attempt has to include new
guest-worker programs, better enforcement, tighter border control and
opportunities for legal residency. Imposing any of these components without the
others -- as state lawmakers propose -- would make a bad problem worse.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION REFORMOPINION: THE
DEBATE   STARTS HERE  Was the judge too easy on Beruch
Zegeye?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneTHE CARTOON VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hard-line bill draws;
emotional;
responses . Dozens urge a state Senate committee to rejectanArizona-style
measure.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 429 words


Members of the Florida Senate Judiciary Committee, at a public hearing on
Arizona-style immigration enforcement legislation Monday in Tallahassee, heard
pleas that they reject a hard-line stance on immigrants.

Along the way, they also heard a lot of stories.

Latin Immigrants to Florida told inspirational stories, sad stories and a few
angry stories, too, as they tried to persuade the legislators not to emulate
Arizona and pass laws that would allow local, county and state law enforcement
agents to detain individuals for immigration violations.

Bills proposed by Florida legislators this year also would require that all
employers in the state verify the legal status of everyone they hire and would
increase criminal penalties for people not legally in the country who are
convicted of crimes.

The first speaker of the hearing, Jean Honeycutt, a tea party member from Fort
Walton Beach, asked senators not only to embrace those hard-line policies, but
to go further. Honeycutt asked that English be made the only official language
in Florida, that no state services be offered in other languages and that no
person illegally in the U.S. be allowed to wire money out of the country.

After she spoke, dozens opposed to the legislation took the microphone. Many
said they were worried that such laws would lead to racial profiling. Some cited
instances where they felt they had been subjected to racial prejudice by law
enforcement agents.

Others said Florida had to be more welcoming, not less, to people willing to
work. Several told stories of battling poverty to graduate from high school and
college and then not being able to find jobs because they don't have Social
Security cards.

Maria Gabriela Pacheco, an immigrant from Ecuador, talked of having been student
president of her campus of Miami-Dade College, graduating with a degree in
special education, but not being able to work, despite the need for people in
her field.

"It's not because I want to be undocumented, but rather because there is nothing
in the system that will allow me to get legal status," she said.

Maria Jose Ortgea, president of a statewide group of community college students,
warned that laws seen as anti-immigrant could hurt tourism. "Are we planning on
hurting our state economy even farther?" she asked.

Attorney Jill Hanson of Jupiter, an immigrant rights activist, asked the
senators to reject Arizona-style laws and push for a national immigration policy
that would help illegal workers become legal.

"We need laws that will bring people out of the shadows," she said.

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 11, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Activist's bail $450,000 in threat case ;
 The Massachusetts sociology student, arrested over an e-mail to Stuart lawmaker
Snyder,faces a Martin circuit judge via video.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: STUART


Martin County Circuit Judge Kathleen Roberts set bail Thursday at $450,000 for
Manuel Pintado, the self-described political activist from Massachusetts accused
of threatening state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, because he disagrees with
Snyder's proposed immigration bill.

Wearing an orange Martin County jail uniform, Pintado said, "No, your honor,"
when Roberts asked if he had any questions after she read the charges and bail
amounts and said she had appointed a public defender to represent him. Pintado
appeared via closed-circuit TV from the jail while Roberts was at the county
courthouse.

Pintado, a 47-year-old University of Massachusetts sociology student described
by friends as passionate about immigrants' rights, flew to Florida after a
Massachusetts judge released him on his own recognizance Monday with orders to
travel to Martin County to face charges. Two Martin County sheriff's deputies
arrested him Wednesday at Southwest Florida International Airport in Fort Myers.

Pintado is accused of sending an e-mail to Snyder that said: "You better just
stop that ridiculous law if you value you rand your familie's lives
(expletive)."

The unsigned Jan. 8 e-mail was sent about an hour after the assassination
attempt on U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz., that killed six people.

Snyder has proposed an Arizona-style immigration law for Florida.

Roberts set bail at $300,000 for a charge of making a written threat to kill or
do bodily injury. She set bail at $150,000 for a charge of corruption by threat.

The Martin County Sheriff's Office said detectives determined the Jan. 8 e-mail
was sent by Pintado from a Starbucks near his home in Northampton, Mass., and he
was arrested in Massachusetts on Jan. 31.

In its original report on Pintado's arrest, the sheriff's office said Pintado
admitted to police in Massachusetts that he sent the e-mail. The report said
Pintado described himself as a political activist who believed Snyder was trying
to abolish the 14th Amendment, which states that everyone born in the U.S. is a
U.S. citizen.

The sheriff's report said Pintado told the Northampton police he didn't intend
to harm Snyder but was "glad the e-mail made him nervous."

~george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  PALM BEACH POSTCONTINUING COVERAGE  |Threat against legislator

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Businesses push softening of tough immigration bills ;
 Florida groups note changes made in Arizona, Utah.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 866 words


While the Florida Legislature considers tough, Arizona-style immigration bills,
Arizona is stepping back from its stringent anti-immigrant stance.

And Utah, among the most conservative states, last week passed a law that would
give many undocumented workers legal residence, the first such measure in the
nation. Republican Gov. Gary Herbert signed the bill into law despite a Utah tea
party demand that he veto it.

In both states, business leaders were instrumental in moderating enforcement of
immigration law. In Florida, business lobbies also are fighting what they
consider overly restrictive immigration bills before the legislature.

"We want to help ensure that we don't create an economic boycott of Florida,"
said Edie Ousley, spokeswoman for the Florida Chamber of Commerce, which has
campaigned against overly restrictive new laws. "Florida must protect its strong
brand."

After Arizona passed its law last April, empowering law enforcement officials to
question people about their immigration status, the state lost millions of
dollars in tourism and convention business when some Americans boycotted.

Ousley says new immigration laws should not endanger the tourism and
international business industries, or Florida's position as a nationwide
supplier of fruits and vegetables.

On the other side of the issue are members of tea party groups in Florida, who
insist on strict enforcement of federal immigration laws.

"The tea party helped get a lot of officials into office last election cycle,"
said Tim McClellan, South Florida Tea Party spokesman. "Why should we give the
decision-making powers to business people who are in it to keep labor costs low
and increase their profits?

"What is good for them may not be good for the average working person,
especially if people allowed to stay in the country would be taking jobs away
from Americans down the line."

As in Arizona and Utah, the situation has created a divide in Florida between
groups that have traditionally been united: political conservatives and business
leaders.

In Utah, the state chamber of commerce joined with religious leaders and
community activists to champion the new laws, which include a statewide guest
worker program.

An undocumented immigrant can earn legal status in Utah if he or she shows proof
of employment in the state since before May 1, 2010, passes a criminal
background check and pays a fine ranging from $1,000 to $2,500 for entering the
country illegally. The worker's immediate family members also will be legal.

The measure will not take effect until 2013 because Utah needs an exemption from
the federal government and because the state is expecting legal challenges,
including from the tea party. But immigrant advocates are calling it a possible
model for the nation.

Meanwhile, Arizona legislators last week defeated a bill that would have denied
citizenship to children born in Arizona of two undocumented parents. That law
would have created a challenge to the 14th Amendment, which guarantees
citizenship to any child born on U.S. soil.

Lawmakers also defeated bills that would have banned illegal immigrants from
state universities, made it illegal for them to drive, required schools to check
the legal status of students and required hospitals to determine the legal
status of patients. Many business owners signed petitions stating that Arizona
could not risk more boycotts.

Mike Carlton, spokesman for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, a major
player in Florida's $7.5 billion agricultural industry, applauded the moves,
particularly in Utah.

"It is certainly beneficial for the economic environment of Utah for them to do
that," he said of the new laws. "I think it's a way of avoiding a negative
impact on the state of Utah, the kind of negative impact Arizona-style
legislation would have here in Florida."

Jose Gonzalez, spokesman for Associated Industries of Florida, which represents
hundreds of employers, also applauded the Utah initiative.

"The legislators there have said that they (undocumented immigrants) are part of
the essential workforce of the state," he said. "In Florida, so far, legislators
have chosen not to admit they can do damage to the economy as was done in
Arizona."

Subhash Kateel, spokesman for the Florida Immigrant Coalition, says that
although Arizona is "admitting that it has been an economic disaster," Florida
officials still want to go through with Arizona-style legislation.

But Ousley said she has seen movement in the legislature to loosen restrictions.
The original draft of Senate Bill 2040 mandated that all employers use the
federal E-Verify system to validate the Social Security numbers of prospective
employees, because many undocumented workers use counterfeit Social Security
cards.

But last week, Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami, changed her bill so that workers
can present driver licenses from any state or U.S. possession to prove legal
status. The bill contains no provision requiring employers to confirm that the
licenses are not counterfeit.

"What a farce," said McClellan, the tea party official.

Other tea party members in Florida have called the new version "Arizona lite"
and have said they will fight it.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators lukewarm about Scott's immigration approach

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Even as business groups are pleading with lawmakers to back down from proposed
immigration reforms, Gov. Rick Scott is urging lawmakers to give law enforcement
officers the ability to ask for proof of citizenship status when they pull
someone over.

The Senate immigration plan does not currently include that component -- one of
the most controversial features of the Arizona law that officials there are now
rethinking.

Dissent within the Senate, whose leaders are struggling to incorporate what
Scott wants in their proposal, caused a vote on the immigration bill by the
powerful Senate Appropriations Committee to be postponed Wednesday. The
committee will not take up the bill (SB 2040) again until after the chamber
returns from a weeklong break on April 25, just two weeks before the legislative
session ends.

On Tuesday, Scott joined forces with some of the same immigration reform-leery
business groups, including the Florida Chamber, who formed a new coalition
backing the governor's proposed pension reforms for state workers. On Wednesday
they asked him and lawmakers not to pass an Arizona-style immigration measure,
saying they fear it would scare tourists away. But Scott said the federal
government needs to secure the borders and strengthen the process for temporary
workers.

"We've got to work with the federal government to do that," he said. "If
somebody's in our country and doing something illegally, they should be asked if
they're legal or not if they're stopped by law enforcement. So that's where my
big focus is."

Senate Majority Leader Andy Gardiner said, "we're interested in the governor
being part of the discussion," but acknowledged Scott's position would be a hard
sell in the Senate.

"Well, we'll take a look at that," Gardiner said. "There are some members that
have some concerns about that."

Sen. Anitere Flores, the bill's sponsor, has consistently opposed including that
in her proposal. "If what the governor wants is giving law enforcement the
authority to ask for their immigration status (when they) pull people over
during routine stops, that is not something I'm in favor of," Flores, a
Cuban-American Republican from Miami, said Wednesday.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Undocumented, yet undaunted ;
 Immigrant students stage a Capitol sit-in to protest an Arizona-style bill.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Division over proposed immigration reform ramped up in the Capitol on Wednesday
as undocumented students and other immigrants staged a sit-in in Senate
President Mike Haridopolos' office and national advocates pushed for a boycott
of Florida.

Immigrants chanted, "We are Florida," said the pledge of allegiance and lined
the walls outside Haridopolos' office and the entrance to the Senate chambers as
students sought in vain to get a pledge from the Republican leader to oppose a
proposal by the Florida House to create an Arizona-style law.

The group, led by St. Thomas University student Felipe Matos, was escorted out
of Haridopolos' office at 5 p.m.

"He never came out. All we asked was for a response," said Matos, a 25-year-old
undocumented immigrant who was born in Brazil and came to the country at the age
of 14.

Haridopolos, who met with immigrants from Palm Beach County on Tuesday, refused
to concede to the students' demands and instead told reporters the Senate was
weighing how far to go with its reform plan.

The Senate is now considering whether to include allowing law enforcement
officers to ask for proof of immigration status during routine traffic stops,
the most controversial component of the House bill (HB 7089).

"A lot of people are talking about ... when would you ask for the status of an
individual? Would it be a traffic stop or would it be only under a criminal
investigation or actually arrested?" Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, said.

Haridopolos said he has tapped Senate Budget Committee Chairman J.D. Alexander,
R-Lake Wales, to shepherd the Senate package through a committee meeting today,
a sign that the chamber may be taking a harder tack than before.

Sen. Anitere Flores, a Cuban-American Republican from Miami and sponsor of the
Senate bill (SB 2040), had refused to allow the law enforcement component in her
proposal.

"Obviously anyone who had the opportunity to meet with some of the individuals
who've come to the Capitol are concerned about what's going on," Haridopolos
said. "We're just trying to make an informed decision. Everybody doesn't want to
hurt agriculture but they want a tough immigration policy. We're trying to
thread that needle and it's not an easy one to thread."

Meanwhile, the presence of the undocumented protesters Tuesday prompted Geoff
Ross, a former tea party activist, to contact Homeland Security officials. Ross
said he was upset that state lawmakers, including Flores and Alexander, met with
the undocumented immigrants but did not report them to federal authorities.

Ross, a British native, said he waited five years to gain entry to the United
States.

"I followed all the rules and that's what I think these people from Mexico,
Guatemala, Belize, Russia and other countries should do," the Navarre resident
said in a telephone interview. "DHS should be detaining and deporting these
people if they are here illegally."

Ross' complaint alarmed immigration advocates, who in turn asked federal
officials for protection.

"We see the letter from this gentleman as a threat to the constitutional rights
of those gathered in Tallahassee and as a clear indication of the culture of
xenophobia and racism that is spreading Arizona-copycat legislation slated to
destroy Florida's economy and social progress," Florida Immigrant Coalition
Executive Director Maria Rodriguez wrote to Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials and the White House on Wednesday.

Reform Immigration for America sent an e-mail to supporters today asking them to
boycott Florida while lawmakers consider the immigration reforms.

Meanwhile, within earshot of the "We are Florida" chants, Bill Landes strolled
the Senate Office Building handing out letters asking lawmakers to support a
measure requiring E-verify.

Landes, chairman of the Florida Minutemen Organization and a tea party leader
from Lake Wales, said he and others want to make sure that when the state
economy recovers, "legal citizens are first in line to get those jobs."

Haridopolos has said the Senate plan will almost certainly include a requirement
that state workforce centers perform E-verify checks on potential workers and
that anyone applying for government benefits be screened through the system.

Nearby, Florida International University law Professor Ediberto Roman, an
immigration law expert, was turning the contentious immigration debate in the
Capitol into a civics lesson as he lectured students outside the Senate
chambers.

He said the Florida House plan is a copycat of the Arizona bill, components of
which were blocked by a federal judge who found them unconstitutional.

"It will be struck down," Roman predicted of a similar measure in Florida. "This
one's a no-brainer."

Staff writer John Lantigua contributed to this story.

~dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More from the Capitol  Drainage District:The House OKs a bill to pay for
a regional project. 6A Medicaid:Overhaul legislation likely will pass, says its
Senate sponsor. 6A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants amass while legislature deliberates

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Hundreds of immigrants amassed inside the Capitol on Monday, praying and
protesting to pressure lawmakers to drop proposals that would toughen
immigration enforcement.

With the Senate expected to take up its bill (SB 2040) today, Senate GOP leaders
were recrafting their measure to ease the House's proposed penalties against
businesses that don't use the federal E-Verify system.

A revised Senate plan also is expected to allow police to request proof of
immigration status after people who are arrested are read their Miranda rights,
but not during routine traffic stops as the House plan would.

Senate budget chief J.D. Alexander, R-Lake Wales, who is in charge of the
chamber's immigration package, has not released his proposal.

But Senate GOP leaders and business lobbyists working on the deal said it
probably would fine businesses that don't use E-Verify when hiring rather than
yanking their licenses as the House plan would.

E-Verify is an online system that compares information from various government
agency records to help a company determine whether a prospective employee is
eligible for work in the U.S.

During the lunch break, Robert Coker, lobbyist for U.S. Sugar -- one of the many
agricultural businesses opposed to the bills -- was inside Alexander's office as
immigrants lined the walls outside and visited other senators' offices --
including Palm Beach County Republican Lizbeth Benacquisto's -- pleading with
them to abandon their efforts.

Calling the issue a "big political football" that's causing "real angst" for
conservative voters and elected officials, Alexander, said he does not want to
do anything that would wind up deporting workers who have lived in Florida for
decades.

"But for the grace of God, we'd be jumping over the fence, too," he said of
conditions in Mexico and other Latin American countries.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate passes immigration bill ;
 But the House is unlikely to take up the controversial issue.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


With no debate, the Florida Senate quickly and quietly approved an immigration
measure, keeping alive for now the issue the GOP-dominated legislature is
unlikely to ultimately agree on.

The 23-16 Senate vote prompted dozens of immigrants to launch an all-night vigil
outside the Capitol to try to persuade lawmakers to abandon the immigration
overhaul.

The Senate measure, finalized Tuesday after an emotional floor debate, would
require workforce boards to use E-Verify -- a federal government online system
-- to check the immigration status of potential workers before referring them to
employers.

The bill also would prohibit undocumented residents from receiving state or
federal benefits. And it would let nonviolent criminals serve shorter sentences
if they agree to be deported. It would require law enforcement officers to make
a "reasonable effort" to ascertain immigration status after someone were
arrested and detained.

Senate President Mike Haridopolos urged the House to take up and pass his
chamber's proposal despite House GOP leaders' insistence that the issue is off
the table.

"These are common-sense items I think everybody would agree with," the Merritt
Island Republican who is running for U.S. Senate told reporters late Wednesday
evening.

The Senate passed the measure as dozens of immigrants and their children looked
on from the public gallery. Others had lined up in prayer outside House Majority
Leader Carlos Lopez-Cantera's office, pleading with him to keep the House from
taking up the issue.

Chances of the two chambers reaching agreement on the thorny issue remain close
to nil.

"I think it's thoroughly impossible," said Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart,
sponsor of the stricter House bill (HB 7089).

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More than a tactic for 2012? ;
 Florida's struggle shows why Congress must act.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 420 words


In 2008, candidate Obama promised a serious attempt at immigration reform within
his first year in office. President Obama, faced with seismic battles over
health care and the economy, never got around to it.

Now, President Obama seems ready to put the topic on a front burner. Today, in
the Texas border town of El Paso, he is scheduled to deliver a speech calling
for Congress to once more take up this most divisive issue. It remains to be
seen whether it's a real push or a tactic for the 2012 campaign.

It's been five years since the last major attempt at comprehensive immigration
reform failed, and the political landscape has changed considerably. The advent
of the tea party and the rightward shift of the Republican Party seem to have
made any proposal that could be labeled "amnesty" a political nonstarter.
Casualties include proposals for expanded worker visas or a path to citizenship.

The darkening national mood led to Arizona's excessive attempt to enforce
immigration law itself, as well as the copycat proposals that ensued across the
country, including one that failed to pass in the Florida Legislature this
session but, its advocates promise, will return next year if Congress does
nothing.

A comprehensive approach requires better border security and better enforcement
of existing labor laws, elements that many Republicans demand and that the Obama
administration, in fact, is already focusing more on. But those measures must be
accompanied by a real path to citizenship for those already here, as well as
expanded worker visa programs that allow industries to bring in more foreign
workers to fill in gaps in the labor pool. Agriculture and business opposition
to Florida's proposed immigration measures shows how important that labor pool
issue is.

The Hispanic vote is important in Florida, a swing state in the upcoming
presidential election. GOP lawmakers in Tallahassee said they'd like to lecture
Florida's delegation on the need for Washington to act. They could start with
their own party.

Sen. Marco Rubio, a Hispanic South Floridian who rode to Washington last year on
a wave of tea party support, says he is still categorically opposed to any sort
of amnesty for illegal immigrants already in the country. That's too bad. His
leadership on this divisive issue could help to shape a workable consensus about
how to deal with the more than 10 million people living in the shadows,
something that has eluded Washington for far too long.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  THE CARTOON VIEWIMMIGRATION REFORM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration lawyer arrested amid raids

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA SELTZER and JULIUS WHIGHAM II Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 199 words


Immigration attorney Levy Garcia-Crespo has been arrested and charged with
fraud, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Thursday.

ICE agents and other law enforcement authorities raided Garcia-Crespo's suburban
West Palm Beach office and his home in the 1400 block of Keller Road in Lake
Clarke Shores.

Agents were at his office Thursday evening, where they were expected to execute
a search warrant. Garcia-Crespo, 34, works at the Palm Way Professional Center
on Forest Hill Boulevard. He is expected to make his initial appearance in
federal court this morning, ICE spokeswoman Dani Bennett said.

A Homeland Security Investigations agent said Thursday that Garcia-Crespo had
made false statements.

According to neighbors of the home on Keller Road, ICE and U.S. Border Patrol
agents had been at the home since about 11:30 a.m. Thursday. They left around 7
p.m. Neighbors said they found it odd that expensive cars were often parked in
front of the home.

A woman in a Mercedes, who neighbors identified as Garcia-Crespo's wife, drove
by the home several times Thursday. She said she did not know why he was being
arrested and then declined to comment.

~ alexandra_seltzer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ga. crops rot as immigration law's effects felt

BYLINE: Frank Cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 586 words


In Georgia, crops are rotting in the fields because migrant workers aren't there
to pick them.

"We don't have a workforce," said Bryan Tolar, the president of the Georgia
Agribusiness Council, a group that represents about 700 farmers and agricultural
businesses in that state. "Where are we supposed to get it?"

Wait a second. Isn't unemployment in Georgia as high as 14 percent in some
farming communities?

"I think there are people here who can do it," Tolar said. "But we can't find
people who will do it."

Georgia is what Florida could have been if immigration hysteria here had
actually turned into immigration law.

Lucky for us, it was all just useful nonsense. Gov. Rick Scott, who campaigned
on a pledge to bring a let's-see-yer-papers-amigo law to Florida, didn't push
very hard for it once he got across the finish line. And elements of the
tea-addled Florida Legislature ran into the state's agriculture lobby, which put
an end to this political puffery with some last-minute adult supervision.

Migrant labor ... migrated

The Florida Senate's Budget Committee Chairman, J.D. Alexander, a term-limited
Republican citrus farmer, was an important roadblock to Florida getting into the
immigration enforcement business. Alexander told his colleagues that he resented
being asked to "choose between hard-working people and somebody's uninformed
knowledge."

Georgia, on the other hand, went with the uninformed knowledge.

That state's new governor, Nathan Deal, who also promised to bring an
Arizona-style immigration law to Georgia, got the job done in May when he signed
a repressive immigration bill.

The Georgia law establishes new identity verification requirements for workers,
15-year prison sentences for those who use a fake ID to get a job, and up to a
year in jail and a $1,000 fine for anyone who, while committing another crime,
knowingly transports or harbors illegal immigrants.

The law establishes an Immigration Enforcement Review Board to investigate
complaints about local and state officials not enforcing the state's new law;
and government officials who fail to use the E-Verify identity system for
workers face $10,000 fines and removal from office.

The law went into effect this month. Court challenges have already put a couple
of its onerous provisions on hold. But much of Georgia's migrant farm labor
didn't stick around to see how things shake out.

"They started seeing a lot more roadblocks with police doing license checks on
country roads," Tolar said. "It didn't used to be that way."

Jobs are posted, but no one's applying

So now, as Georgia's onions, cucumbers, squash, blackberries, blueberries and
watermelons need to be picked, the migrant workers are gone, working in Florida,
North Carolina and elsewhere.

"About 75 percent of our farms either don't have enough workers now, or
anticipate not having enough workers when their crops are ready," Tolar said.

There are about 11,000 unfilled fieldworker jobs, Tolar said, and despite
posting the job openings at the state's labor offices, they remain unfilled. The
pay range is about $8 to $12 an hour.

"You can make more money than you would at McDonald's," Tolar said. "But
McDonald's is air conditioned, and you can get a cool drink when you want one."

And you don't have to pick crops for 12 to 14 hours a day in the summer heat.

"Watermelons are real work," said the 42-year-old Tolar. "I tried picking
blackberries for a day. I couldn't keep up. The farmer told me it'd be good if I
tried another farm down the road."

~frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

E-Verify? No, go high-tech ;
 Just look at who from Florida voted for it.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 332 words


Fortunately, we didn't hear anything about immigration from Gov. Scott last week
when he presented his budget. So the governor who won his Republican primary
last year by blasting Bill McCollum for not wanting an Arizona-style immigration
law now doesn't seem to care about a Florida-style law.

During last year's spring session, the Legislature backed away from a law that
would require the state's employers to use the E-Verify system to check
immigration status. Such a bill would not help Florida. The state needs an
immigration system that at one end of the spectrum can supply farmworkers and at
the other end can supply technocrats for the state's bioscience industry.

There's no movement on the first need. No one is talking about an earlier bill
in Congress that would separate agriculture from the rest of the immigration
debate, creating a program that would grant farmworkers legal status.

There is movement, though, on the second need. The House just passed the
Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act, 389 to 15. Republicans Allen West and
Tom Rooney voted for it. So did Democrats Alcee Hastings and Debbie Wasserman
Schultz. That bloc alone means the bill is worth a long look.

HR 3012 would end the outdated caps on how many citizens of certain countries
can become permanent legal residents, though the annual total of green cards
would not change. As one lawmaker put it, the current system treats Iceland the
same as India. The bill also would change the per-country visa system. In 2006,
two-thirds of all students who obtained doctoral degrees in engineering were
foreigners. Yet our system gives them no incentive to stay.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, wants to require employers nationwide to use
E-Verify. The system is flawed, and the rule would scare off farm labor with no
replacements. If the Senate can overcome its antiquated rules and pass HR 3012,
we wouldn't have immigration reform, but we might have a start.

-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION REFORM IN PIECES?

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Couple plead guilty in immigration case ;
 For conspiracy to commit fraud, they could be imprisoned for five years and
deported.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Lake Clarke Shores couple has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
immigration fraud in connection with a business they called Welcome to America
Inc.

Federal prosecutors allege that the couple made $4.5 million providing phony
documents that helped 3,000 illegal immigrants improperly obtain Florida driver
licenses.

Levy Garcia-Crespo, 35, and his wife, Anyelina Cid Bonilla, 36, face up to five
years in prison when they are sentenced on March 23.

Garcia-Crespo and Bonilla, who reached their plea agreements earlier this month,
also could face deportation.

As part of a plea deal, the couple agreed to forfeit $1.8 million.

Garcia-Crespo and Bonilla were originally charged with multiple counts of fraud
in connection with the scheme, in which Garcia-Crespo allegedly pretended to be
an attorney.

In late May, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents and other law
enforcement authorities conducted raids at Garcia-Crespo's office and at his
home in the 1400 block of Keller Road in Lake Clarke Shores.

His office was at Palm Way Professional Center in the 3600 block of Forest Hill
Boulevard in suburban West Palm Beach.

~ jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fake immigration lawyer gets 42 months ;
 His wife will serve a 30-month sentence and face deportation.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Growing up in poverty in Cuba, Levy Garcia Crespo said he dreamed of making
something of himself.

Immigrating to the United States, he accomplished his dream and then some. The
driveway of his Lake Clarke Shores house was a testament to his success. It
featured a seemingly never-ending stream of Lamborghinis, Maseratis, Porsches,
boats and motorcycles he bought with the money he earned in his burgeoning
practice as an attorney.

The only problem was that the 35-year-old wasn't an attorney.

With the help of his wife, Anyelina Cid Bonilla, Crespo masqueraded as a lawyer,
convincing desperate immigrants that for a hefty price he could turn them into
citizens, federal prosecutors said. He was brazen. Besides filing nearly 3,200
false immigration documents, he appeared before federal immigration judges.

"He thought nothing of walking into a federal courtroom and lying to a federal
judge," said prosecutor Rinku Talwar Tribuiani. "Essentially he mocked our
justice system."

And, while prosecutors said he and his wife amassed an estimated $4.5 million,
U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra said Thursday that the couple will pay a high
price for their duplicity and greed.

Marra sentenced Crespo to 42 months in prison. Bonilla received a 30-month
sentence. Because Crespo is from Cuba, he can't be deported under federal law
that protects those fleeing the communist nation. However, to show his remorse,
Crespo agreed to relinquish immigration papers that would allow him to stay in
the country, his attorney said.

His wife will be deported to the Dominican Republic when she gets out of prison.
Had Bonilla received a sentence of 12 months or less, she could have appealed to
an immigration judge to let her stay and raise the couple's two school-age
children on U.S. soil. However, her sentence's length makes her an aggravated
felon, which all but guarantees she will be thrown out of the country, said her
attorney, Martin Beguiristain.

Beguiristain portrayed Bonilla, 36, as a dutiful wife who served as a
receptionist in her husband's office on Forest Hill Boulevard. Marra didn't buy
it.

"They jointly got the benefit of the fruits of the crime," Marra said.

Referring to a photo of her taken in front of their home, which is being seized
by the government, he said: "She was very happy to stand in front of the
automobiles and she knew where the money came from." In total, they will forfeit
$1.5 million.

Two immigrants testified that Bonilla set up the appointments, telling them to
dress well and bring cash. She introduced them to her husband, whom she
identified as Gerald Salerno, a real attorney who hired Crespo and trained him
as a paralegal. A lawyer in her home country, she notarized the fraudulent
documents that were sent to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Tribuiani
said.

The immigrants said they never got documents letting them stay in the nation
legally, but they got something almost as important: driver licenses.

For $20,000, Avelina Hipolito of Indiantown said she and her husband got
documents from Crespo that they used to get state driver licenses. The documents
were merely receipts CINS sends out to confirm that applications had been
received. However, with Crespo's help, they used them to fool driver license
examiners.

When laws changed, requiring people to bring more documentation to driver
license bureaus, Crespo changed his tack. Instead of relying on the receipts, he
submitted phony police reports to CINS and told people to take them to bureaus,
too. People may stay in the country if they have been victims of crime and are
needed to testify in court.

Sotero Canastuj, who works at a Stuart golf course and came here illegally from
Guatemala, testified that Crespo gave him a police report saying he had been
robbed at gunpoint. Knowing he had never been robbed, Canastuj said he asked if
it was OK to use the report. "He said don't worry about it," Canastuj testified
through an interpreter. He said he paid Crespo nearly $5,000.

Hipolito, who came here illegally from Mexico, said Crespo gave her a similar
answer when she asked whether he could help her become a legal resident. "He
said yes, there would be no problem because he had a career, a family and a
future and he wasn't go to throw that away," she said through an interpreter.

Both insisted prosecutors had offered them no favors for their testimony.
Federal officials agreed they could stay in the country temporarily. However, a
federal agent said the two, along with others who paid Crespo for help, will be
taken before an immigration judge. Those who helped can tell the judge of their
assistance in hopes it will allow them to stay in the country.

The prosecution may not be over. Attorney Jason Kreiss called Salerno, the real
attorney, "the elephant in the room" throughout the two-day sentencing hearing.
Testimony showed his credit card was used to pay some application fees.

Salerno hasn't been charged. The Florida Bar said it is investigating a
complaint against him that involves fraudulent immigration documents.

~ jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Interest swarms Ariz. case ;
 The high court could set a precedent for Florida in a battle starting this
week.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1350 words


On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear the state of Arizona argue that it has
a right to enforce its own immigration laws.

The federal government will counter that only it has constitutional authority to
write immigration law and that allowing individual states to do so would invite
legal havoc and could cause rifts with foreign allies.

Since five other states also have recently passed strict immigration enforcement
laws, parts of which hinge on the Arizona outcome, many people -- including
illegal immigrants -- are watching the case closely.

"The stakes are high," said Florida International University law professor and
constitutional expert Elizabeth Price Foley. Not only is legal precedent in
play, but interaction between police and minorities on U.S. streets -- in
particular Latinos -- also could be affected.

While Florida has not passed its own immigration legislation, such bills have
bounced around the state legislature the past two years and the Arizona ruling
could affect future Florida law. Florida and 15 other states filed a brief with
the court in support of Arizona.

"States have a preexisting authority to make arrests based on violations of
federal law," that brief states.

Meanwhile, 11 states and 41 countries filed briefs siding with the federal
government, an indication of the resonance of the Arizona battle.

The case also has divided national organizations active on both sides of the
emotional immigration issue.

"SB 1070 is not only constitutional, but necessary in the face of the Obama
administration's refusal to enforce the law and protect the security and
interests of the American people," said the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, the most powerful conservative group active on the immigration issue.

But the liberal National Immigration Law Center sees it differently.

"Our country's greatness is derived from its diversity," said Executive Director
Marilena Hincapie. "No law should force those of us who look or sound 'foreign'
to be subject to racial profiling or other discrimination. Unfortunately,
Arizonans' basic rights will be at risk if SB 1070 is allowed to go into effect,
and the ramifications of this decision will be felt across the country."

Disputed sections of the law

In 2010, Arizona passed Senate Bill 1070, becoming the first state in the modern
era to try adopt its own immigration law. Federal courts subsequently let parts
of the law stand, but blocked others.

The Supreme Court is expected to rule in June on those disputed sections. One
section requires that Arizona state and local police determine the immigration
status of any person encountered in a lawful stop if "reasonable suspicion"
exists the person is not legally in the U.S.

The Arizona law also makes it a criminal act for a person to be in, work in or
seek work in the state without proper documents to prove that person is in the
U.S. legally. Under federal law, those are civil infractions, not criminal.

Another disputed section allows Arizona police to arrest people, without
warrants, expressly for the purpose of their being deported, a duty currently
overseen only by federal agents.

Justice Elena Kagan, who was solicitor general in the Obama administration when
the government sued Arizona, will not participate in the case. Her recusal
creates the possibility of a 4-4 vote. In that case, the verdict of the lower
courts would be upheld and Arizona would lose.

Legal experts say the case will hang on an issue known as "pre-emption," which
means that federal law supersedes state law if the two conflict. But Arizona is
arguing that it is not exceeding or violating federal law, simply helping
enforce it.

"S.B. 1070 does not impose its own substantive immigration standards, but simply
uses state resources to enforce federal rules," Arizona states in its brief.

Arizona officials say they were forced to act because the Arizona desert had
become the preferred route for throngs of illegal immigrants crossing into the
country and the U.S. was not doing enough to stop them. In its brief, the state
refers to the "relaxed and indeterminate enforcement posture" of the federal
government.

"No one doubts that unlawful immigration has a disproportionate impact on
Arizona," the brief says.

It's a national issue, U.S. says

In response, the U.S. asserts that the national government is responsible for
the treatment of foreign citizens on U.S. soil "because it is the nation as a
whole, not any single state, that must respond to the international consequences
of such treatment."

The government says enforcing immigration law involves numerous considerations,
including national security and law enforcement but also foreign policy and
humanitarian considerations.

"Arizona seeks to interpose its own judgments on those sensitive subjects," the
U.S. brief states. "Arizona has adopted its own immigration policy, which
focuses solely on maximum enforcement."

"For each state, and each locality, to set its own immigration policy in that
fashion would wholly subvert Congress' goal of a single national approach," the
brief says.

FIU's Price Foley said that, in deciding the case, the court must establish what
Congress intended when it passed the many regulations contained in the U.S.
Immigration and Nationality Act.

"Did Congress intend, when passing the current federal immigration law, to
occupy the field of immigration and not allow states to get involved?" she said.
"Or, alternatively, did Congress want states to help enforce immigration law?"

She said language exists in the act that says federal officials "shall respond
to an inquiry by a federal, state, or local government agency, seeking to verify
or ascertain the citizenship or immigration status of any individual."

That language suggests that Congress may have seen a role for states in
enforcing immigration law, "particularly in the identification of illegal
aliens," she said.

Price Foley sympathizes with the Arizona effort. "If the Arizona law is struck
down, the states will be fully at the mercy of a seemingly disinterested federal
executive branch, powerless to help stop the flow of illegal immigrants across
the borders," she said.

Experts: Ariz. has uphill fight

But Areto Imoukhuede, a Nova Southeastern University law professor, said he will
be very surprised if Arizona wins.

"Until this case came along, immigration was considered a textbook example of a
field of law that Congress occupied and not the states," he said. "If the court
were to rule for Arizona, it would be contrary to our understanding of
constitutional law."

He said Arizona would have to show a compelling legal reason for the court to
break with its long history of leaving immigration enforcement to the federal
government. He doubts that problems caused by the porous border will be reason
enough.

"If you have lawlessness along the border, how do you address it?" he asked. "Do
you pass a blanket law based on immigration status? Do you risk racial
profiling? Is that the only way to do it?"

He said he doesn't think so and that the Arizona law runs afoul of equal
protection principals in the Constitution.

University of Miami law professor Rebecca Sharpless also said Arizona faces an
uphill climb to win the case.

"To get around the pre-emption issue in the Supreme Court case, Arizona is
trying to sell its immigration enforcement regime as mere cooperation with the
federal government," she said. "But the Supreme Court is unlikely to buy what
Arizona is selling."

She said one reason is that a federal program -- 287-g -- already provides for
cooperation between the U.S. and states in immigration matters, but under the
direction of the U.S. She also said that while the conservative majority on the
court has often been sympathetic to states' rights in other cases, immigration
is different territory.

"The Supreme Court justices who have traditionally believed in state power have
also traditionally deferred to federal immigration authorities," she said. "It
will be interesting to see how the justices rule in the Arizona case."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE Immigration law Facts about Arizona v. U.S. Kagan out:
Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan, who was solicitor general in the Obama
administration when the government sued Arizona, will not participate. What if
the vote is a tie? The court's vote could come out a 4-4 tie. In that case, the
rulings of lower courts against major sections of the Arizona law would be
upheld. Familiar names: The same attorneys who argued the landmark health
carecase before the court on March 27 will argue this case: Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli for the U.S., and Paul Clement, an attorney in private practice
and former solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration, for Arizona.
Wider impact: Five states have passed immigration laws similar to Arizona's and
areeager to see how the court rules. They are Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah. Florida, too: Florida is one of 16 states that signed a brief
in support of Arizona.Z Facts about Arizona v. U.S. 12A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tell state it acted illegally

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Editorial, Wednesday, April 25

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 539 words


Arizona legislators kicked a hornet's nest when they wrote and passed their own
set of harsh and controversial immigration laws in 2010. The move inspired
similarly dangerous laws in other states and major battles over like-minded
proposals in Florida and elsewhere, and it further inflamed the too-shrill
national debate about immigration reform.

Not only are Arizona's laws, which make it a state crime to illegally be in the
country or look for work and broaden police authority to make immigration
arrests, wrongheaded, two federal courts have declared key parts
unconstitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court will weigh the merits in oral arguments
today, and if the justices strike down the law's controversial provisions, they
would do the entire country a service.

Allowing states to create immigration policies undermines the federal
government's constitutional responsibility to uniformly manage the complexities
of immigration law. Immigration has always been a federal responsibility. But
Arizona argues that the state had to act because enhanced policing along the
Mexican border in Texas and California steered more illegal border-crossers
toward Arizona, while the federal government did little to help.

The Obama administration counters that the number of agents along Arizona's
border with Mexico rose 40 percent between 2005 and 2010, to 4,000. More than
300 miles of fence have been built along Arizona's 350-mile border, and federal
officials say the number of illegal immigrants entering there appears to be
dropping. Indeed, a report this week suggests that more Mexicans now are leaving
the U.S. than entering.

Arizona claims that its laws are constitutional because they mirror federal law
and merely give state police expanded authority to enforce federal rules.
Because states have inherent police powers, Arizona argues, they are free to put
in place immigration laws so long as Congress has not explicitly barred states
from doing so and the local rules do not clash with federal policy.

This argument, however, overlooks the fact that Arizona's laws do substantially
change immigration law, most notably by making it a crime to work in the U.S.
illegally. Federal law prohibits illegal immigrants from working -- see:
Florida, E-Verify debate -- but imposes only civil penalties for doing so.

The distinction is significant. Criminalizing an act that Congress has chosen
not to criminalize means a different application of the law, one that Congress
never intended and that can confound the federal government's broader
enforcement goals. Expanding the authority of local police to make immigration
arrests beyond what Congress intended has a similar effect.

Enforcing immigration law is complex because it is an issue so large -- an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants live in the U.S. -- that federal
officials must prioritize their limited resources based on a host of economic,
political, diplomatic and financial concerns. Congress has created provisions so
that state authorities can cooperate in a limited capacity. Going beyond this
not only is unconstitutional, it encourages stereotyping and intolerance and
makes a true nationwide solution more elusive.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSARIZONA'S IMMIGRATION LAWOPINION:
THE   DEBATE STARTS HERE  Should the Supreme Court strike down Arizona's
immigration law? pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your
smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bill aims to keep foreign talent ;
 Immigrant graduates start businesses that add many jobs, studies show.

BYLINE: By Laura Green Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 788 words


WASHINGTON -- America's businesses have been slow to add enough jobs to
kick-start the economy. And immigration laws tell talented foreign students who
graduate from our best universities to take their Ph.D.s and start a business
back home.

Enter the Startup Act 2.0, a bipartisan bill built on data showing that the
majority of U.S. jobs created over 25 years were born out of businesses less
than 5 years old. Many of them came from businesses with at least one foreign
national at the helm, according to the Kauffman Foundation, which studies and
promotes entrepreneurship.

"The single greatest thing that we can do ... for our country today is help it
grow its economy," said Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., a sponsor of the bill.

"The economy is always grown when someone decides to take what little money they
have and use it to start a businessor to grow an existing business. There are
things government can do to make it easier for them."

In supporting the bill, Rubio is straddling immigration policy -- backing visas
for foreign nationals studying in the United States, but not a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought here by their parents as
children and may have attended American schools since kindergarten.

At a news conference Tuesday, Rubio was asked whether his bill might include
provisions of the Dream Act, meant to create citizens out of children brought to
the country illegally.

"I do not anticipate the issue of how to help children who are in this country
through no fault of their own" would end up in this legislation, Rubio said.

Rather than the full citizenship immigration advocates seek, Rubio has endorsed
creating special visas, much like this legislation would for foreign students,
for undocumented children who attend college or join the military.

Sponsors of the Startup Act acknowledged Tuesday that the immigration changes
may be the most controversial part of the legislation.

The bill would create a visa for as many as 50,000 foreign students earning a
master's or Ph.D. from an American university in science, technology,
engineering or math.

It would allow an additional 75,000 "immigrant entrepreneurs" to stay in the
country if they have completed graduate work in one of those fields, registered
a new business that employs at least two full-time staffers who are not family,
and invested or raised at least $100,000 in capital.

AOL co-founder Steve Case, a member of President Obama's Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, attended the news conference in a sign the White House would
support the legislation.

Case said it's "crazy" that the U.S. invites foreign students to its
universities and then kicks them out. It's the equivalent, he said, of allowing
Chinese students to attend the U.S. Naval Academy, teaching them our naval
secrets and sending them home to exploit them in the Chinese military.

"We are in a global competition for talent," agreed Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va.

If today's immigration policies were in place during the 1980s and '90s, Warner
said, most of the "innovation explosion" in technology in the '90s probably
would not have occurred.

Democrats have previously refused to support what they believe are half-measures
instead of taking up comprehensive immigration reform. And some Republicans have
been reluctant to expand the number of immigrants allowed in the country. The
law caps by country the numbers permitted to remain in the U.S.

The legislation contains other provisions unlikely to whip up emotion from
either party. The bill builds on the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which
was passed with bipartisan support and recently signed by Obama.

That bill concentrated on building capital for American businesses. The new bill
would provide more research and development tax credits for startups and funnel
research funding to American universities working to commercialize new
technologies. The bill would permanently extend a capital gains tax exemption
for investments held at least five years for small companies.

The legislation also seeks to limit regulation that can hurt startups by
requiring federal agencies to run a cost-benefit analysis on new rules and
consider alternatives that might accomplish the same goals.

Passing the bill could signal to Americans that Congress is capable of getting
something done in an election year, Rubio said.

"Even in an election year, even with all big issues we disagree on ... we are
still able to do things we agree on," Rubio said.

laura_green@pbpost.com

NATIONALITIES of degree holders

Master's and doctorate degrees in computer science, engineering and math awarded
in 2009 to foreign nationals:

India 53,510

China 31,290

South Korea 6,490

Taiwan 4,360

Turkey 2,200

Source: Department of Homeland Security

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST IN WASHINGTON  JOBS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawyers: Party exec bilked immigrants ;
 County Democrat's fees based on lies, they allege.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1418 words


WEST PALM BEACH -- Two South Florida immigration attorneys have filed a
complaint with the Florida Bar against a prominent Palm Beach County Democratic
Party official, charging that he defrauded immigrants by falsely claiming to be
working with the two attorneys and collecting fees without their knowledge.

Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach and Cynthia Arevalo of Aventura have accused
Clarence Shahid Freeman, the president of the City of Boynton Beach Democratic
Club and a member of the county's Democratic Executive Committee, with unlawful
practice of law.

The accusation stems from more than a dozen instances in which Latin American
immigrants, mostly Brazilians trying to win legal status in the U.S., paid
Freeman to intercede in their cases. Freeman is not an attorney. He has a county
license to do business in "community outreach."

In an email to The Palm Beach Post, Freeman denied wrongdoing.

"I have never stolen anything from anyone," Freeman said, "nor did I ever do
business as an attorney."

The attorneys see it differently.

"He was taking money from immigrants and deceptively telling them that Attorney
Aileen Josephs and/or attorney Cynthia Arevalo were being retained to work on
their cases," the complaint says. "The fact is, neither one asked for nor
received any money for consultation on those cases."

Freeman also served for a time early this year as an officer of the new
Brazilian American Democratic Club based in Boca Raton. The attorneys say it was
through that club that Freeman made most of his contacts.

According to emails exchanged by attorneys and Brazilian club officers, people
who paid Freeman primarily wanted their deportation dates delayed and help
getting immigration authorities to remove electronic monitoring devices that
keep track of them.

Lawyer 'never got paid'

The Brazilian club compiled a list of 15 individuals and families who had paid
Freeman between $100 and $750 each. An officer, Robin Blanchard, prepared a
report outlining what she thought had to be done in 11 of those cases. In 10
cases, she said the money should be returned.

One was the case of Laryssa Oliveira, who provided a statement included with the
Bar complaint.

"I am involved in the Brazilian Democratic Club," she wrote. "There I met a man
called Shahid Freeman who claimed he helped immigrants. He told me that he could
help me with my case and that he worked with lawyers.

"He told me to write him a check for $750 that would be for fees for Attorney
Aileen Josephs, who he said would be my attorney," she wrote, adding that she
later spoke with Josephs. "Ms. Josephs told me she did review my case but never
got paid."

In an interview, Josephs said she never asked nor expected to be paid. She said
the only work she did for Oliveira was to write what she calls "A Letter of
Protection." In the past year, the Obama administration altered its deportation
policies and announced that it would allow many people who have been in the
country for years and not had serious troubles with the law to stay in the U.S.
at least temporarily.

Josephs said she has composed letters for people who meet the requirements,
stating how long they had been in the country and that they had no criminal
record. The letter has no legal power, but Josephs said she hoped that
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents seeing it would not detain those
immigrants if they encountered them.

"It's a strategy I thought of to help people, but I never think of charging for
writing that kind of letter," Josephs said. "I wrote three of those letters for
Shahid pro bono and told him I didn't charge for that, but later I found out
that he was charging the people. He was lying to them and saying I was going to
be their lawyer and Cynthia was going to be their lawyer, and that was what the
money was for, and that is fraud."

Money in envelopes

According to the list prepared by the Brazilian club, Freeman received $7,300
from the 15 Brazilian individuals and families.

Josephs said that in December, Freeman left an envelope with her receptionist
with either $50 or $100 inside. She said she did not know at the time that
Freeman was taking money from the people she wrote the letters for and assumed
the cash was from Freeman for favors she did for him -- not only writing the
letters, but other favors over the last several years, such as speaking at
events he organized. She said he did not ask for receipts.

Josephs said she has since sent $100 to Oliveira to repay her and would do the
same for the other two families but cannot get their addresses from the
Brazilian club. Oliveira confirmed receiving the money from Josephs.

Freeman in an email claimed he had left four envelopes at Josephs' office but
gave no total amount. He claimed he asked for receipts but didn't receive them.
Two workers at Josephs' office who would have received such payments denied
Freeman's claims and so did Josephs.

"That's a lie," Josephs said.

Freeman was asked by The Post to provide the names of all cases he worked on,
amounts received, work performed and expenses incurred. He declined, saying he
was acting on the advice of attorneys.

One Brazilian man did contact The Post to say he had paid Freeman $700 and
credited him with getting his family's ankle monitors removed and getting their
deportation date delayed. He asked that his name not be used.

"Clarence helped guide our attorney in the right direction to getting our
monitors taken off," he wrote in an email. "Clarence Freeman was very attentive,
provided support and gave us hope. I only have positive things to say about him.
Clarence Freeman has been a blessing in our family's lives. We are truly honored
to have met him."

Freeman also has won many friends in the county for civil rights work and work
for the Democratic Party. But some Hispanic Democratic Party leaders have turned
against Freeman over the immigration incidents, demanding he be removed from
party leadership.

Colombian family's case

Democratic Executive Committee member Peter Camacho referred one Colombian
family to Freeman and said that family paid Freeman $1,250.

Javier Rincon; his wife, Luz; and their three children have been in the U.S.
since 2001, fighting to gain political asylum. Under an ICE program called the
Intensive Supervision Appearance Program, the Rincons were allowed to continue
their legal fight as long as they reported to immigration officials regularly
and all members of the family wore electronic monitors on their ankles.

Late last year, Camacho referred the family to Freeman for help, and Freeman
went to the Rincons' West Palm Beach home Jan. 9.

"He showed us a photo of him and Bill Clinton and said he was an adviser to
Clinton," Luz Rincon said. "Supposedly he had good relations with (Sen.) Bill
Nelson and told us he knew Obama and Michelle Obama. He said we should write our
story and he would take photos of us and get that to the first lady. He told us
he could get us citizenship."

But the Rincons said Freeman didn't help them. In fact, they said he adversely
affected their relations with immigration authorities. They had been told to buy
at least one airline ticket back to Colombia and bring it to a Jan. 29 meeting
with immigration officials in Delray Beach.

"He told us not to do that, because if we did we would be sure to be deported,"
she said. "He told us ISAP officers were behind the scenes run by the tea party
and weren't even controlled by Obama."

'He just played with us'

The Rincons said that at the meeting Freeman told immigration officials he
worked for Nelson's office. The immigration officials called Nelson's office and
were told that wasn't true.

Nelson's office confirmed to The Post that Freeman had been contacted and told
to stop claiming he worked for the senator.

The outcome of that meeting, according to the Rincons, was that not only were
their monitors not removed, they were put on curfews that forced them to be at
home much more. The Rincons did get their monitors off eventually, but they said
that was after they were helped by the office of a Broward County immigration
attorney, Darren Covar.

Freeman later claimed credit, they said. "But it wasn't Shahid Freeman who
helped us," Luz Rincon said. "He just played with us."

They said they want their $1,250 back and documents of theirs that Freeman still
has.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

FIRST OF TWO PARTS

Today:A complaint of defrauding immigrants is filed against a prominent
Democratic Party official.

Monday: Hispanic leaders say party chairman failed to act after being informed.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Post EXCLUSIVEImmigration COMPLAINTPost  Exclusive  Immigrationcomplaint

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 2, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Whom do Dems care about? ;
 A party official or immigrant voters?

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Editorial, Saturday, June 2

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 254 words


If Palm Beach County Democrats don't handle complaints about party official
Clarence Shahid Freeman carefully, they could get whipsawed on immigration the
way Republicans already have been.

Florida's GOP courts Hispanics, particularly Cuban-Americans, but concocted a
voter-roll purge that flagged legal Hispanic voters.

As Post reporter John Lantigua revealed in a two-part series this week,
immigration lawyers Aileen Josephs and Cynthia Arevalo have filed a complaint
with the Florida Bar accusing Mr. Freeman of the unlawful practice of law. Mr.
Freeman is president of the Boynton Beach Democratic Club, is on Palm Beach
County's Democratic Executive Committee and was an officer of the Brazilian
American Democratic Club based in Boca Raton.

The lawyers say Mr. Freeman, who is not a lawyer, improperly took money from
immigrants to intercede in immigration cases and used his Democratic connections
to drum up business. Mr. Freeman says he has done nothing wrong.

Immigrant advocates also say county Democratic Party Chairman Mark Alan Siegel
should strip Mr. Freeman of his party posts. Mr. Siegel told The Post he can't
make Mr. Freeman return any fees or unilaterally oust him. "We are not the
courts and we are not the police," Mr. Siegel said.

No, but they are a party that wants votes from people like those who are
complaining about Mr. Freeman. Ignoring this problem and expecting it to blow
over would make the Democrats sound like a party that doesn't want those votes.

Jac Wilder VerSteeg for the Editorial Board.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWS A POST EXCLUSIVE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

new citizens eager to vote ;
 Immigration edict inspires many to back the president.

BYLINE: By Ana M. Valdes Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 712 words


Royal Palm Beach -- The 79 men and women sworn in as U.S. citizens at a ceremony
in Royal Palm Beach on Monday walked out with an American flag, a naturalization
certificate and one other document many consider equally important: a voter
registration form.

Many of these new citizens, mostly Hispanic and Haitian immigrants, are certain
they will vote in November's general election and plan to register by the Oct. 9
deadline.

Some have even made up their minds that they will vote to re-elect President
Obama, after his administration's order last week allowing more than 800,000
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States without fear of deportation. A
Latino Decisions poll published Sunday showed 49 percent of Latinos, who already
backed Obama 3-1, now support the president more enthusiastically because of the
order.

But others on Monday said job creation and health care are as important as
immigration reform and hesitated to commit their support to Obama or Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney.

Colombian Luis Aldana, 53, said immigration reform is an important issue for
him. But Obama's decision last week will not affect his vote in November.

"It was a very comforting decision, but I wish he would have made that decision
a lot sooner," said Aldana, of Wellington. As a mathematics teacher in Belle
Glade, he said, he has seen how unemployment affects communities and will
support a candidate with a strong plan to create jobs.

"But as they say, better late than never," he said of Obama's decision.

Maria S. Perez, 71, of Clewiston, said the administration's order was exactly
what she needed to help make up her mind about the presidential election.

"It was a magnificent step and a wonderful opportunity because those students
deserve it. They are here working hard and sacrificing themselves for this
country," said Perez, who left her native Cuba 15 years ago.

Haiti native Pierre Richard Durandis, 37, of Delray Beach, said Obama's move
"was good news for me." But Durandis would have supported Obama regardless, he
said. "I like him. He's the nation's first black president."

The administration's order makes illegal immigrants immune from deportation if
they were brought to the U.S. before they turned 16 and are younger than 30,
have been in the country for at least five continuous years, have no criminal
history, graduated from a U.S. high school or earned a GED diploma or
certificate, or served in the military.

In essence, undocumented young people who would have been covered by failed
legislation known as the Dream Act will be allowed to stay in the U.S. for the
next two years without having to worry about deportation. That permission will
be renewable and they also can apply for work permits.

The Dream Act -- which would offer legal status to individuals who were brought
to the U.S. before age 16, have lived here five years and fit several other
criteria -- has never won enough votes in Congress despite several tries, the
latest in 2010.

Romney has not said whether he would revoke the order if elected president. He
has suggested Obama's decision was motivated by politics, since the order was
issued only months before the November election, in which the Latino vote could
be crucial.

At Monday's ceremony at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services field
office, one of several World Refugee Day events held across Florida, family
members shot photos of the newly sworn-in citizens from 20 countries as they
sang along to Lee Greenwood's God Bless the U.S.A.

The new citizens, holding small American flags, also watched a recorded message
from Obama, telling them that as citizens they have a responsibility to
contribute to their communities.

Cuban Judith Gonzalez, 40, who lives in West Palm Beach, said she was happy to
hear Obama take a stand on illegal immigration but is undecided about whom to
support in November and would consider Romney's proposals to reduce
unemployment.

"These are kids who come to this country and receive scholarships, but because
they are not citizens, they cannot take advantage of these opportunities,"
Gonzalez said. "But I want to see improvements in the workforce, a more firm
stance on immigrant issues."

Staff writer Patricia Potestades contributed to this story.ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanic leaders hail Obama in Fla. ;
 Eased immigration policy 'right thing to do,' he says.

BYLINE: By George Bennett Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 814 words


LAKE BUENA VISTA -- President Obama blamed Republicans for blocking immigration
reform Friday and got a standing ovation from a national group of Hispanic
elected officials for his recent order temporarily lifting the threat of
deportation for as many as 1.4 million young people whose parents brought them
to the U.S. illegally.

Obama spoke to about 1,000 members of the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials at Walt Disney World a day after presumptive Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney received a more muted reception from the
Democratic-leaning group.

Obama also campaigned in Tampa later in the day, appearing before about 3,000
students and others at Hillsborough Community College. On the short flight
between Orlando and Tampa, he phoned Miami Heat coach Erik Spoelstra to
congratulate him for Thursday night's NBA championship.

The NALEO convention and the presidential candidates' appearances underscored
the importance of the Hispanic vote in several hotly contested states, including
Florida. The speeches also showed the potency of the immigration issue in the
general election.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who spoke about two hours before Obama, said he wanted
to talk about jobs and the economy but changed his plans because "both my head
and my heart tell me that today perhaps we are as close as we've ever been to a
critical turning point in the debate about immigration."

Obama, who won the Hispanic vote by roughly a 2-1 margin in 2008, energized many
Latinos last week when he bypassed Congress and issued a directive halting
deportations of people who are younger than 30 and were brought to the U.S. as
children by parents who were not citizens.

"In the face of a Congress that refuses to do anything on immigration, I've said
that I'll take action wherever I can," Obama said.

He criticized Republicans for opposing the Dream Act, which would create a path
to citizenship for younger undocumented immigrants who finish high school and go
to college or serve in the military.

"They are Americans," Obama said of the estimated 800,000 to 1.4 million people
affected by his order. "In their hearts, in their minds they are Americans
through and through, in every single way but on paper. And all they want is to
go to college and give back to the country they love. So lifting the shadow of
deportation and giving them a reason to hope, that was the right thing to do."

Obama got a standing ovation for his immigration directive and also when he
mentioned the federal health care law, which he said would allow 9 million
Hispanics to get insurance.

Romney criticized Obama's immigration order Thursday, calling it a "stopgap
measure" rather than a permanent solution. But Romney did not specify what he'd
do as president with the people covered by Obama's order.

Obama conceded his order "falls short of where we need to be -- a path to
citizenship. It's not a permanent fix."

Obama noted that Romney, whom he never mentioned by name, took a stance against
the Dream Act during the Republican primaries.

"Your speaker from yesterday has a different view. In his speech he said when he
makes a promise he'll keep it. Well, he has promised to veto the Dream Act and
we should take him at his word," Obama said.

Though Obama was enthusiastically received by most of the crowd, Alfonso Aguilar
of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles accused the president of
failing to pass comprehensive reform dealing with the estimated 12 million
people in the U.S. illegally.

"The sheer reality, and Latinos are aware of this, is that he promised
immigration reform the first year of his administration. He had a House and a
Democratic Senate and he didn't do anything to push immigration reform," Aguilar
said.

But Aguilar acknowledged that Romney and other Republicans will have an uphill
struggle wooing Hispanic voters.

"Historically Latinos have identified with the Democratic Party," Aguilar said,
"and I admit there are many Republicans who have said terrible things about
immigrants."

At Hillsborough Community College, Obama seized on a story in The Washington
Post about investments by Romney's private equity firm, Bain Capital, in
companies that were described as "pioneers" in outsourcing jobs to low-wage
countries such as China and India.

"We don't need an outsourcing pioneer in the Oval Office," Obama said, according
to The Associated Press.

Obama said his tax proposal would stop giving tax breaks to businesses that send
jobs overseas and offer incentives for companies that bring jobs back to the
U.S.

Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said the Washington Post story did not
differentiate between "domestic outsourcing" and "offshoring" and didn't take
into account work done overseas to support U.S. exports. Romney would "make it
easier and more attractive for companies to create jobs here at home," Saul
said.

george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST on politics  presidential racePost on Politics: Presidential race

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Democrat faces fraud probe ;
 The sheriff's office will look into his dealings with immigrants. The Florida
Bar is also asking questions.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 795 words


The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office said Thursday that it has begun a fraud
investigation against a prominent Palm Beach County Democratic Party official
over claims that he collected fees from people for help with their immigration
cases -- help those immigrants say they did not receive.

Also, the Florida Bar Association has sent a letter to that same member of the
county Democratic Executive Committee, Clarence Shahid Freeman, demanding that
he answer charges that he has been practicing law without a license.

In a letter dated June 19, a Bar official advised Freeman that he has until
Monday to answer charges brought by two South Florida attorneys. The letter to
Freeman, from Bar counsel Janet Bradford Morgan, advised him that the unlicensed
practice of law is a felony.

Immigration attorneys Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach and Cynthia Arrevalo of
Aventura filed a joint complaint with the Bar in March claiming that Freeman,
who is not a lawyer, collected fees for help with immigration cases, telling the
clients that some of the money was to be paid to the attorneys. Josephs and
Arrevalo said that was not true.

Freeman denied ever claiming he was an attorney, and none of the immigrants
involved said he claimed to be a lawyer. But in the letter, Morgan identified a
family and four individuals who Freeman allegedly counseled on their immigration
cases and she requested further information on his dealings with them.

"Include a detailed description of your relationship with each of the
individuals/families named in the complaint and how you met them," the letter
states. "Did you offer to provide or provide services to any of these persons?
Did you accept fees from any of them and, if so, what were those fees for?"

Among those mentioned in the letter were Javier Rincon and his wife and three
children of West Palm Beach, Colombian immigrants who claimed Freeman took a
$1,250 fee from them for help in trying to delay their deportation date and for
help getting immigration authorities to remove electronic monitoring anklets
they were all forced to wear. The family claimed Freeman did not help them and
kept the money and documents they need.

The Rincons filed a fraud complaint against Freeman with the sheriff's office
last month, and the agency confirmed Thursday that an investigation is under
way.

"And there are other people who want their money back but are afraid to go the
police," Josephs said Thursday. She is hoping the sheriff's office's
investigation will also help retrieve money other immigrants gave to Freeman.

Four other former clients of Freeman were named in the Bar letter. All are
thought to be Brazilian immigrants.

For a brief time early this year, Freeman served as an officer of the new
Brazilian American Democratic Club, based in Boca Raton. It was through his
involvement in getting that club off the ground that he made contact with many
of the immigrants he later counseled on their immigration cases.

A study of emails that originated with Freeman, Josephs and Brazilian club
members and officers indicate what Freeman offered, largely, was to intercede
with immigration officials the way he said he would for the Rincons -- seeking
delays of deportation dates and removal of tracking anklets.

At one point, while accompanying the Rincons to an appointment, Freeman told
immigration authorities that he worked for Florida Sen. Bill Nelson. A staff
member from Nelson's office said Freeman never worked for Nelson, and she said
she contacted him and told him to stop claiming that he did.

Freeman was asked by The Palm Beach Post last month to provide records of what
he did for immigrants he collected fees from and what services he performed. He
replied that on the advice of counsel he would not do so.

Freeman has denied wrongdoing and in a March 8 email to a member of the
Democratic Executive Committee, Peter Camacho, he said he would not return money
he received from immigrants. Based on an investigation done by an officer of the
Brazilian club, Freeman received a total $7,300 from members of the Brazilian
club, in addition to the $1,250 from the Rincons.

Freeman's activities caused Hispanic members of the Democratic Executive
Committee to complain to county party Chairman Mark Alan Siegel. When Siegel
said he could not remove Freeman from the committee due to procedural
roadblocks, Hispanic leaders complained that Siegel was not protecting the
Hispanic community. Camacho called for Siegel's removal as party chairman and
others complained about his leadership.

Freeman, Siegel said, was later removed from his 2012 campaign position as a
get-out-the-vote organizer, but he still remains a member of the executive
committee and president of the City of Boynton Beach Democratic Club.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  immigration  democratic official investigated

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cross the political border

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 516 words


One of the biggest broken promises of President Obama's first term was his vow
to push for comprehensive immigration reform. The president said he would do so
his first year in office, but he never took it up. Until he gave a vague speech
at a city along the Texas border last year about the need for change -- an event
dismissed as a rev-up for his reelection campaign -- it seemed as if he had
forgotten the issue.

Yet Hispanic voters still flocked to the president Tuesday, assuring his victory
over Mitt Romney and prompting anxiety among Republicans about the future of the
GOP in a rapidly Latinizing nation. Polls showed Latinos supporting Mr. Obama
over Mr. Romney, who took a hard line on immigration issues, by a more than
70-30 margin nationwide. Mr. Romney's share of the Latino vote was lower than
that of any GOP presidential candidate in the previous three elections.

The immigration reform issue is hardly the only reason for Latinos' tilt toward
the Democratic Party. As Slate's Matthew Yglesias observed, Latinos tend to be a
liberal voting bloc in any event. But their historic repudiation of Mr. Romney
sends a strong message that the key issue of immigration reform needs to be at
the top of both parties' agenda next year.

Moderate Democrats and Republicans generally agree on the broad form that
comprehensive immigration reform must take: improved security at the Mexican
border, more temporary worker visas, better opportunities for highly skilled
workers to immigrate, stronger enforcement of laws prohibiting illegal workers
and some path to citizenship for otherwise law-abiding people already in the
country illegally.

Understanding the close-the-borders-first politics of the issue, Mr. Obama
worked to create the conditions for compromise, adding border patrols, deporting
record numbers of illegal immigrants and cracking down on businesses that employ
undocumented workers. But, distracted by the economy and the battle over health
care reform, he never pushed for legislation to change the nation's immigration
laws. Even if he had, Republicans bent on crushing his agenda would have blocked
it.

With the DREAM Act, which would offer a path to citizenship for many immigrants
brought illegally as children, stuck, President Obama this year used
administrative fiat to put in place a stripped-down version. In June, he
announced a two-year reprieve from deportations for young illegal immigrants.
Mr. Romney, significantly, said he opposed both this and the DREAM Act itself,
though he sought in the final weeks of the campaign to moderate his stance.

This hard, impractical line cannot stand, and one result from the election
should be a more reasonable tone from GOP congressional leaders who have stymied
progress for years. Comprehensive reform, done properly, can make it easier to
enter the country legally and harder to work here illegally, and allow millions
who live here without existing officially to become taxpaying members of
society. On Tuesday, President Obama got a second chance to keep his promise on
immigration.

Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Opposing forces keep immigration in limbo

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1381 words


U.S. Rep Alcee Hastings, a Democrat, isn't worried Republicans will reject a
comprehensive overhaul of immigration law in the next Congress. In fact, his
fear is just the opposite.

"I'm worried Republicans will jump ahead of us and do something on immigration
reform before we do," said Hastings, of Miramar. "(GOP House Speaker) John
Boehner could put something on the table that has a chance of passing and then
take credit for it. Sitting back the way the Obama administration has done has
been a mistake. A bill should be produced by the administration now."

Before the Nov. 6 election, Hastings' statement would have seemed to come from
another planet, or at least another country.

GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney had taken a hard line on immigration,
saying life should be made so difficult for the 11 million undocumented people
in the country that they would leave on their own.

But President Barack Obama won re-election, beating Romney 71 to 26 percent
among Hispanic voters, and suddenly there is talk that immigration reform is not
only possible, but that it will be addressed early in the new Congress.

Republicans have already started offering bills. Early last week, three
Republican senators presented a version of the Dream Act that would help select
undocumented young people become legal. And the Republican-controlled House
voted Friday to make green cards accessible to foreign students graduating with
advanced science and math degrees from U.S. universities, a bill unlikely to go
anywhere this session of Congress as Democrats say it is too narrowly tailored.

"I think the Republicans realize if they don't back immigration reform,
Hispanics will be voting Democrat for eons," said Hastings, whose district
includes part of Palm Beach County.

Boehner, who opposed immigration reform when President George W. Bush tried it
in 2007, now says he's "confident" it can pass. The major goals would be border
security, identifying and registering illegal immigrants and addressing labor
needs.

"A comprehensive approach is long overdue," Boehner told ABC News, "and I'm
confident that the president, myself, others can find the common ground to take
care of this issue once and for all."

Meanwhile, in the U.S. Senate, Democrats Charles Schumer of New York and Bob
Menendez of New Jersey and Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina are said
to be hammering out a bill separate from the Dream Act bill offered by
Republican Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl of Arizona and Kay Bailey Hutchison of
Texas.

But attorney Rob Williams of Migrant Farmworker Justice Project Florida Legal
Services, based in Tallahassee, said it could be hard to avoid a filibuster in
the Senate. And the House Immigration Subcommittee is stocked with conservatives
who could continue to fight any overhaul. He said a piecemeal approach, whether
a version of the Dream Act, an increase in visas for high tech foreign workers
or special legislation directed at farmworkers might get the ball rolling.

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Americans for Immigrant Justice, the
Miami-based advocacy group, agreed with Williams that it won't be easy.

"But when is immigration ever easy?" she said. "We are very eager to seize the
moment, but the devil is going to be in the details."

P ath to citizenship

Little defends illegal immigrants in court when they are captured by agents. Her
hopes begin there.

"We would like the end of deportation of people who have been here for years and
especially those that have children here," she said. "I hope that one day soon
we will see the end of the tearing apart of families."

But Little, like many other immigrant advocates, also has a more ambitious goal.

"We need to provide these people a path to citizenship," she said. "Anything
else than that will create a society with a permanent subclass. Boehner is a
smart guy. We hope he will step up to the plate."

Attorney Greg Schell, also of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project but based
in Lake Worth, agreed that the best answer for many immigrants is legal
residency with a chance at citizenship. But he said that will not solve the
entire problem.

Filling menial jobs

In 1986, President Ronald Reagan granted amnesty to more than 2.5 million
illegal immigrants. That law stipulated that from then forward, it would be
illegal for employers to hire undocumented people.

But after those immigrants became legal, they left menial jobs and moved into
less punishing, often higher-wage positions. More illegal immigrants arrived to
take their places. The government did not enforce the laws and did not prosecute
the employers. Schell said the same thing could happen again.

"So on top of the people here who will be legalized, there will have to be
guestworker programs to fill those other low wage jobs," he said. That could
require several million more workers.

The U.S. has guest worker programs covering agriculture, other low paying jobs
-- including country club workers in Palm Beach County -- and for some
profession s. But the people on those visas number in the tens of thousands, not
millions.

"It would be a much bigger guest worker program than we've ever had in this
country," Schell said. "It would be a guestworker program on steroids."

Because guestworkers could take jobs from U.S. workers by accepting lower wages
and no benefits, unions and organizations representing minorities are expected
to pay close attention to any immigration negotiations.

Fair treatment

Guestworker laws require that employers pay for transport of most workers from
their native countries; provide housing -- although in some cases workers can be
charged for it; and pay wages set by the U.S. Labor Department. Most guestworker
visas are good for less than a year.

Schell said he hopes unions will lean on Democrats in Congress to make sure that
guest workers and U.S. workers are treated fairly. Guestworker visas tie workers
to one employer and if a worker leaves that job, he or she must leave the U.S.

"This leads to instances of mistreatment of guest workers," Schell said. He said
guestworkers should be given more freedom to change employers. He also said the
visas could be for longer periods of time, maybe as long as three years.

While Little would prefer one sweeping bill, Schell said that to make the entire
scheme work, guestworker programs will have to be implemented first so as not to
provoke more illegal immigration.

"You'll have to do that or this is going to be a huge mess," he said. "The other
question will be if there is anyone who has the backbone to enforce the law this
time with the employers, because if you don't, you'll also have a big mess."

Mike Carlton, spokesman for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, the
state's largest agricultural organization, said his industry hopes for reform.
"The window is open more now than it has been."

Over the past two years, the immigration debate was influenced by "xenophobic"
voices that spouted strong anti-immigrant rhetoric, Carlton said. But he said
the election seems to have changed that. "Some eyes seem to have been opened."

At least 75 percent of Florida farmworkers are illegal, which makes growers
vulnerable. Georgia growers say they lost tens of millions of dollars in profits
starting in 2011 after legislators passed a law that requires employers to
confirm the legality of all workers. Florida growers don't want that to happen
to them.

Carlton said long-term agricultural workers should be given a path to
citizenship if they want it and he agreed with Schell that reform must be done
in stages, with agricultural guest workers as a logical first step.

Agricultural fields are one area where U.S. citizens have shown they do not want
to work.

"We can't let 'ag' be the tail of this dog," Carlton said.

Hastings is hopeful a fair bill can emerge. He said there are immigrants who
have lived illegally in the U.S. for decades.

"They are like the Palestinians in Jordan," he said. "They are never going
home."

Hastings said he once worked in Palm Beach County picking beans and that he has
another important thing in common with illegal workers.

"In the segregation era, I was always afraid I was going to be in the wrong
place at the wrong time," he said. "I think I know how they feel. This can be
done. It must be done."

jlantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP crossing over?

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 423 words


From the perspective of at least one South Florida congressman, the big question
regarding immigration reform isn't whether it will happen soon. It's which party
will get to it first.

"I'm worried Republicans will jump ahead of us and do something ...before we
do," U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, told The Post's John Lantigua. That's
an encouraging signal that, after years of Republican obstinacy, reaction from
this year's elections has set the stage for broad agreement on this complex,
emotional issue.

Last week, three Republican senators filed a version of the DREAM Act, which
would create a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants who were brought
to the country as young children. The GOP-controlled House voted to expand
access to work visas for foreigners who graduate from U.S. universities with
advanced degrees in math or science.

There is sure to be plenty of back and forth on these and much broader
immigration issues. The House bill to expand work visas for foreigners, for
instance, is expected to face opposition in the Democratic-controlled Senate.
Look for many dust-ups to come, along with debates about whether immigration
reform should be settled in small legislative pieces or one massive bill. At
this point, one all-encompassing bill seems like the best approach.

Yet the broad agreement seems to be that comprehensive immigration reform needs
to take place, and that it is politically expedient for both parties to do so.
This will be a welcome change from recent years, when the issue was used to chum
the parties' respective bases. Republicans in Congress have blocked measures
like the DREAM Act for years, and President Barack Obama, after promising to
push for comprehensive immigration reform in his first year in office, never
took up the issue.

But in the presidential election, Latino voters supported Mr. Obama over Mitt
Romney by more than a 70 percent to 30 percent margin, prompting rounds of
soul-searching within the GOP. With Latinos emerging as a critical voting bloc,
many Republican leaders suddenly are embracing the need to change immigration
laws. In general, a comprehensive package should include better enforcement --
and not just on the Mexican border -- and a path to citizenship for the
otherwise law-abiding millions of illegal immigrants who have been living here
for years.

For Republicans, this is a surprising new tune. But if it's one that leads to
real and important change, rather than mere rhetoric, let them whistle away.

Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla. sour on immigrant tuition break ;
 State political climate cool to in-state college fees, as issue becomes debate
topic.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1062 words


Texas Gov. Rick Perry has created a hornet's nest of controversy in conservative
circles by defending his Texas policy of offering in-state tuition to
undocumented students.

It is one of the deviations from conservative orthodoxy that has brought Perry
strife in Florida, especially in tea party circles. Florida does not allow
undocumented students to pay in-state tuition.

Down the line, conservatives may have other high-profile figures to question on
the issue: Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, a tea party favorite and GOP vice
presidential possibility, once backed a bill similar to the Texas law when he
was in the Florida Legislature.

But for now it is Perry taking the heat.

"If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state for
no other reason than they have been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart," Perry said in the GOP presidential debate
Thursday in Orlando.

He was reiterating what he had said during a debate in Tampa.

"If you're working towards your college degree and if you are working and
pursuing citizenship in the state of Texas, you pay in-state tuition there,"
Perry explained. "And the bottom line is, it doesn't make any difference what
the sound of your last name is. That is the American way."

But it isn't the way in Florida and most other states.

Illegal status blocks education aid

"No, we can't get in-state tuition, no matter how long we've lived here," said
Manuel Guerra of Indiantown, a local high school graduate originally from Mexico
who has lived in South Florida without legal status for more than 10 years.
"That keeps a lot of people from going to college because they can't afford it."

Out-of-state tuition rates are generally three to four times higher than those
paid by residents.

"And we can't apply for Bright Futures money, no matter the grades we get in
high school," Guerra said, referring the state's college scholarship fund for
successful secondary students.

Florida's pre-paid tuition plans also require that any person starting an
account have a valid Social Security number, which excludes the undocumented.

Attempts during the last legislative session to create a law almost identical to
the Texas law failed in the GOP-controlled Senate and House.

Senate Bill 318, introduced by Democrat Gary Siplin of Orlando, and House Bill
55, written by Democrat Dwight Bullard of Miami, both stipulated that
undocumented students who had graduated high school or earned equivalency
diplomas and who had spent at least three years studying at the high school
level in Florida could qualify for in-state tuition.

The bills failed to leave committees, although five Republicans backed the
Senate version, including Ellyn Bogdanoff of Fort Lauderdale and former GOP
House Speaker John Thrasher of Jacksonville.

States grant exceptions to federal law

A 1996 federal law prohibits public colleges and universities from granting
in-state tuition to undocumented students unless states enact laws granting
exceptions. According to analyses by Florida legislative staff, Texas,
California, New York, Utah, Illinois, Washington, Nebraska, New Mexico,
Maryland, Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Kansas have passed laws providing in-state
tuition to undocumented students who meet certain conditions.

Perry signed the Texas law in 2001 and it has given tuition breaks to more than
32,000 students at Texas colleges. Even tea party members have defended the
policy there, citing Texas' long border with Mexico and long history of Mexican
immigration, legal and illegal.

But the idea does not go over as well with tea party members in Florida.

"Why should we give illegal aliens those breaks, when other Americans from other
states don't get that break?" said Palm Beach County Tea Party spokesman Everett
Wilkinson. "Also, if a Floridian goes to Texas to school he ends up paying
$100,000 more for college than an illegal immigrant. That's just not fair."

Wilkinson's position contrasts sharply with the position taken by Rubio in 2003
when he was a member of the Florida Legislature. Rubio backed an attempt that
year to give in-state tuition rates to some undocumented students. The bill
failed, just as subsequent attempts have.

Rubio's spokesman, Alex Burgos, clarified Rubio's current position Tuesday:
"Sen. Rubio does not support blanket in-state tuition benefits for students who
are in this country illegally," Burgos said in an email. "He believes that a
consensus exists to help a limited number of young people who were brought here
by their parents as young children and have worked hard, exhibited good moral
character, maintain good grades and want to contribute to our nation's future in
a meaningful way by becoming part of American society and attending college or
joining our armed forces. A limited approach like the one proposed in Florida is
consistent with these principles."

Burgos said the bill Rubio supported in 2003 was also limited in scope. He said
Rubio opposes the federal Dream Act, which would give hundreds of thousands of
undocumented young people a path to citizenship either through college study or
military service.

Tea party's clout in Fla. hurts chances

Guerra hopes that Perry's position plus the new policies adopted by the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency might change people's thinking on the
issue. In August, ICE announced it no longer would seek to detain and deport
undocumented people who have been in the U.S. for long periods and who have not
had serious run-ins with the law. Guerra, who had been facing deportation for
being in the U.S. without permission, saw his case dropped.

"Maybe the people in the legislature will realize that many of us have been here
for a long time and it looks like we will be here many more years," he said.
"Maybe it will be better to give us a chance at an education."

Bullard's office said the bill will be introduced again in the next legislative
session. But if Wilkinson's email traffic is any indication, the bill won't do
any better in the coming year. The tea party wields a lot of influence in
Tallahassee and Florida groups have made it a hot-button issue.

"There's been a lot of fallout over that issue all over Florida," Wilkinson said
of his tea party colleagues. "People are not happy with Gov. Perry."

Post researcher Niels Heimeriks and The Miami Herald contributed to this story.

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 29, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Push feds on visa abuse

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 455 words


After a Post investigation exposed how Palm Beach County resorts and country
clubs manipulate a federal visa program to hire foreign workers instead of
locals, one congressman wanted to fix the problem, while another said it's "not
the federal government's role."

The latter response, from U.S. Rep. Allen West, R-Plantation, is jaw-dropping.
"It is not the federal government's role to mandate the hiring practices of
private businesses, as long as they are not employing illegal aliens and
breaking the law," Rep. West wrote in a letter to the Hispanic Human Resources
Council of Palm Beach County.

This small-government boilerplate plays great on proposals to expand federal
powers. But in this case, the question was how to fix a federal visa program
administered by the federal government via guidelines set out by federal
lawmakers. The Constitution gives Congress power to "establish a uniform Rule of
Naturalization," which the courts long have interpreted to include immigration
authority.

On the other hand, U.S. Rep. Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton, already has started a
dialogue. After he wrote Labor Secretary Hilda Solis this month, department
officials responded by pointing out that they have created a new rule that
changes how temporary jobs must be advertised before employers can import
foreign workers to fill them.

This small change hardly resolves the problem on its own, but it is a first
step. As The Post's John Lantigua first reported, some of Palm Beach County's
most upscale resorts and country clubs are importing hundreds of foreign workers
to work as waiters, cooks and cleaners after claiming that they cannot find
willing and able local workers. But they're not looking very hard, since they do
not work with the county's Workforce Alliance, and their only recruiting is
minimal advertising in local newspapers and on a state jobs website -- just
enough to get federal clearance to bring temporary workers into the United
States.

A much larger problem with this flawed system is that the employers -- including
The Breakers, the Mar-a-Lago Club and Jupiter's Ritz-Carlton Golf Club and Spa
-- advertise their openings months before the jobs are available. This happens
at least partly because these employers know that, if they do not fill the jobs,
they will have to wait several weeks for clearance from federal officials before
importing foreign workers. Rep. Deutch understands this and has asked Ms. Solis
"what steps can be taken to have businesses advertise job openings closer to the
start of the job."

Rep. Deutch is acting to rectify a problem that needs to be fixed, rather than
shrug off responsibility and offer limited-government rhetoric.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWSA POST INVESTIGATIONOPINION: THE DEBATE STARTS HERE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boater charged with smuggling ;
 He let 18 Haitians out of his vessel off of Palm Beach, the feds allege.

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA SELTZER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 67-year-old man smuggled 18 Haitians into Palm Beach County last week in
exchange for thousands of dollars, federal agents said.

Thomas Alan Joerger has been charged with immigrant smuggling for profit,
according to court documents filed Monday.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection received a call Friday afternoon from Palm
Beach police saying 15 Haitian adults and three children had been let out of a
boat off Palm Beach, near North Ocean Boulevard and Eden Road.

At about the same time, a resident called the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office
with the registration number and description of the boat the immigrants
allegedly got out of.

Joerger and his 33-foot white Wellcraft were found in the Lake Worth Inlet. He
had $3,661 in U.S. currency on him and 725 Bahamian dollars, a federal criminal
complaint said. The boat is registered to Joerger at an address in Milton.

After being taken into custody, Joerger told investigators that he rescued the
immigrants from a sinking ship about 60 miles from the U.S. coast.

He admitted to bringing the Haitians to the U.S., and said that had he known the
area was so nice he would have "dropped the Haitians at a different location,"
the complaint said.

He told investigators he didn't know his passengers were from Haiti.

Two of the Haitians told investigators that Joerger knew they were not legal
immigrants.

They also said he charged between $2,000 and $3,000 for each adult and $1,000
per child to be brought to the U.S. and that arrangements were made for a boat
captain to pick them up in Abaco, Bahamas, the complaint said.

Border Patrol took the Haitians into custody.

~alexandra_seltzer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

letters to the editor

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 1204 words


Fix sends illegals home, puts others to work

Regarding state Rep. William Snyder's bill, I believe that all illegal
immigrants should be returned to the country from which they came. However,
being realistic, we cannot deport 10 million to 13 million people without
disruptions to our economy.

Therefore, we first should clear all jails and prisons of illegals -- other than
lifers, or long-term prisoners -- who would be documented and deported. Second,
we should establish a six-month sign-up period for illegals to register, and be
documented and issued a guest-worker pass. If they do not have a job, they would
get six months to find one or be returned to their home country, where they
could apply legally for return.

All illegals granted guest-worker status would have to report to local
authorities every six months to verify employment status. All workers would be
issued temporary Social Security cards, pay the appropriate taxes and after 10
years the card would be converted to regular status if they apply through normal
channels for permanent status, or citizenship.

No cardholders would be allowed to bring any relatives to the United States
except direct family members. Any children born of illegals would not be
considered U.S. citizens.

Last, all employers would use E-Verify. All who do not comply will be fined on a
daily basis for every illegal found in their employ. All workers would be paid
in accordance with local, state or federal wage guidelines and receive all
employee benefits.

Is this the complete answer? No, but it would go a long way toward solving our
illegal immigration problems and save billions of wasted dollars spent on
short-term fixes and the hidden costs of a massive illegal population.

RONALD C. PILENZO

Hobe Sound

Without viable program, next step is deportation

I think it is The Palm Beach Post that has it wrong in the paper's Jan. 30
editorial on state Rep. William Snyder's immigration bill.

Granted, we need an illegal alien guest-worker program. However, since one is
not in place, we need the current program of deporting anyone, for any reason,
to be immediately seized and sent back to his or her home country. What you are
proposing is putting the cart before the horse.

Further, your contention that Guatemalan Mayans and others would be victimized
by this law makes no sense. Illegal aliens have no rights whatsoever and should
not have any. You should be attacking the system for not providing a
guest-worker program and not the result, which is deporting them.

BRETT SORGE

West Palm Beach

Obama had his chance; he's neither Reagan nor Lincoln

The Palm Beach Post's latest attempt, in its editorial before the State of the
Union address, to give President Obama substance failed horribly.

Equating President Obama to President Reagan is laughable. I'm sure anyone under
30 might find your spiel believable, but those of us who are older know the
truth. Mr. Obama had two years with a Congress with near-unstoppable numbers.
His agenda cost them the majority. Republicans lost seats in 1982, but they
didn't lose 60-plus seats in the House, and they kept their Senate majority,
even gaining two seats.

Mr. Reagan's poll numbers did go up because of his agenda. Mr. Obama's recent
uptick as of late is because he used the lame duck session to get measures such
as tax cuts that go against his agenda. I'll give him "don't ask, don't tell,"
but that only overturned President Clinton's mistake.

So, please. President Obama is nothing like President Reagan. Just as he is
nothing like President Lincoln, even though that was crammed down our throats
for the first six months of his presidency. President Obama is only himself, so
let's not distort history to make him someone he is not.

JOHN E. SPARKS

Boynton Beach

Kravis ignores ruling, still insists on union-busting

On three separate occasions the union stagehands were victorious in court over
the Kravis Center for unfair labor practices ("Kravis ad reignites union
dispute.") The Kravis has even acknowledged that Local 500 stagehands are the
best option to do the stage work. Why does the Kravis refuse to abide by the
court ruling, insisting that it be able to reinvent the way stage work is done?

The union has perfected the art and safe practice of stage work for more than
100 years. Why not leave this work to these professionalmen and women who
provide the best practices in the profession? The union also has agreed to take
them inand train the existing (10) Kravis house employees in proper and safe
methods. TheKravis continues to refuse to sign a contract, which amounts to
ignoring court rulings and union-busting.

JAMES THOMSON

Lake Worth

Editor's note: James Thomson is president of Local 500 of the International
Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians and Allied
Crafts.

Get nominees into courts

The Jan. 23 editorial, "End anonymous obstruction," was correct. The Senate at
least was right to begin abolishing secret holds, which partially precluded the
2010 confirmation of 19 judicial nominees whom President Obama proposed. The
chamber should then promptly confirm the 42 nominees whom President Obama
renominated on Jan. 5, while he must swiftly propose nominees for the remaining
58 vacancies, and the Senate must expeditiously process them. The 100 current
vacancies prevent the courts from delivering justice.

CARL TOBIAS

Richmond, Va.

Editor's note: Carl Tobias is a professor of law at the University of Richmond.

Aren't bartenders a little to blame for drinkers who drive?

I note that John Goodman had a lot of drinks at the Players Club bar and
allegedly caused a death after having driven drunk. I saw recently in The Post
that a 29-year-old man crashed in the early hours and got killed after having
many drinks at the same bar. ("West Palm Beach man, 29, dies in violent BMW
crash in Wellington.")

Isn't it about time for the bartenders to ascertain that someone is OK to drive
and, if not, take his keys away and order a cab? I would think at this point
this bar and other bars also could be sued for contributory negligence, and
causing death, and DUI-related charges. What is wrong here? Bars want the money
but don't care about patrons and those that they are about to meet on a highway?
Time to act and enforce the laws.

ED BOWERS

Palm Beach Gardens

Martin sheriff an exemplary law enforcement official

I strongly disagree with the letter critical of Martin County Sheriff Robert
Crowder ("Scott can't trust naysayer Crowder in time of crisis," Jan. 24).

I have followed Sheriff Crowder's career for several years. He has an excellent
record as a crime fighter. In particular, this fine criminal justice
professional ran a "boot camp" for juvenile offenders that was widely
acknowledged as the best in the state, until the Legislature killed his funding.
The people of Martin County have elected Sheriff Crowder and reelected him more
than once. They obviously recognize his talent and ability.

To suggest, as the letter-writer does, that Gov. Scott "could not count on
Sheriff Crowder" in an emergency is simply ludicrous. Sheriff Crowder is among
the best practitioners of his profession. He is very good at what he does and,
by the way, he's a very nice guy.

DAN LIFTMAN

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds won't ID firms making illegal hires ;
 Critics demand to see lists detailing Social Security number mismatches.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1623 words


Jack Oliver is angry with all the illegal workers in Florida, but even more so
with the U.S. business owners who hire them and the politicians who he believes
allow the businesses to get away with it.

"You have a state legislature that is unwilling to deal with the problem,"
Oliver says. "They are protecting the people who hire these illegal aliens. I
think that is wrong."

Oliver, 61, of Stuart, is legislative director for Floridians for Immigration
Enforcement, a group that for eight years has fought illegal immigration, in
part by trying to keep employers from hiring undocumented workers.

But as the rancorous immigration issue drags on through another election cycle,
what has come home to conservative activists like Oliver is this:

While it seems much easier to diminish illegal immigration by identifying
employers who hire illegal workers -- instead of trying to chase down more than
10 million undocumented individuals -- neither the employers nor enough
government officials want that to happen.

First, despite a big push for a strong anti-illegal-immigration bill in 2011,
the Florida Legislature has not passed a law requiring employers to use E-Verify
-- a federal, computer-based system for validating Social Security numbers that
is considered a major tool for identifying illegal workers.

Activists trying to identify those employers also have attempted to track them
through the Social Security Administration, again to no avail. The national
conservative group Judicial Watch has tried for six years to make the SSA turn
over the names of companies on its "no-match lists."

Those lists would tell the public which companies employ workers whose names
don't match the Social Security numbers they are working under -- and how many
such mismatches each firm has.

Government research suggests that the majority of those mismatches occur in the
cases of illegal workers who are using counterfeit Social Security cards.

In December 2008, a Social Security inspector general report revealed that
thousands of U.S. employers had more than 10 employees per year whose Social
Security numbers didn't match their names. In 2005, 1,650 firms each had more
than 500 such "no-match" employees, totaling 2.6 million workers -- and one
Midwest firm alone had 37,375 no-match employees that year.

That report includes the most recent available statistics on the no-match
notices.

The SSA refuses to identify the employers, citing protected tax information
under the Internal Revenue Code.

"The courts have bought into the argument that this is a privacy issue, which it
isn't," said Chris Farrell, Judicial Watch's director of research.

On Jan. 20, a federal appeals court agreed to hear Judicial Watch's case again,
meaning the court fight isn't over.

The Palm Beach Post recently requested the same lists, but an SSA regional
spokesman in Atlanta said the documents were not public records.

"We would like to see the top 50 or 100 companies with the most no-match lists,"
Farrell said. "It could be extremely embarrassing for some very large
corporations. Certain companies are getting hundreds and thousands of no-match
letters every year. Some of these big companies have people selling phony green
cards and Social Security cards right in their own parking lots."

In 2011, the push against the Florida legislation to require all employers to
use E-Verify was led by the state's two largest industries: agriculture and
tourism.

The Florida Chamber of Commerce also opposed the measure. It supported its
position with the startling claim "that 54 percent of individuals verified as
legally eligible to work by E-Verify were in fact unauthorized aliens."

That figure, which opponents of E-Verify have repeated, was incorrect.

The federal study cited by the chamber stated 6.2 percent of people whose
documents were reviewed by E-Verify turned out to be illegal workers. Of those,
54 percent were using false documents belonging to a real person and avoided
immediate detection by E-Verify. In other words, the error rate was 3.3 percent,
not 54 percent.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which runs E-Verify, has updated its
information and says its error rate is down to 2.6 percent.

Chamber spokeswoman Edie Ousley recently admitted the figures used were wrong,
but said her organization still opposes adoption of E-Verify.

"It's still cumbersome and error-prone," she said.

The business opposition to E-Verify didn't waver in this year's legislature:
E-Verify bills presented in the Senate and House never made it to the floor of
either chamber.

Meanwhile in Washington, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is pushing a national
E-Verify bill, the Legal Workforce Act, but also has been blocked, primarily by
agricultural interests and lawmakers, both Republican and Democratic,
representing those interests.

Florida Grower, a publication aimed at the state agriculture industry, made its
position on national E-Verify clear in a recent edition.

"E-Verify could create massive disruptions in labor supply," the article said.
"If approximately 75 percent of your work force disappears, what are you to do?"

The meeting of minds between business and government on the immigration issue
goes beyond defeating new legislation. In Florida, farmers often use state labor
recruiters to find workers and also to help those workers fill out the necessary
federal employment eligibility verification forms.

In 2010, Gov. Rick Scott signed a law requiring all agencies under the state's
direction to use E-Verify to screen potential employees. But in a recent legal
case in Homestead, job recruiter Maria Reyna Collado, working as a contract
employee with state Department of Economic Opportunity, which helps connect
workers to job openings, was asked whether she confirmed that documents she was
presented by workers were legitimate.

"No," Collado said. "We're not immigration."

Greg Schell, a Florida Legal Services attorney, said many growers use the state
to help fill out the paperwork for a reason.

"It creates a buffer zone for them," he said. "They can say later they didn't
know the workers were illegal because the state filled out the paperwork. It's
basically an end run around Scott's promise to use E-Verify."

The business community is not the only political player that has made
questionable claims about E-Verify. Immigration advocates have claimed that
E-Verify often misidentified legal workers as illegal and has caused many to be
dismissed from jobs.

But a study by the National Immigration Law Center in Washington, published in
February 2011, listed only 18 such cases nationwide, including two in Florida.
In South Florida, immigration advocates asked by The Post for other such cases
said they knew of none.

Emily Tulli, an attorney with the law center, said that while the number of
cases reported is small, her organization believes other such cases occur but
aren't reported, especially by legal immigrants whose first language isn't
English.

"And you have to remember that only about 3 percent of the businesses in Florida
are currently enrolled in E-Verify, maybe 4 percent, so if you make it
mandatory, the number of such cases will greatly expand," Tulli said. "And for
the people it happens to, the consequences are very bad, especially people who
are low-income to begin with."

Tulli also believes that use of E-Verify will not diminish illegal labor. Many
employers meet the letter of the law by asking each worker for a Social Security
card. But the employer is not required to confirm that the card is legitimate.
Tulli said if E-Verify is adopted, more employers will simply begin to pay cash
and collect no taxes or Social Security payments from employees.

"More workers will be off the books and more taxes currently being collected
will disappear from the books as well," she said.

But activists such as Oliver argue that the cost of jobs to U.S. citizens and
the cost to the tax base are much greater without E-Verify.

Oliver, a construction worker, said illegal labor has driven down wages in his
industry.

"Illegal aliens have become the economy of choice in Florida," Oliver said.
"Employers want to pay as little as possible and put the maximum amount of money
they can in their pockets. The most vulnerable are poor U.S. citizens. On one
hand we say the poor should get off welfare, but the rug is being pulled out
from under them by illegal labor. And we are seeing the shrinking of the middle
class."

Oliver said he has been a Republican for more than 35 years and most members of
his organization are also Republicans, but he blames the GOP majorities in both
legislative houses in Tallahassee for the failure to act on E-Verify.

"The Republicans own this issue," he said. "They don't need one Democratic vote
to pass E-Verify. But they are getting money from lobbyists from those
businesses. The businesses are the ones pulling the strings in Tallahassee. ...
It's a travesty."

Sen. Thad Altman, R-Melbourne, sponsored an E-Verify measure this year that did
not receive a single committee hearing. He said he plans to try again next
session.

"We must do something to address the problem of illegal aliens who are working
here," he said. "It's not an anti-immigration thing. It's more or less a
rule-of-law issue."

Meanwhile, many Floridians and other citizens concerned with the immigration
issue continue to blame the issue on the many Mexicans and Central Americans who
come to the state to work.

"If they weren't getting hired, they wouldn't come," Oliver said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

No-match hires

* 1,650 U.S. companies each had more than 500 employees whose Social Security
numbers didn't match their names in 2005.

* One employer had 37,375 such workers.

Source: 2008 report by Social Security Administration inspector general

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bus-pass rule hits illegal workers ;
 Sales of discount passes fall after immigrant ban.

BYLINE: By Ana M. Valdes Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 852 words


Palm Tran officials say they're selling fewer bus passes at a discount because,
among other changes, they're not letting illegal immigrants buy them anymore.

With record ridership, the agency isn't hurting for ticket sales overall,
despite the decrease in sales of discounted tickets.

But some immigrant advocates say the rules leave some of the poorest residents
of the county scrambling for ways to get to jobs or supermarkets.

"They are relying more and more on taxis, which cost a lot more, and they are
deferring going to doctors' appointments and social service appointments,"
Sergio Palacio, executive director of the Farmworker Coordinating Council of
Palm Beach, told The Palm Beach Post last week.

Palacio, whose group sells discounted passes, and public transportation advocate
Tomas Boiton urged Palm Beach County commissioners Tuesday to ask Palm Tran
officials to eliminate the new regulation and allow illegal immigrants to
purchase the low-cost bus passes.

Palm Tran's Transportation Disadvantaged Bus Program sells one-day and monthly
passes at steep discounts to low-income riders.

Losing eligibility means undocumented immigrants must spend $4 a day instead of
$1 to ride the bus, Boiton told the commission.

Regularly priced monthly bus passes sell for $60. Palm Tran sells monthly
discounted tickets for $15 if the person's household income is between 101
percent and 150 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $16,700 annually
per household resident; and for $10 if income is 100 percent or less of the
poverty level, or about $11,100 annually.

The new requirements were put in place after county officials audited the
discount program and found "a number of loose ends we think needed to be
tightened up," Palm Tran Executive Director Chuck Cohen said. "I don't think we
ever intended to provide discounts to undocumented workers. Should we or should
we not? I think that's a policy issue."

The audit, which Cohen requested, found that community agencies selling
discounted passes often were not obtaining photo identifications or verifying
income levels of ticket purchasers. Bus pass holders were reselling discounted
tickets at inflated prices, the audit showed.

The county auditor made several recommendations, including tightening oversight
of the community agencies and creating a database to document the sale of
discounted passes to avoid selling more than one pass per person.

The auditor also recommended that Palm Tran require holders of discounted bus
passes to prove they are in the United States legally. Cohen said that after
much discussion with his staff, and seeing that other county service programs
require beneficiaries to reside legally in the U.S., "we decided it made sense
for us to do it, as well."

After the auditor's recommendations were implemented July 1, the sale of the
disadvantaged monthly passed dropped 25 percent in one month.

Sales of the passes have been lower every month this year compared with last
year.

April's sales of 6,818 passes were 7 percent fewer than the 7,298 tickets sold
in April 2011. Sales in March were down 15 percent from a year earlier,
according to Palm Tran records.

Despite the drop in sales of the discounted tickets, Palm Tran had record
ridership in fiscal 2011 -- more than 11 million riders.

The change, however, has not gone over well at several community agencies that
sell discounted passes. They've expressed concern that the legal-status
requirement affects undocumented families that rely on public transportation to
go to work or the grocery store.

Palacio said he has seen how the new Palm Tran policy has affected his clients,
many of them undocumented. In April, he sold bus passes to nine families,
compared with 29 families the same month last year.

"It now prevents (undocumented clients) from buying bus passes and using public
transportation at a price they can afford," Palacio said. "It's really affecting
their quality of life."

West Palm Beach immigration attorney Aileen Josephs agreed that the new
requirement could affect undocumented workers, but she also said taxpayers may
not want their money to fund transportation for people who are in the U.S.
illegally.

Palm Tran receives about $30 million a year in county property tax and gas tax
revenue.

"I feel for the immigrants, but I don't think they have a constitutional right
for subsidized public transportation," Josephs said. "We have to understand many
taxpayers don't want to feel they are giving their money to subsidize the
transportation for undocumented (people)."

Cohen said some of those riders who used to benefit from the discounted bus
passes may apply for discounts available for disabled passengers, but most will
probably end up paying regular fares.

Palm Tran could make an additional $2 million a year if there were no discounts
offered to passengers, Cohen said.

State money that finances the discounted pass program has been cut by at least
50 percent, he said.

"In a lot of places, we are just providing services and the county is picking up
the cost," Cohen said.

Staff writer Jennifer Sorentrue contributed to this story.ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Post Coverage  Palm Tran DISCOUNTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No detention center for Glades ;
 Area leaders hoped it would make up for losing prison jobs.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SORENTRUE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 422 words


The federal government has tentatively agreed to build a new 1,800-bed
immigration detention center in western Broward County, dashing Palm Beach
County leaders' hopes that the facility might rise in the Glades.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials announced Friday that they
are working with the town of Southwest Ranches in western Broward County on
plans for the facility.

The news marked yet another blow for the Glades region, which is dealing with
crippling unemployment levels.

Glades-area leaders had suggested that the detention center could replace the
Glades Correctional Institution in Belle Glade. The state is considering closing
the prison, which employs almost 300 people in the region.

Budget proposals presented this year ended funding for the 918-bed prison as of
July 1.

But Florida Corrections Secretary Edwin Buss told local leaders this week that
the state will fund the prison until at least Sept. 1.

"It is, of course, sad that the Glades was not considered for the ICE site,"
said state Rep. Mack Bernard, D-West Palm Beach, whose district includes the
Glades.

"We are still hopeful that the secretary will explore all of the options that he
has."

Pahokee Mayor J.P. Sasser took aim at Buss and Republican Gov. Rick Scott,
saying they have not been "open" and "honest" about the prison's future.

"Right now, Tallahassee has no credibility," Sasser said. "Man up, come down
here, or at least send us a letter stating what your intentions are. Not the
first one of them has the backbone to do that."

Sasser said the prison's employees "can't afford to wait" until September to
find out if they are going to lose their jobs.

The state legislature this year approved a cost-cutting plan that would
privatize most prisons in an 18-county area.

Two prisons, Glades and Hendry Correctional Institution in Immokalee, were left
off that list and scheduled for closure because they are old and expensive to
run.

The Hendry facility is still scheduled to close July 1. It employs 182 people.

In an email statement, ICE spokesman Ivan Ortiz-Delgado said the agency is
working with officials in Southwest Ranches on an agreement for the operation
and management of the detention center.

"At this time, ICE and Southwest Ranches continue to work through the details of
this tentative selection," Ortiz-Delgado said.

"If and when a formal selection occurs, the appropriate notifications will be
made." Three sites, including one in Palm Beach County, were considered for the
new facility, he said.

~jennifer_sorentrue@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  BELLE GLADE Immigration facility More local news Get the latest coverage
of western Palm Beach County. PBPost.com/go/west

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Slammed, but still prospering ;
 Prison operator GEO Group continues to grow despite years of criticism from
inmates, feds, about sloppy, gruesome practices

BYLINE: By Jeff Ostrowski Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1432 words


BOCA RATON -- For Nicaraguan immigrant Serafin Solorzano, being jailed for
overstaying his visa was bad enough. Even worse: Solorzano said he was denied
access to his asthma inhaler for part of a two-week stay at an immigration
detention center in Deerfield Beach.

Without access to his medicine, he felt as though he was suffocating. Solorzano,
now 54, recovered from the asthma attack. But the experience two years ago led
him to join the growing list of critics of GEO Group, the Boca Raton-based
prison operator that owns the Broward Transition Center where Solorzano was
held.

"This is something that has violated my human rights," Solorzano told reporters
in May as he and other critics protested outside the GEO Group's annual meeting
at The Breakers in Palm Beach.

Solorzano's gripes have been echoed by inmates, by civil libertarians and by
state and federal regulators who have scrutinized GEO Group's operations. They
argue that GEO Group pads its profits by cutting worker wages, skimping on
inmate health care and ignoring safety and sanitation.

Despite the complaints, which GEO Group (NYSE: GEO) dismisses as unfounded, the
company continues to grow, thanks to rising prison populations and the federal
government's move to privatize detention of immigrants. GEO Group is on track to
book $1.7 billion in revenues in 2012, its biggest year on record and a
hundredfold increase from 1994, the prison operator's first year as a publicly
traded company.

GEO Group launched as Wackenhut Corrections and was based in Coral Gables. After
a move to Palm Beach Gardens in the 1990s, GEO Group landed in Boca Raton.

Governments pay GEO Group to run nearly 80,000 beds in prisons and hospitals
worldwide. Among the institutions operated by GEO Group are South Bay
Correctional Facility, a 1,862-bed state prison in western Palm Beach County;
the 700-bed Broward Transition Center, a U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement facility; and the Treasure Coast Forensic Treatment Center, a
223-bed state hospital in Stuart.

GEO Group's revenue -- which has risen every year for nearly 20 years -- and
steady profits make it a financial success story. It's the second-largest
operator of private prisons, trailing only Corrections Corp. of America (NYSE:
CXW) of Nashville.

But investors clearly prefer CCA. While GEO Group's revenue is similar to CCA's,
CCA is twice as profitable, and CCA's market capitalization is twice GEO
Group's. A $10,000 investment five years ago in GEO Group would have dwindled to
$8,667, while the same amount invested in CCA would have grown to $13,237.

Meanwhile, GEO Group has been dogged for years by reports of sloppy -- and
sometimes gruesome -- practices.

One recent black eye: In June, the federal Occupational Safety and Health
Administration proposed fines totaling $104,100 for violations at a GEO Group
prison in Meridian, Miss.

Federal inspectors visited the prison in December and found too few guards on
duty and broken cell locks. OSHA said GEO Group guards were stabbed, bitten,
punched and kicked by inmates, and that the company did little to protect them.

In one of the prison's housing units, only three guards were on duty. GEO
Group's staffing plan called for eight officers to be on guard. Understaffing
meant guards were more likely to be attacked by prisoners, OSHA said.

What's more, inmates tampered with cell doors so that they could be opened by
prisoners from the inside but not by guards from the outside.

"This employer knowingly put workers at risk of injury or death by failing to
implement well-recognized measures that would protect employees from physical
assaults by inmates," Clyde Payne, OSHA's director in Jackson, Miss., said in a
statement.

GEO Group has contested OSHA's findings.

GEO Group has been on the receiving end of a laundry list of regulatory actions
and lawsuits. Among them:

In 2011, an Oklahoma jury ordered GEO to pay $6.5 million to the family of
Ronald Sites, an inmate who was strangled to death by his cellmate in 2005.

In 2011, Florida Department of Corrections investigators visited GEO Group's
prison in South Bay for a drug sweep and couldn't get in. No one was stationed
at the front gate, and no one responded when state employees pushed the alert
button and shined flashlights at the prison surveillance cameras.

Also last year, the Florida Department of Children and Families said GEO Group's
neglect contributed to the death of a South Florida State Hospital patient. The
man was being escorted by GEO Group employees to an appointment at Jackson
Memorial Hospital when he hurled himself from the eighth story of a parking
garage, the Miami Herald reported. A GEO Group employee should have stayed with
the man at the first-story hospital entrance while the driver retrieved the van,
DCF said.

In 2010, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued GEO Group for
allowing sexual harassment of female employees at two prisons in Florence, Ariz.
In one incident, a male GEO Group manager "grabbed and pinched the breasts and
crotch of a female correctional officer," the EEOC said. In another instance, a
"female employee was forced onto a desk, where a male GEO employee shoved apart
her legs and kissed her," the agency claimed.

In 2009, a Texas appeals court upheld a $42.5 million verdict after a prisoner
at a GEO Group facility was beaten to death four days before his release.

In 2007, Texas canceled an $8 million contract with GEO and closed the Coke
County Juvenile Justice Center. Inspectors found feces on floors, padlocked
emergency exits and overuse of pepper spray on young inmates.

"Such complaints, which are based on inaccurate or incomplete information,
represent a very unfair portrayal of GEO's long-standing record of quality
operations," said GEO Group spokesman Pablo Paez.

"While all correctional and residential treatment facilities in the United
States, public or private, face operational challenges that are inherent in the
management of offender and psychiatric populations, GEO has always strived to
achieve the highest national standards and best practices, including those set
by the American Correctional Association, the National Commission on
Correctional Healthcare and the Joint Commission."

The company's defenders chalk up the litany of gripes to the nature of its
business. GEO Group operates in what might be the messiest niche in American
capitalism, an industry where shankings, riots and suicide attempts are routine.

"We're not talking about members of Congress or Boy Scouts here," Robert
Wasserman, an analyst at Dawson James in Boca Raton, said of the complaints. "I
think their goal is to operate these facilities as cleanly as they can."

Critics take a less charitable view of the company. Bob Libal, executive
director of Grassroots Leadership in Austin, Texas, said he's astounded that
state and federal officials still do business with GEO Group.

"In Texas, GEO Group had an absolute string of horror stories that resulted in
having multiple contracts canceled," Libal said. "They're a very troubled
corporation that exemplifies many of the problems with the for-profit prison
industry. It's mind-boggling that companies like GEO continue to win contracts."

Proponents of private prisons say for-profit institutions operate more
efficiently than public prisons. "Private prisons are providing quality services
-- while remaining cost-efficient and providing significant cost savings," wrote
Geoffrey Segal, a former adviser to then-Gov. Jeb Bush's Center for Efficient
Government, in a 2005 report.

But some who have studied private prison finances say the savings are elusive.
Florida law says that private prison contracts must yield savings of 7 percent
compared to what the state would have paid to operate the facility. GEO Group's
Paez said typical savings are 10 percent to 15 percent, and a Florida
legislative analysis pointed to savings of 7 percent to 28 percent.

But in a 2008 report, the Florida Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government
Accountability looked at the state's private prisons and concluded that
operators save money by taking on fewer "special needs" prisoners with medical
problems and mental health issues that make them expensive to house.

"As special needs inmates are more expensive to serve than other inmates, the
difference in the populations of public and private prisons results in the state
shouldering a greater proportion of the cost of housing these inmates," the
report said. "As a result, the requirement that the private prisons operate a 7
percent lower cost than state facilities is undermined."

jostrowski@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  Prisons

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Man, 25,indicted in refugee smuggling ;
 He faces the death penalty after one of the 11 immigrants died.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 25-year-old boat captain faces the death penalty in connection with an
ill-fated June 14 immigrant smuggling operation that left a pregnant woman dead
and another woman critically injured.

Tarran Maynard was indicted this week after telling investigators he was paid
$10,000 to ferry 11 Bahamian, Jamaican and Haitian nationals from Freeport,
Bahamas, to South Florida. He told federal agents the money was lost when the
24-foot boat capsized about 12 miles off Riviera Beach.

Maynard said a man he identified as "Biggs" threatened to harm him and his
family if he didn't take the job, court records show. He later identified Biggs
as Andrew Smith, who was one of the passengers.

Smith, 37, also was indicted this week. He and four other Jamaicans are charged
with trying to re-enter the country illegally after being deported for having
felony convictions. All face a maximum 20 years in prison.

Maynard is charged with 28 separate crimes because of the number of people
aboard the boat. The most serious charge -- encouraging and inducing aliens to
enter the U.S. resulting in death -- is punishable by life imprisonment or
death.

After the U.S. Coast Guard plucked 11 people out of the water, they discovered
the body of a woman, later identified as Jeanne Pierre, under the boat that
capsized after the engine failed. Another woman, Shoudna Charles, didn't have a
pulse when she was rescued, agents said. She was taken to an unidentified
hospital where, as of June 16, she was in critical condition.

The six who were indicted are in federal custody. In addition to Maynard and
Smith, they are Patrick Campbell, 33; Basil Barker, no age available; Anthony
Smith, 43; and Gary Mitchell, 40.

There was no information about the current whereabouts of the four others who
were rescued. Two of them were children. The other two were identified as
Nickardo Bailey and Edwige Silvain.

~jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportations misguided in Florida? ;
 Critics want a focus on criminals; most deportees are noncriminals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1113 words


Undocumented immigrants in Florida who have no criminal record are more likely
to be deported than such individuals in other parts of the country.

Half of the 392,000 people deported nationwide in fiscal 2010 were categorized
as criminal aliens, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But
in Florida, only 5,314 of the 15,345 people deported -- 34.6 percent -- were
labeled criminal aliens. The other 10,031 were noncriminal deportees.

Criminal aliens are those convicted of serious crimes -- such as homicide,
kidnapping, robbery, major drug offenses, larceny, arson, fraud and human
smuggling -- or who previously were deported and reentered the U.S. without
permission. A person with repeated misdemeanors also can face deportation.

ICE officials say the Obama administration has placed new emphasis on removing
undocumented immigrants who threaten public safety, rather than staging raids
that target all illegal immigrants. But the Florida numbers run contrary to that
emphasis, immigrant advocates say.

"The government claims it is targeting serious criminals, but we are seeing many
other people getting deported and more and more all the time," said Aileen
Josephs, a West Palm Beach immigration attorney. "This is just terrible what it
is doing to immigrant families."

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center recently interviewed 70 detainees at an
immigration detention center in Pompano Beach and found that two-thirds had no
criminal conviction. Most of the others had no offense more serious than driving
without a valid license, a misdemeanor. Some said they had simply been
passengers in the cars that were stopped.

In a December letter to ICE, the advocacy center noted that many deportees have
American-born children who are U.S. citizens. Many of those individuals also are
employed by local companies, the center said.

"Detaining those not convicted of any offense not only runs counter to the
administration's stated policies but also needlessly harms those detained and
their American families," the advocacy center said.

Not all Floridians sympathize with the center. According to polls, a majority of
Floridians say they want strict enforcement of federal immigration laws. Others
-- including many Hispanics, as well as businesspeople who depend on
undocumented labor or do business with foreign visitors -- say such hard-line
policies will hurt the state's image and its fragile economy.

Being in the country without the proper documents is not in itself a criminal
offense. It is a civil infraction, although such individuals are still
vulnerable to deportation. Some of those deported have committed no offense
other than lacking documents.

Others are stopped for minor traffic offenses and are found to have outstanding
warrants involving failure to appear in immigration courts, failure to respond
to previous traffic summons or some other minor offense.

They are then detained and sometimes processed by immigration courts and
deported.

"People who are not criminals are sort of easy pickings," said Susana Barciela,
spokeswoman for the advocacy center. "They aren't expecting trouble and don't
flee, or at least in most cases they don't."

Ivan Ortiz-Delgado, ICE spokesman for Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin
Islands, counters that the policy enforced in the state is no different from
elsewhere in the country.

"Our priority is to identify and remove (from the country) dangerous criminal
aliens," he said.

But Ortiz-Delgado said that if ICE agents encounter other undocumented people
while searching for criminals, those people also could be detained.

"We are not going to look the other way," he said. "We will process those people
who have violated the Immigration and Nationalization Act, even if they are not
convicted criminals."

Ortiz-Delgado said the reason so many undocumented people other than criminal
aliens are deported from Florida "is not a state secret."

"There is simply a larger population of illegals in the region," he said.

Florida businesses employ many undocumented immigrants, especially in the
agriculture, hospitality, landscaping and construction industries. So, ICE
agents on their way to detain criminal aliens are more likely to encounter
noncriminal illegal immigrants in Florida than in many other states.

Scarlett Fave, social services coordinator for the Caridad Center in Boynton
Beach, says at least once a week she sees a family in which one of the parents
has been detained and eventually ends up in deportation proceedings. In almost
all those cases, the problems start with a minor traffic stop.

But the advocacy center's Barciela says agents of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection have shown up in public venues in recent months and asked people for
their legal documents with no reason to believe they have committed crimes.

In addition, relatively new ICE programs have increased the number of deportees.
All 67 Florida counties participate in the Secure Communities program. Law
enforcement booking centers take the fingerprints of people arrested and run
them through a Department of Homeland Security database. Any person found to
have violated immigration law can be detained for ICE.

The advocacy center says many of the people detained through the program are not
criminals.

Also, three Florida counties and the state Department of Law Enforcement
participate in the 287(g) program, which trains state, county or local law
enforcement agents to enforce immigration law in cooperation with ICE.

The legislature also is considering bills that would give all state, county and
local law enforcement agents a greater role in detaining undocumented
immigrants. One bill, sponsored by Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, would allow
all law enforcement agents to question the immigration status of people targeted
during a criminal investigation.

If it passes, that measure almost certainly will add to the number of people
detained and deported.

But Snyder said last week his bill would not allow agencies to inquire about the
immigration status of people other than those being investigated for a specific
crime, and thus should not result in noncriminals being detained.

"The bill is designed to be a one-on-one situation," Snyder said. He said
sheriff's deputies and police would be able to inquire about immigration status
only when they have "reasonable suspicion" that a person has committed a crime.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Florida deportations of illegal immigrants

Fiscal Criminal Noncriminal Total Percent year .criminal

2008 2,939 10,683 13,622 21.6

2009 3,830 12,407 16,237 23.6

2010 5,314 10,031 15,345 34.6

Note: Figures include Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands

Source: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill foes shut out in Senate

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Efforts to curb illegal immigration strike fear and frustration in the hearts of
immigrants. But the Florida lawmaker in charge of the Senate's immigration
revisions got her own taste of frustration Monday.

After the Senate Judiciary Committee spent less than 15 minutes on a somewhat
softened immigration proposal and took almost no public testimony, dozens of
immigrants and their advocates accosted Chairwoman Anitere Flores, a
Cuban-American Republican from Miami.

Flores pleaded in Spanish with the crowd -- many of them young children who
traveled with their parents from South Florida, and others children of deported
parents -- to "read the bill," while assuring them her proposal is free of the
Arizona-style measures eliciting fear from both documented and undocumented
Florida residents.

"How do I feel? I feel ... I don't know. Conflicted. Emotional," Flores told
reporters as immigrant workers and students crowded around her after the
meeting.

"I am not in favor of an Arizona law. I will not vote for an Arizona law. That
is not what this bill does," said Flores, who has taken more than eight hours of
public testimony on the changes.

Shortly after the meeting ended, Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Donald Severance
escorted several attendees who were shouting "Let us speak" out of the committee
room.

The latest version of Flores' bill, approved by a 5-2 vote along party lines,
would require that employers check potential hires' immigration status with the
online E-verify system or a federal REAL ID-compliant driver license. And it
would require sheriffs to conduct a feasibility study to determine whether they
should enter agreements with federal authorities allowing them to operate as
federal immigration agents.

But what the bill doesn't contain is causing as much concern as what's in it.

The bill would not grant local law enforcement officials the ability to demand
documentation of immigration status, the component that created the most furor
in Arizona. The House version would allow law enforcement to request the
documentation for active criminal investigations.

Flores' attempts to placate the group fell short.

Afterward, more than 50 gathered outside the meeting room, planning their next
move and voicing complaints.

"Injustice," was Diego Sanchez' analysis of the committee's action Monday.
Sanchez, a St. Thomas University student with Students Working for Equal Rights,
did not get to speak. "Look around. People missed work, missed class. They voted
it out without public testimony."

Subhash Kateel, an organizer with the Florida Immigrant Coalition, said the
travelers were insulted that they weren't allowed to speak. He said that Florida
should follow the lead of Mississippi, Kentucky and Arizona, where lawmakers had
abandoned similar efforts.

Flores' bill is a "step in the right direction," Kateel said, "but the ultimate
right decision is to not let this bill go forward."

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  THE POST IN TALLAHASSEELEGISLATURE 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Critics are right: Do nothing

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 522 words


Prospects for a Florida immigration bill got murkier last week as the Senate
failed to find a compromise between an Arizona-style measure in the House and
its own milder version. The best option: Listen to critics from agriculture,
tourism and immigrants-rights groups who want the Legislature to leave
immigration policy to the federal government.

Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, doubts the motives of business lobbyists who have
pressed an effective attack on his bill (HB 7089) and the evolving Senate
alternative (SB 2040). "The main fear is that businesses will lose their
undocumented workers," Rep. Snyder testified before a House committee.

Illegal immigrants, Rep. Snyder went on, "are afraid of their employers, they
are afraid of the police. ...There's 825,000 people in Florida today, living in
the shadows, that do not have the rights that you and I have, so that we can eat
our salads and get our lawns mowed and get our yards raked, and that's really
what we're talking about on the business side of it." Rep. Snyder insisted that
his bill is a small step "to stop the human rights issues that are going on here
today."

Rep. Snyder is right that illegal immigrants are "victims of a broken system"
whose status businesses can exploit. But his bill would not stop the
exploitation or bring victims out of the shadows. It would make local police do
double duty as Border Patrol officers. Safeguards against racial profiling are
inadequate, and would drag Florida into the costly constitutional legal fight
that Arizona faces for intruding on federal power.

Rep. Snyder might be right that employers mainly object to the bill's
requirement that they use the federal E-Verify system because they don't want to
lose their pool of cheap labor. That doesn't nullify proven problems with
E-Verify's accuracy. And even if business is self-serving in its objections, an
inability to harvest crops would harm Florida's economy. So would a tourism
boycott that could result if Florida passes an Arizona-style immigration bill.

The Senate bill introduced by Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami, would have made law
enforcement check the immigration status of inmates. That would be less
problematic than Rep. Snyder's empowerment of law enforcement officers to check
the immigration status of people encountered during police work if there's a
"reasonable suspicion" they're in this country illegally. Her bill also offered
alternatives to E-Verify. So it was better, though still not good.

Still, it was too weak for Senate President Mike Haridopolos, R-Melbourne, who's
running for the U.S. Senate. He took the bill away from Sen. Flores and asked
budget chief J.D. Alexander to nudge it toward Rep. Snyder's bill and to include
items Gov. Scott wants, such as requiring the state to check the immigration
status of people seeking state assistance or job placement help.

The Senate was to take up the bill Thursday, then Saturday. Didn't happen. Now,
Monday is the target. Whatever snags are keeping the Senate from acting also are
keeping the Legislature from making a big mistake.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legislature wise to reject E-Verify for better plan

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 1158 words


In his commentary "Legislature inexplicably bows to business, rejects E-Verify,"
Palm Beach County Republican Chairman Sid Dinerstein asked "Is Florida now a
sanctuary for illegal aliens?" The answer is no.

By refusing to pass the E-Verify bill, the Florida Legislature, unlike those in
Arizona and Georgia and more like Utah's, said our immigration system must be
revamped to serve our nation's labor needs and foster legal migration. The H-2A
program Mr. Dinerstein mentioned is outdated and allows for a very small number
of needed, unskilled workers. According to the Cato Institute, "The pool of
native-born Americans who have traditionally filled those jobs continues to
shrink." His article rests on the fallacy that an "enforcement-only approach" is
the answer.

Florida's failure to pass the E-Verify bill saved Floridians legal fees
defending a bill that was in part unconstitutional. More important, the failure
to pass this state bill encourages Congress to act in a bipartisan fashion to
give our nation sensible immigration reform that will protect our borders,
create a federally mandated employment verification system, create an efficient
temporary worker program and bring 11 million people out of the shadows into a
path of legal status where they pay back taxes and learn English. It is not
amnesty but accountability.

Many Republican and conservative groups and individuals have voiced the need to
fix our immigration system. We should be proud that Florida did not follow
Arizona, Alabama or Georgia, and that Florida is a trailblazer to encourage
constructive immigration policies that steer the debate away from politics and
polls and toward economic growth and humane values.

GARY WALK

PASTOR MONICA DELGADO

AILEEN JOSEPHS

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Gary Walk, Monica Delgado and Aileen Josephs are co-chairs of
Florida Voices for Immigration Reform.Obama's spendthrift ways are what make him
look bad

Editorial cartoonist Mike Judge, who obviously supports raising the debt limit,
seemed to put all the blame on the Republicans and didn't see where President
Obama is equally at fault for being just as obstinate. If anyone is making
President Obama "look bad" it's Mr. Obama himself (cartoon, July 19).

This spend-crazy president, who started his spending spree with his ridiculous
"stimulus package" and continues to dig us deeper and deeper into debt, can't
seem to realize that we can't spend money we don't have. It's bad enough that
both China and Japan already own a piece of us, but our esteemed president wants
to sell us down the river to the point we become known as the United States of
the Orient.

The public has been wisely urged to pay off credit-card debt, yet President
Obama can't seem to take a dose of his own medicine. He seems to act like a kid
who was given the power to chew up every bit of enticement, regardless of the
stomachache he should have known would follow. This is the problem with youth;
they can't seem to see the big picture.

The public has had to cut back on its spending because it just doesn't have the
money. But our president wants to do just the opposite. Is this true leadership?
Or does it just fall under the old adage, "Do as I say, not as I do?"

ANGELA OUELLETTE

Delray Beach

Family in debt would look for extra income on top of cuts

Republicans argue daily that we must act like a typical American family and
reduce expenses to solve this terrible debt problem, as any family in debt would
do ("Debbie and Frank Peterson's debt ceiling.") I am the head of a typical
American family, and if in debt I would never follow that advice.

Sure, I would reduce unnecessary expenses, i.e., put off buying a new car and
putting the kids in public rather than a private school. However, I would work
equally hard at increasing income. Any typical head of a family in trouble would
work overtime or get a second job, because it only makes sense that increasing
money coming in is essential to solving any debt problem. That, unfortunately,
is not the Republican idea of reality.

Why is bringing in additional income to satisfy this debt crisis a sin when it
should be a priority equal to cutting expenses? I guess the debt isn't really
such a "crisis" after all; it's just pandering as usual. This is just another
attempt by the Republicans' rich supporters to pay less in taxes than ever in
recent history, and make it up by milking those in need. This is not just crazy;
it's crooked.

JAMES L. EISENBERG

West Palm Beach

Rooney wrong to pin hopes on balanced budget amendment

Rep. Tom Rooney's proposal ("Solution to our deficit problem: Balanced budget
amendment") might actually destabilize the economy. When the economy weakens,
tax receipts decline and unemployment benefits automatically rise, cushioning
the decline in the economy. Yes, the deficit will increase, but if the
government responds to the decline in tax receipts by raising taxes and/or
cutting spending while the economy sags, the economy could easily worsen. This
is the wrong fiscal policy.

Looking to the future: What if economic theories change? Will we amend the
Constitution again as these theories change? And who will enforce the amendment
if the president and Congress fail to balance the budget? Judges?

ROBERT J. PARISH ...Jupiter

Don't blame Democrats; it's Republicans who won't budge

I'm tired of people blaming both parties for the debt-ceiling crisis ("Debt
impasse creates a credibility crisis.") Republicans used the debt ceiling as
leverage to get budget cuts they could never get as a minority. When the
president compromised and agreed to requested cuts and more, the Republicans
said no, if the plan included tax increases on the wealthy.

Now that Democrats are offering yet another compromise of larger budget cuts
with no tax increases, Republicans are saying no because they want smaller cuts
that will run out in six months and cause another debt-ceiling crisis during
election-year politics. The president and Democrats have consistently
compromised; Republicans have not. And the sticking point is taxes.

The Bush tax cuts were supposed to expire. They coincided with a sharp rise in
the deficit and a loss of jobs to offshoring. We can't balance the budget by
cutting spending to 1951 levels; there must be a compromise on taxes. When
people blame both parties, they encourage Republicans' resistance to compromise.

RANDY JOHNSON

Boynton Beach

Country must trump party

I am 88, and always been extremely proud of my country. I have voted in every
federal election since 1944. Today, I am ashamed of the politicians who owe
their allegiance not to our country but to their political party. This childish
maneuvering about the debt limit for our country is embarrassing to all of our
citizens and to the world at large. After being elected, our representatives
should owe their allegiance to our country and not primarily to their party or
to those who provide their financial backing.

WILLIAM S. RACHLES

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New rules ease deportation fears for noncriminals ;
 The administration will target illegal immigrants who 'pose a security risk.'

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 906 words


One of the most visible immigration activists in South Florida, who has
campaigned to win the right to stay in the U.S., had for weeks been awaiting
nervously his final deportation hearing Sept. 1.

Manuel Guerra, 27, of Indiantown, was looking at the possibility that, before
the end of the year, he would be sent back to Mexico, where he hasn't lived
since he was 16.

Then Thursday, he received news that amounted to a reprieve not only for him but
many other undocumented people in South Florida and the rest of the country.

Two senior White House officials, speaking on a conference call with reporters
around the nation, said the Obama administration has decided to go through all
of the 300,000 pending deportation cases it has on its books and apprehend and
deport only those people who are considered priority offenders.

That list would include anyone considered a threat to national security, people
who have committed serious crimes, gang members, people who recently crossed the
borders illegally or those who are repeat immigration offenders.

The officials also said the new guidelines will dictate who ends up in trouble
with immigration agents and prosecutors in the first place. In other words, even
if people are in the country illegally and have been for a while, they should be
able to avoid being deported, as long as they don't fit into the priority
categories and continue not to. At least that will be true under the current
administration.

Guerra says he fits none of those categories and that many other undocumented
immigrants in the South facing deportation don't either. They could find
themselves, at least for the moment, off the hook.

"My lawyer called to tell me he had spoken with the prosecutor just a while
before," Guerra said. "He told me that the prosecutor had decided to drop the
case and I will be allowed to stay."

The attorney, Richard Huber of Boynton Beach, confirmed that. "This is something
that came from above and it's huge for a lot of my clients," Huber said.

Cecilia Munoz, the White House director of Intergovernmental Affairs, posted the
new policy on the White House blog Thursday.

"It makes no sense to spend our enforcement resources on these low-priority
cases, when they could be used with more impact on others, including individuals
who have been convicted of serious crimes," she wrote.

"So DHS (the Department of Homeland Security), along with the Department of
Justice, will be reviewing the current deportation caseload to clear out
low-priority cases on a case-by-case basis and make more room to deport people
who have been convicted of crimes or pose a security risk," Munoz continued.
"And they will take steps to keep low-priority cases out of the deportation
pipeline in the first place.

"In the end, this means more immigration enforcement pressure where it counts
the most, and less where it doesn't -- that's the smartest way to follow the
law, while we stay focused on working with the Congress to fix it," she said.

The statement drew immediate applause from advocates for immigrants.

"We have long urged ICE (the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency) to stop
targeting immigrants with no or minor criminal histories, with little success,"
said Romy Lerner, a supervising attorney for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center, which represents clients throughout South Florida. "If ICE is now truly
committed to doing the right thing, this is a significant and welcome change."

But the change in policy also drew speedy condemnation from opponents of the
legalization of undocumented immigrants.

"Today's policy announcement clearly demonstrates the Obama administration's
defiance of both the constitutional separation of powers and the will of the
American public in its relentless effort to gain amnesty for illegal aliens,"
stated Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform on
the organization's website.

"Having failed in the legislative process, the Obama administration has simply
decided to usurp Congress's constitutional authority and implement an amnesty
program for millions of illegal aliens," Stein said.

The announcement Thursday followed a memo issued June 17 by ICE Director John
Morton advising ICE personnel that resources were limited and that they should
employ "prosecutorial discretion" when deciding who to put in deportation
proceedings.

Morton's memo gave his personnel 19 other factors to consider when deciding who
to target, including length of time in the country, age at time of arrival, how
avidly the person has pursued an education, and ties to his or her current
community.

"Out of those 19 things, I qualify under about 12 of them," Guerra said
Thursday. "I'm feeling pretty good about things right now."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

ICE memo: Who to target

In his June 17 memo to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement personnel, Director
John Morton advised them which undocumented immigrants and other non-citizens in
the U.S. should be targeted for apprehension above all others:

* Individuals who pose a clear risk to national security.

* Serious felons, repeat offenders, or individuals with a lengthy criminal
record of any kind.

* Known gang members or other individuals who pose a clear danger to public
safety.

* Individuals with an egregious record of immigration violations, including
those with a record of illegal re-entry and those who have engaged in
immigration fraud.

Source: Immigrations and Customs Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deport the serious criminals

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 518 words


Predictably, the Obama administration's decision to focus deportation efforts on
illegal immigrants who commit crimes rather than those who don't has been
derided as "amnesty." That case doesn't hold up against an administration that's
breaking deportation records.

Last week, White House officials announced that immigration officials no longer
will concentrate on low-priority targets such as non-criminals, particularly
caregivers, people in poor health, military veterans and their relatives, and
people who have been here since childhood. The Obama administration acknowledges
that these people came to the United States illegally. Correctly, though, the
White House is directing the Department of Homeland Security to use
"prosecutorial discretion" to more judiciously select who to pursue.

Last fiscal year, the government deported nearly 400,000 illegal immigrants, a
record number. Roughly half were serious criminals. In Florida, 15,000 people
were deported, a third of them criminals. In a country with perhaps 11 million
illegal immigrants, deporting those who most need to go will make enforcement
smarter, not softer.

President Obama long has said he would single out dangerous criminals, but that
hasn't always been the case. One non-criminal target was Manuel Guerra, a
27-year-old from Indiantown who had lived in the U.S. since he was 16. He's been
awaiting a Sept. 1 deportation hearing, but under the new policy he may wind up
staying. Given that he poses no threat and resources are limited, such a
decision would make sense.

The decision dovetails with the expansion of the Secure Communities program,
which calls for federal immigration background checks of people arrested by
local police. Once voluntary, the program was declared mandatory this month.
Federal immigration officials will know more quickly and more often when illegal
immigrants are charged with crimes, which should mean more criminal
deportations. As Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said of the program,
"Even if you just get one criminal out of here, that's good."

These changes again challenge the need for a state crackdown on illegal
immigration. A key component of Florida's attempt this year to pass its own
Arizona-inspired law was allowing police to investigate a suspect's legal status
during a criminal investigation. Expansion of the Secure Communities program
should mean that federal agents take this role even more than before, weakening
the case for a constitutionally suspect gambit by the state for new immigration
enforcement powers.

The Obama administration's change seems calculated to win support from Hispanics
angered by the president's increased use of deportation. But Mr. Obama also has
been trying to appease lawmakers who insist on increased enforcement before
Congress considers comprehensive immigration reform.

Both elements will be necessary. Increased enforcement and the granting of legal
status must be components of any immigration overhaul that gets through
Congress, which is the only place to resolve this national problem.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSILLEGAL IMMIGRATIONOPINION: THE
DEBATE   STARTS HERE  Is Obama deporting too many illegal
immigrants?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your
smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'I can't believe I'm saying this' about illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 776 words


If only Congress could be like a focus group, at least when it comes to
immigration.

It's Labor Day weekend, when barbecue grills and emotions about illegal
immigration get fired up. Immigration is one of the in-plain-sight issues that
have remained much more of an issue, to paraphrase Lyndon Johnson, than a bill.

While Congress dithers -- what else, really, does Congress do these days but
dither? -- states flail as they try to solve a federal issue. Gov. Scott, who
ran in last year's primary on nothing but immigration but then dropped it, is
warming to the issue again.

Today, we will hear from someone whose job has exposed her to what "the people"
think on illegal immigration. Those thoughts may surprise you.

Tamara Jacoby is president and CEO of ImmigrationWorks USA. Based on the name,
it won't surprise you to learn that Ms. Jacoby's organization opposes mass
deportation and most of the other talk-radio solutions. Financial backers
include the National Restaurant Association, the American Hotel & Lodging
Association, Associated General Contractors and the American Meat Institute.
They represent industries accused of profiting from illegal immigrant labor.
They have an interest in legislation that offers legal status to illegals.

As part of her work in pressing the group's issues Ms. Jacoby -- a Republican
who worked at the Manhattan Institute think tank, Newsweek and The New York
Times -- has observed focus groups of Americans debating a solution to illegal
immigration the way a jury debates a verdict. On a recent visit to the area, she
spoke with The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board.

The first question to the focus group, Ms. Jacoby explained, was something like:
Are immigrants good or bad for America? The group's members then were asked to
list their reasons why immigrants were good or bad.

Not surprisingly, given that most Americans are descended from immigrants, the
responses tend to center first on "legal" immigrants, including those who came
before the United States had immigration laws. Then the discussion shifts to
illegal immigration, and the room begins to sizzle. Illegals are crowding out
Americans from emergency rooms. They're getting a free education paid for by
Americans. Press 1 for English.

"If you don't stop them," Ms. Jacoby said, "by the end of the two hours, they
are ready to come through the (one-way observation) mirror at you. They're that
angry."

Ask them what to do about the problem, however, and the flow of nativist lava
slows. "They get very pragmatic, very fast," Ms. Jacoby said. She sees a
"noticeable mood change."

Also not surprisingly, the default solution is to deport every last illegal
immigrant. But then the members try to figure out the practicalities -- which
include everything from cost to breaking up families who have lived here for
many years -- and they understand that mass deportation makes much less sense
face-to-face than it does coming out of a radio speaker.

From there, discussion moves to harassing immigrants out of the country. State
laws like the one Florida first considered embody this approach: Make the state
unfriendly. As with mass deportation, the focus group members eventually reject
this option -- for many of the same reasons. And who would do the jobs, such as
picking the produce that is supposed to be part of our new, healthier diet?

After about 45 minutes, Ms. Jacoby said, reality sets in. It begins with
comments like "I can't believe I'm saying this" and "Don't tell my husband." The
members agree that the illegals need some sort of legal status and a way to
"make amends" so we can "close the chapter on what happened."

By the end, those focus group members are describing the components of
comprehensive immigration reform that passed the Senate in 2006 but came no
closer in the last decade to becoming law, even though President Bush would have
signed it. One Senate bill paired the very conservative Republican Larry Craig
with the very liberal Democrat Ted Kennedy.

Unfortunately, Ms. Jacoby believes, Washington now sees immigration reform as a
Democratic issue. "So the Republicans won't pass it." The GOP thus finds itself
caught between primary voters who sound like focus group members in the first 45
minutes and the country's shifting demographics.

Ms. Jacoby hasn't convened a focus group in a while, but "I witnessed it many
times in years past, and part of what was so astonishing was how uniformly it
played out this way." So Americans can steam about a hot-button issue, cool down
and devise a solution. Why can't Congress?

Randy Schultz is the editor of editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. His email
address is schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FROM THE EDITOR OF THE EDITORIAL PAGE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Low-risk detainees avoid deportations ;
 NEW FEDERAL IMMIGRATION GUIDELINES

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1206 words


The implementation of a new national policy on deportations of illegal
immigrants didn't come a day too soon for Anibal Mazariegos of Indiantown.

His attorney, Daniel Yibirin of Boynton Beach, received an emailed letter early
Thursday from Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials announcing they had
canceled his client's scheduled removal from the United States.

Mazariegos, 37, who works as a landscaper, was released later in the day from
Broward Transitional Center in Pompano Beach, where he had been held for three
weeks. Guards at the detention center had told him to pack his bag, because he
was being shipped back to his native Guatemala after living for 20 years in the
U.S. and raising a family in South Florida.

"He was very, very close to being deported," Yibirin said. "Basically, he would
have been on a plane next Wednesday."

The Department of Homeland Security, which oversees ICE, announced Thursday that
ICE was immediately beginning to train its immigration prosecutors to exercise
"prosecutorial discretion" in dealing with the country's 300,000 pending
deportation cases. That policy is designed to suspend the deportations of
thousands of undocumented people with no serious criminal records -- many in
South Florida -- to diminish the onerous caseload on immigration courts and to
allow immigration authorities to more quickly process the cases and removals of
undocumented immigrants who are considered threats.

"Beginning immediately, ICE attorneys nationwide will review all incoming cases
in immigration court," the Department of Homeland Security said. "This review
... will help reduce inefficiencies that delay the removal of criminal aliens
and other priority cases by preventing new low-priority cases from clogging the
immigration court dockets."

The statement said the review will focus on cases on the immigration courts
calendar but also will look at cases not yet filed in immigration court, which
implies that many people who in the past have ended up in deportation
proceedings may never reach that point.

Apparently toward that same end, the department said ICE agents in the field
will be required to complete training by Jan. 13 in implementing the new policy
in various situations.

Many agents have opposed the more lenient deportation policies espoused by the
Obama administration. Chris Crane, head of the 7,000-member union for ICE
agents, has denounced the new policy as "backdoor amnesty."

"Any American concerned about immigration needs to brace themselves for what's
coming," Crane said when the policy changes were first floated. "This is just
one of many new ICE policies ... aimed at stopping the enforcement of U.S.
immigration laws in the United States."

But the statement Thursday indicates "prosecutorial discretion" will start at
the street level.

The new policy was mentioned in an internal memo written in June by John Morton,
director of ICE. In August it was discussed publicly by White House officials.
But immigration attorneys in South Florida and elsewhere complained that it was
not implemented. Many people with no criminal past were still being detained,
put in the deportation pipeline and in some cases deported.

The Border Patrol, another agency under Homeland Security, has remained
particularly busy in detaining undocumented people, leading immigration
attorneys to complain that there is no cogent immigration enforcement policy in
place.

"We would like to see consistency, not just within ICE but among all the
agencies in DHS," Susana Barciela, spokeswoman for Americans for Immigrant
Justice, said Thursday.

Over the past several months, immigration prosecutors explained the new policy
had not been implemented because they had not been given the guidelines. The
announcement Thursday appears to change that.

Morton and his leadership team visited cities around the U.S. over the past
month, including Miami, to instruct ICE agents and immigration prosecutors on
the new policy.

Beginning Dec. 4, the Homeland Security and Justice departments will launch
pilot programs in the Baltimore and Denver jurisdictions, reviewing all cases
pending in immigration courts. For the next six weeks, immigration judges in
those two locales will concentrate on cases of people currently in detention, to
clear those cases and help establish a plan for the entire country.

Homeland Security said it will use guidelines set out in Morton's June memo to
decide who will see their deportation cases suspended. Yibirin said his client,
Mazariegos, fits several of the criteria laid out by Morton.

"He's been here 20 years and is a good, responsible, hardworking person," the
attorney said. Mazariegos has no criminal record or prior deportation order. He
also has four U.S.-born children, one of whom has a heart condition, and he
provides for another child born into his wife's family.

Yibirin also said Mazariegos had a strong case for asylum 20 years ago because
the part of Guatemala he escaped was ravaged by guerrilla war and his life was
in danger. But his asylum plea was denied after authorities said he missed a
court date. Mazariegos said he in fact arrived at the immigration court, but it
had been closed because of an approaching hurricane.

Richard Hujber, head of the Boynton Beach firm that represents Mazariegos,
Hujber Law Group, said it was unclear why his client was chosen for release on
the very morning of the Homeland Security announcement. But Hujber said he had
emailed a copy of a New York Times story about the imminent implementation of
the policy to an immigration prosecutor early Thursday, saying his client was a
good candidate for release.

"About an hour later, we got the letter saying his removal had been suspended,"
Hujber said. "Who knows if one thing had to do with the other."

Mazariegos was told in the letter that his deportation was suspended for one
year. The suspension could be extended later, but the letter also said officials
can change their minds at any moment. The suspension of deportation does not
confer legal status on him. He must report to ICE once a month.

But Mazariegos, reached a few minutes after arriving home to his family, was
still elated.

"I'm very, very happy," he said. "Being deported would have meant being
separated from my family, and that would have been very hard. Today I'm very
happy."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Federal guidelines for prosecutorial discretion

Immigration and Customs EnforcementDirector John Morton issued a June memo
discussing guidelines that immigration prosecutors might use to decide whether
to suspend deportation proceedings against certain illegal immigrants. Here are
some of them:

- Whether the person poses a national security or public safety concern.

- The person's criminal history, including arrests, prior convictions or
outstanding arrest warrants.

- The person's age, with particular consideration given to minors and the
elderly.

- Length of time in the U.S.

- Whether the person has a U.S. citizen or permanent resident spouse, child or
parent.

- Whether the person or the person's immediate relative has served in the U.S.
military, reserves or National Guard, with particular consideration given to
those who served in combat.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Z Some guidelines for immigration prosecutors. 12A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rules to ease for immigrants with citizen kin

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 835 words


The Obama administration Friday said it plans to make it easier for some illegal
immigrants who are immediate relatives of U.S. citizens to attain a legal right
to stay in the country, a move that could affect thousands of people in South
Florida.

The current procedures require U.S. citizens to apply for legal status for those
relatives and for the undocumented people to leave the U.S. in order to file for
waivers that will allow them to become legal residents. It is a process that
takes on average six months before they are given an immigrant visa and allowed
back into the U.S. If the waiver is denied, the family member could be barred
from entering the U.S. for up to 10 years.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said Friday that cases occur in which the U.S. citizens suffer
"extreme hardship" because their loved ones are forced to leave the country for
long periods of time.

He cited the instance of U.S. citizens who are seriously ill and depend on
undocumented family members for medical care. Later, in a response to questions
from reporters, he said extreme hardship might also be caused by financial
issues and other stresses on the family.

The new rules will allow those illegal-immigrant family members to apply for the
necessary hardship waivers from inside the U.S. and not be forced to leave the
country for long periods while they wait for the waivers to be processed.

"The goal is to reduce the time of separation and alleviate extreme hardship to
U.S. citizens," Mayorkas said.

Some Republicans immediately took aim at the proposed change. GOP lawmakers have
said President Obama's changes to immigration policy, without Congressional
consent, amount to "backdoor amnesty" for illegal immigrants.

Friday, U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee and a frequent critic of immigration policy, accused the president of
putting the interests of illegal immigrants ahead of those of Americans.

"It seems President Obama plays by his own rules to push unpopular policies on
the American people," Smith said.

Conservative commentators were also framing the new policy as a way for the
Obama administration to court favor with Latino voters leading up to the
November election.

It is the second time in a matter of months that the administration has made
changes in immigration policy that were applauded by immigrant advocates and by
many people in the Latino community.

Late last year, the administration announced that it would review 300,000
deportation cases currently in the pipeline and postpone the deportation of many
people who are not criminals and are believed to pose no threat to society.

The new waiver policy, which Mayorkas said he hopes will take effect this year,
would apply only to the spouses and children of U.S. citizens, not siblings. It
would also be restricted to undocumented people whose only issue with U.S. law
is that they are in the country illegally. No person who has been convicted of a
crime or has other legal issues will be covered by the new rule.

While the waivers will now be applied for from inside the U.S. once their cases
come up and they are granted the waivers, the illegal immigrants will still have
to leave the U.S., go to a U.S. consulate and apply for an actual immigrant
visa.

But once the person is interviewed in a consulate, the visa will in most cases
be issued in short order.

"It will not be months, it will be days or weeks," Mayorkas said. "The period of
separation is significantly reduced."

He said statutes call for immigration law to be applied in a way that avoids
extreme hardship to U.S., citizens and that the rule change is intended "to
better serve the goals of the present law."

Mayorkas said that last year, 23,000 applications for hardship waivers were
received by Citizenship and Immigration Services and 17,000 were granted. But
Boynton Beach immigration attorney Richard Hujber said Friday's announcement
will lead to many more people applying.

"A lot of people don't even know these waivers exist," he said. "It was 23,000
last year, but now they are going to be flooded with them."

"A lot of clients come in here, and when they hear they may have to spend months
outside the U.S. in order to apply, they lose interest," Hujber said.

There is also the danger that the waiver will be denied and then the person who
has been in the U.S. illegally is faced by a penalty period between three and 10
years before they can even apply for a visa again.

"They simply don't want to leave the country and risk that, so they don't
apply," Hujber said. "Many more of those persons will apply now. This is going
to help a lot of people."

Immigration attorney Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach also applauded the
change.

"This is a good day for America," she said. "Hopefully, in 2012, Congress will
finally act in a bipartisan way, to give our nation an immigration system that
fosters legal migration and reflects our nation's labor needs."

~ John_Lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP visions diverge on Univision

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE and JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 376 words


The fight to woo the Florida GOP's largest minority group heated up Wednesday
with Newt Gingrich calling Mitt Romney's plan to deal with illegal immigration
laughable while the former Massachusetts governor accused Gingrich of pandering
to Hispanic voters.

Even Romney acknowledged that the stakes were high. When an interviewer for the
Spanish-language Univision TV network suggested Romney could claim a Latin
heritage because his father was born on a Mormon enclave in Mexico, Romney said
it could help him win votes in the Sunshine State.

"I would love to be able to convince people of that, particularly in a Florida
primary," he said.

The stage for Wednesday's fight over Hispanic voters was set when Romney and
Gingrich were interviewed separately in Univision studios.

Former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania was invited but declined, saying it
conflicted with much-needed private fundraisers to bolster his flagging
campaign. U.S. Rep. Ron Paul is not campaigning in Florida.

Gingrich opened fire on Romney by suggesting that his opponent's so-called
"self-deportation" plan should make any right-thinking person guffaw.

"I mean you're a very sophisticated observer," Gingrich said, turning to TV
interviewer Jorge Ramos. "How close are you to breaking up, laughing out loud,
at this fantasy?"

Romney offered the idea at Monday's debate as an alternative to rounding up
illegal immigrants and sending them home. Instead, he said, with better
enforcement of existing laws, illegal immigrants would be unable to find jobs
and would return home voluntarily.

Despite all the furor, a poll conducted by Latino Decisions for Univision News
and ABC News found that neither has much of a chance of wooing Hispanic voters
away from President Obama. Nationally, more than 70 percent of those surveyed
said they would vote for Obama over Romney or Gingrich.

And, in Tuesday's primary, 35 percent of Hispanic Republicans surveyed said they
would vote for Romney, with 20 percent supporting Gingrich.

Another Hispanic leader also weighed in Wednesday. Apparently hearing that both
Romney and Gingrich want to wrest control of Cuba from him, Fidel Castro called
the race the greatest competition of "idiocy and ignorance" the world has ever
seen.

~ jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In your community

BYLINE:

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 876 words


MANALAPAN

Reports: Boat brought immigrants

Authorities are investigating reports of possible undocumented immigrants coming
ashore on a boat early Thursday. Police from Manalapan and neighboring Lantana
were called to the beach just south of East Ocean Avenue in response to the
reports. "It was a small-sized Boston Whaler," Lantana police Sgt. Sean Scheller
said. "Ten life jackets were later found in the area, but no subjects have been
taken into custody." The boat came ashore around 1:20 a.m. in Manalapan,
according to police dispatchers. The case has been turned over to U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, Scheller said.

-- Sonja Isger

LOXAHATCHEE

High school placed on lockdown

Seminole Ridge High School was placed on lockdown for the last 90 minutes of the
school day Thursday after an "incident happened with students," school district
spokeswoman Natalia Arenas said. She declined to provide further details. No one
was allowed to enter or leave the school from 1:20 p.m. until the regular
dismissal time of 2:50 p.m. Students left the school, in the 4600 block of
Seminole Pratt Whitney Road, in a "staggered dismissal," Arenas said. School
police were investigating the incident late Thursday.

-- Allison Ross

boynton beach

Police: Woman struck boyfriend

A suburban Lake Worth woman was arrested Wednesday after she was accused of
attacking her boyfriend with a bat because he allegedly was cheating on her.
Lilande Saint Louis, 26, is facing charges of aggravated battery with a deadly
weapon and criminal mischief. Saint Louis was taken into custody in suburban
Boynton Beach. She told a Palm Beach County sheriff's deputy that she went to a
home on Boynton Place Circle because she suspected her boyfriend of cheating and
learned from her visit that he was, according to the probable cause affidavit.
An altercation ensued. She denied hitting him with a bat, the affidavit said.

-- Cynthia Roldan

Students host sales for relay

Students of Atlantic High School are holding a garage sale and bake sale to
benefit the American Cancer Society's Relay for Life. The sale runs from 8 a.m.
to 3 p.m. Saturday at 2526 S.W. 12th St., Boynton Beach. For more information,
call (561) 523-8617.

-- Lona O'Connor

WELLINGTON

Changes make way for Walgreens

The village council on Tuesday voted to vacate 3,292 square feet of a water
easement and 2,106 square feet of a sewer easement on the south side of the
Wellington Marketplace plat so the Wellington Marketplace project can build a
Walgreens with one drive-through lane. The village's Development Review
Committee in August approved an amendment to the Wellington Marketplace site
plan for the proposed pharmacy. The owner will be required to replace the
easements with supplemental utility easements to maintain water and sewer
service and move existing water and sewer lines.

-- Mitra Malek

Village OKs contract for fireworks

Zambelli Fireworks will continue to light up village skies this year. The
village council on Tuesday approved a renewal option for a $30,000 contract with
the company, which has provided fireworks displays for Wellington for the past
11 years.

-- Mitra Malek

Lake park

Titcomb back as town manager

Jamie Titcomb returned to work Thursday, one day after commissioners unanimously
approved a 30-day contract for the former North Palm Beach village manager to
serve as the town's interim town manager. He replaces acting town manager David
Hunt, who has been filling in for Maria Davis since she resigned Jan. 30. The
agreement, which will pay Titcomb a base salary of $8,333 per month, can be
renewed by mutual agreement for an additional 30 days or other period with the
execution of a written amendment.

-- Jodie Wagner

jupiter

Roads closed for ArtiGras

Town Center Drive in Abacoa will close to traffic at 6 a.m. Saturday and will
reopen at 8 p.m. Monday for ArtiGras. Central Boulevard between Main Street and
Frederick Small Road, and University Drive between Central Boulevard and Main
Street, will be closed until 6 p.m. Tuesday. The three-day outdoor art and
entertainment festival is expected to draw about 150,000 visitors. For
information, go to artigras.org or call (561) 748-3946.

-- Bill DiPaolo

GREENACRES

Dance with your daughter

Fathers and other adult relatives are invited to bring their daughters, nieces,
granddaughters and stepdaughters to the Daddy Daughter Dance on Saturday night.
The special night of dancing includes a dinner buffet and dessert bar. The dance
will be from 6:30 to 9 p.m. in the Greenacres Community Center, 501 Swain Blvd.
Tickets are $46 per couple and $23 for each additional child. Tickets must be
purchased in advance. For information, call (561) 642-2090.

-- Willie Howard

DELRAY BEACH

Lawyer suspended for 91 days

A Delray Beach lawyer has been suspended from practice for 91 days for filing
frivolous and untrue pleadings even after a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge slapped
her with $14,000 in sanctions when she ignored his orders to stop. Mary Alice
Gwynn also must pay $21,000 to cover the cost of the disciplinary proceedings,
according to an order Thursday by the Florida Supreme Court. Because the
suspension is for a day more than three months, she will have to reapply for
admission to the Florida Bar and prove she has been rehabilitated.

-- Jane Musgrave

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Community briefs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Roundup targets illegal immigrants ;
 More than 3,100 are arrested nationwide, including 18 in county.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 388 words


More than 3,100 illegal immigrants living in the United States, including 18 in
Palm Beach County and 16 on the Treasure Coast, have been arrested during a
weeklong roundup that U.S. officials said was its largest in years.

According to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officers participating in
Operation Cross Check arrested 2,834 people who had prior criminal convictions.
Many had been released from prison but were not immediately deported. Of that
total, 1,477 have felony convictions that include murder, manslaughter,
attempted murder, kidnapping, assault with a deadly weapon, armed robbery, drug
trafficking, child abuse, and aggravated assault. Fifty are linked to gangs and
149 are convicted sex offenders, ICE said.

In addition to the Palm Beach County arrests, there were three in Martin County,
13 in St. Lucie, 53 in Broward and 70 in Miami-Dade.

The director of the ICE Miami field office, Marc Moore, explained that many of
those arrested may have been undocumented, but they could also have been legal
permanent residents or people who entered the country legally with visas before
committing a crime.

In the past, such people often were not asked what their immigration status was
when they were arrested and convicted. After imprisonment, they were not
identified immediately as noncitizens and instead of being deported were
mistakenly released, Moore said.

Included in the nationwide total were 559 who had been deported but had entered
again illegally, which is a felony.

Those arrested came from 116 countries.

Moore said the arrests were designed to send "a clear message: We will find them
and we will remove them from the country." He also said that ICE -- through its
new emphasis on removing criminal aliens and its use of the Secure Communities
program -- is doing a better job of ensuring that convicted noncitizens are not
released. Secure Communities allows ICE to collaborate with local police to
identify noncitizens who are arrested.

But Cheryl Little, executive director of the Miami-based advocacy group
Americans for Immigrant Justice, said: "ICE keeps telling the public that
roundups like this target dangerous criminals. Sounds great, but that's not the
reality. ... Many have only committed misdemeanor traffic violations."

The Sun Sentinel contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal status foils law graduates ;
 Brought to the U.S. as children, they can't be licensed as adults.;
Top FSU law grad can't practice because he's an illegal migrant.

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 804 words


Jose Godinez-Samperio is a former Eagle Scout who graduated at the top of his
class at Florida State University's College of Law and passed the Bar on his
first try.

But he may never practice law. Godinez-Samperio is an illegal immigrant, brought
to this country when he was 9.

The Florida Board of Bar Examiners denied Godinez-Samperio entry into the state
Bar because of his legal status. Instead, it is asking the state Supreme Court
whether undocumented immigrants can be licensed as lawyers.

Godinez-Samperio is not alone in his quest to become a lawyer despite being in
the United States illegally. Similar cases have cropped up in New York and
California.

It's an issue Godinez-Samperio, 25, did not think he would face after years of
hard work to earn his law degree, said his attorney, former FSU President Talbot
"Sandy" D'Alemberte, who argues that the board's rule requiring proof of
immigration status is invalid because it never got Supreme Court approval. The
state Supreme Court governs the Bar.

"Jose did not try to fake it. He admitted to the Bar and the Florida State law
school that he was an undocumented immigrant," D'Alemberte said.

"The board of examiners has no business acting like it's ICE (U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement) or the Department of Justice because the Department of
Justice and ICE have indicated they are not going to deport people like Jose,"
he added.

Others say granting Godinez-Samperio a law license could "open a can of worms."

"Where do you draw the line if you allow this profession to operate just because
it's perceived as a higher profession?" said Broward County Republican political
strategist Tim McClellan. "What's to say a plumber doesn't get the same rights?
What's to say the guy who picks crops doesn't get the same rights? It makes it a
very complicated issue to move forward without taking into account the whole
ramification of how it will affect other industries, other people and families."

But McClellan expects this issue will not be decided at the state level and will
instead end up at the U.S. Supreme Court.

"I think they would defer it because there are too many other issues involved,"
he said.

Since the board requested the state Supreme Court's input in December, eight
members of Congress, including Rep. Kathy Castor, D-Tampa, and four former
American Bar Association presidents have sent letters to the court, urging it to
grant law licenses to illegal immigrants who have passed the Bar.

"As Floridians, we are already investing time and money toward undocumented
students through 12th grade," Castor wrote. "To deny these students the
opportunity to become doctors or lawyers or practice another profession is to
deny the state of Florida and all of our neighbors an educated and talented
workforce."

Thousands of illegal immigrants were too young to remember when their parents
brought them to the United States. Godinez-Samperio moved to rural Hillsborough
County from Mexico when he was 9.

His parents overstayed their visas and never returned home. The boy's father, a
veterinarian in Mexico, milked cows on a dairy farm, and his mother, a dentist,
worked at a factory that made sliding glass doors.

Meanwhile, Godinez-Samperio learned English, became an Eagle Scout and
eventually an assistant scoutmaster, and graduated valedictorian of his senior
class at Armwood High School in Hillsborough County in 2004.

He then attended New College of Florida in Sarasota and later was admitted to
Florida State's law school.

Godinez-Samperio's case is not an isolated one.

In California, law student Sergio Garcia is also awaiting a state Supreme Court
decision on whether he should be allowed to practice law despite his illegal
status. He was brought to the U.S. from Mexico as a baby.

In New York, Mexican immigrant Cesar Vargas, 28, who graduated from law school
at the City University of New York and passed the state Bar exam, awaits word on
whether he will be able to practice law because he is undocumented. He was
brought to the United States at 5 by his mother.

D'Alemberte said these cases should give lawmakers more reason to support
changes in immigration law, including passage of the Dream Act, which would make
it easier for illegal immigrants to attend college or join the armed forces. It
has been blocked in Congress.

While U.S. immigration law would prohibit Godinez-Samperio from earning income
in the United States while he is undocumented, D'Alemberte added, a Florida law
license would make him eligible to work as an attorney for the Mexican consulate
or as an adviser to Mexican immigrants considering crossing the border.

"He doesn't have to violate American immigration law in order to use his
credentials in a way that would contribute something," D'Alemberte said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 U.S. Marines killed, 2 injured in aircraft crash during drill

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 534 words


RABAT, MOROCCO

Two U.S. Marines were killed and two severely injured in the crash of a hybrid
aircraft, known as an MV-22 Osprey, in Morocco on Wednesday, officials said. The
Osprey crashed in a military training area southwest of Agadir, Morocco, after
taking off from aboard the amphibious assault ship USS Iwo Jima, said Capt.
Kevin Schultz, a Marine spokesman.

Schultz said the Osprey, which takes off and lands like a helicopter and flies
like an airplane, was participating in an annual U.S.-Moroccan military exercise
known as African Lion. Further information was being withheld until the next of
kin of the killed and injured Marines were notified, Schultz said.

WASHINGTON

U.S. budget deficit hits record for March

The U.S. budget deficit is running slightly lower than last year's through the
first six months of the budget year but is still on track to top $1 trillion for
a fourth straight year.

The Treasury Department said Wednesday that the deficit in March totaled $198.2
billion, a record for that month. The Congressional Budget Office forecasts a
deficit of $1.17 trillion for the entire 2012 budget year, which began Oct. 1.

McALLEN, TEXAS

Crash kills 9 possible illegal immigrants

A van overstuffed with suspected illegal immigrants rolled and crashed after
fleeing a traffic stop in a South Texas border city, leaving at least nine
Mexican citizens dead and injuring six others, officials said Wednesday.

Immigration authorities have eight survivors in custody, according to Enrique
Mendiola, acting assistant chief for the Border Patrol's Rio Grande Valley
sector. The vehicle had been gutted to accommodate far more than the eight
people it was designed to carry, he said. An investigation is ongoing.

MOSCOW

Putin supports term limits ... after him

Vladimir Putin, the man who will become Russia's president for a third term next
month, indicated Wednesday he would back a law that bars others from doing what
he did, ruling as president more than twice.

But Putin also suggested such a law would not apply to himself, leaving open the
possibility that he could run for a fourth presidential term in 2018. If Putin
wins a fourth term, he would be leader of the Kremlin longer than anyone since
Josef Stalin.

ALGIERS, ALGERIA

First president of Algeria dies at 95

Ahmed Ben Bella, Algeria's first president and a historic leader of its bloody
independence struggle from France, died at his family home in Algiers on
Wednesday. He was 95.

Family members and the state news agency did not give the cause of death. The
charismatic Ben Bella was president of Algeria from 1963 until he was overthrown
in a military coup in 1965.

LOS ANGELES

UCLA errs, tells 894 they were accepted

Dear future UCLA student: Never mind.

Nearly 900 high school seniors who thought they could tell family and friends
they had earned a hard-won acceptance to UCLA have been told they received the
wrong information. They were actually on a waiting list.

The 894 prospective students received an email about financial aid awards last
weekend that included the phrase "congratulations on your admission to UCLA."
The problem occurred when the notices, sent Wednesday, went to those on the
waiting list as well.

-- Post wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR WORLD AT A GLANCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Illegal' scholars excel at showing our hypocrisy

BYLINE: frank cerabino

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 614 words


This is to all you high-achieving children of illegal immigrants:

Knock it off. You're making the rest of us look silly and mean.

We're supposed to be the good guys. Not you.

While some of us here in the greatest country on earth fantasize that you might
be interested in "self deportation," you keep excelling as your parents clean
our toilets, burp our kids, and pick our vegetables for low pay.

It's getting embarrassing. Especially lately.

Last month, it was Daniela Pelaez, the valedictorian of North Miami Senior High
School, who is also the daughter of illegal immigrants from Colombia. Her older
brother, who has become a citizen, serves in the U.S. Army. But the 18-year-old
girl, who has lived in America since she was 4 and finished atop her high school
class, was scheduled to be deported to Colombia.

Couldn't you be lazier, Daniela? Did you have to beat out all the citizen kids
in your class?

Jeez, even U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, the child of Cuban immigrants who has to
pretend that Hispanic invaders are a national menace, was shamed enough to come
to your defense.

That wasn't considerate of you, Daniela. Rubio needs to be against the DREAM
Act, the very piece of legislation that would keep you from being deported, in
order to keep his political base. But being against you is flat-out inhumane.

So Rubio has had to say he's for an imaginary, contradictory immigration policy
that "does not reward or encourage illegal immigration by granting amnesty, but
helps accommodate talented young people like Daniela, who find themselves
undocumented through no fault of their own."

See how two-faced and foolish you're making him look?

So now you're getting a two-year reprieve on your deportation. I hope you're not
planning to continue to excel, Daniela.

And this month, we have another one of your Latino over-achievers making us stew
in the juices of our hypocrisy even more.

He is Jose Godinez-Samperio, a Tampa-area high school valedictorian -- What is
it with you people? -- who went on to college and to finish law school at
Florida State University with honors.

But Godinez-Samperio, 25, the son of Mexican immigrants who came here legally
but overstayed their visas, can't practice as a lawyer because the Florida Board
of Bar Examiners has denied him entry to the Florida Bar because he's an
undocumented immigrant.

Godinez-Samperio, who has lived in Florida since he was 9, not only did well in
school, but was an Eagle Scout who served as his Boy Scout troop's senior patrol
leader, the highest position in the group.

Did you have to be so wonderful, Jose?

"Jose can only be described as a highly motivated individual," his Scoutmaster
Charles Anderson wrote in a letter to the Florida Board of Bar Examiners. "Even
though he came from humble beginnings from an economically disadvantaged family,
he worked hard and earned all the money he needed to pay his own way for all the
activities of Scouting."

You're ruining the script, Jose. You're supposed to be one of the shiftless
freeloaders who are sponging off the great people of this nation.

Instead, Godinez-Samperio has a few past presidents of the American Bar
Association standing beside him as he petitions the Florida Supreme Court for a
chance to be admitted to the Bar.

If Godinez-Samperio is admitted to the Bar, he can't be paid for practicing law
in Florida, but he wouldn't be prohibited from doing unpaid legal work.

Sheesh, now we have to be against somebody who just wants to be a free lawyer.
Way to make us feel small, Jose.

I hope you, Daniela and all those other high-achieving children of illegal
immigrants realize the harm your success is doing to our cherished preconceived
notions.

~ frank_cerabino@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama aims ads at Florida Latinos ;
 His allies call Romney 'extreme' on immigration, but GOP fires back.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 621 words


As President Obama's campaign launched a Spanish-language TV ad blitz in Florida
and other swing states with large Hispanic populations, Obama campaign manager
Jim Messina and San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro painted presumptive GOP nominee
Mitt Romney as "extreme" on immigration.

Republicans, who launched their own Latino outreach program this week, countered
by blaming Obama for a sour economy that has been tougher on Hispanics than
other groups.

"Mitt Romney would be the most extreme nominee that the Republican Party has
ever had on immigration," said Castro, who joined Messina and Sen. Robert
Menendez, D-N.J., on a Wednesday conference call to tout the "Latinos for Obama"
campaign initiative.

Messina also used the word "extreme" to describe Romney's immigration stance --
echoing criticism from Romney's Republican rival Newt Gingrich, who called the
former Massachusetts governor "anti-immigrant" in a January radio ad that was
pulled after Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., objected.

Romney has called for beefed-up border security and tougher employer
verification standards to curb illegal immigration. He also said Arizona's
controversial law cracking down on illegal immigrants was a "model." And Romney
has said he would veto the Dream Act, which would offer a path to citizenship to
children of illegal immigrants who were raised in the U.S. and complete two
years of college or military service.

Romney adviser Albert Martinez accused Obama's allies of trying to divert
attention from the president's "record of failure on the issues most important
to Latinos. Hispanics have been hit especially hard as a result of three years
of President Obama's record of high unemployment, soaring debt and skyrocketing
gas prices. President Obama will do everything possible to make this election
about anything other than his failed record."

The Obama camp Wednesday began airing ads in Florida, Nevada and Colorado aimed
at Latino voters, who supported Obama by a 2-1 margin in 2008. But Hispanic
allegiance to the Democratic Party slipped to 60 percent in the 2010
congressional elections.

Obama, who won Florida with 51 percent in 2008, got 57 percent of the state's
Latino vote over Republican John McCain, after Republican George W. Bush was
supported by 56 percent of Florida Hispanics four years earlier. Hispanics are
about 13 percent of the electorate in Florida.

The Obama campaign touted the president's support for immigration reform and
said Hispanics are benefiting from the federal health care overhaul and programs
such as Head Start and Pell Grants.

Republicans fired back that Latinos have been harder hit by the economic
downturn.

The Hispanic unemployment rate was 10 percent in January 2009, when Obama took
office. It reached 13.1 percent in November 2010 and stood at 10.3 percent last
month -- 2 percentage points higher than the overall national unemployment rate.

"Does President Obama think Hispanics suffer from amnesia?" said U.S. Rep. Mario
Diaz-Balart, R-Miami. "He may think we have forgotten about his broken promises
to save or create 3.5 million jobs, pledge to cut the deficit by half by the end
of his first term, or make immigration reform a top priority during his first 12
months as president.

"Not even the most eloquent rhetoric in the world can hide the fact that this
has been a failed presidency with nothing but empty promises."

Republicans pointed to Obama's 2008 campaign promise to make immigration reform
a "top priority" during his first year in office.

But Menendez blamed Republicans for blocking immigration reform by using Senate
procedural rules to require 60 votes to pass legislation. The senator called
Obama "someone who clearly stands on our side."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As jobs decline, many illegal immigrants are;
RETURNING TO MEXICO

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1124 words


When Mitt Romney said months ago that enforcing laws against employing illegal
immigrants could lead to "self-deportation" by those workers, many critics
scoffed.

But according to a new Pew Hispanic Center study, that may be exactly what's
happening.

Mexicans have stopped pouring into the United States, the study says, and the
net numbers even indicate that they're going back home. More than half of
Mexican-born people in the U.S. are illegal, and Mexicans make up nearly 60
percent of all illegal immigrants here.

Their migration, over 40 years, is the largest immigrant wave in terms of
numbers in U.S. history.

Many factors contribute to the reversal of net migration, according to the
study, which analyzed government data from both countries. Among them are the
weakened American job market, especially the construction industry; stepped-up
border enforcement; a rise in deportations; greater danger crossing the border
illegally; and a decline in Mexico's birthrates.

The study found that while 200,000 Mexicans came to the U.S. legally between
2007 and 2010, 800,000 who were here illegally left. That lowered the total
number of Mexican-born people in the U.S. from 12.6 million to 12 million, the
study says.

In Florida, the estimated number of Mexican immigrants decreased from 316,000 in
2007 to 263,000 in 2010.

After hitting a high of 26,400 in 2008, the Mexican population in Palm Beach
County decreased slightly but still exceeded 20,000 in 2010, according to census
estimates.

"Wherever you look in South Florida, there are fewer Mexicans," said Adan Labra,
a native of Mexico, now working for the Farmworker Association of Florida in the
farm town of Immokalee.

"We have fewer people working in farm work in Immokalee, and we know that many
people who worked in construction in other towns around here also lost their
jobs."

Tomato industry changes

The Farmworker Association says the number of farmworkers in Immokalee at peak
season has decreased from 22,000 in 2000 to 12,000 today.

Labra, 30, said one reason is that tomato growers have decreased the acreage
they plant because it has been harder to turn a profit. Some of the increased
competition they are facing is coming from Mexico, which exports tomatoes to the
U.S. Some employers that formerly operated in the Immokalee area have moved
their operations to Mexico and Central America, Labra said.

"I know some people who lost their jobs moved to other parts of the United
States, and I know other people who have returned to Mexico," he said. He didn't
know whether the people who picked tomatoes in Florida are now doing the same in
Mexico.

Labra also said many other people have been deported because of increased
cooperation between local law enforcement and federal immigration authorities.

The Pew Center study appeared this week as the U.S. Supreme Court is weighing
whether individual states can adopt their own immigration laws. Arizona has sued
the federal government for the right to detain illegal immigrants according to
its own laws, claiming that the state has been inundated with immigrants and the
criminals who smuggle them and that the U.S. has not done enough to stop that
traffic.

David Abraham, professor of immigration and citizenship law at the University of
Miami School of Law, said the drop in immigrant traffic also may be caused by a
slight uptick in the Mexican economy.

And while the study states that an improved U.S. economy could spur a resurgence
of emigration from Mexico in time, Abraham points to the falling birthrate in
Mexico as the key factor that could make the current lower figures a harbinger
of the future.

Less urgency to emigrate

In 1960 the average Mexican woman bore 7.3 children. By 2009 that figure had
plummeted to 2.4 children.

"That's a dramatic change in demographics," Abraham said. "When you have fewer
mouths to feed, that leads to less of a need to send someone from the family
north looking for work."

He also said more women in Mexico are going to school for more years, delaying
childbirth, and have left agricultural jobs for manufacturing jobs, leading to
more families bringing in two steady paychecks and creating less need to
emigrate.

"There is no question that the flow is going to slow down from Mexico, although
they may be replaced by Central Americans," Abraham said. "In fact, we're
already seeing that."

The study also found that the number of Mexicans apprehended trying to cross the
border illegally fell by more than 70 percent in recent years, from more than 1
million in 2005 to 286,000 in 2011. In each of the past two fiscal years, about
400,000 unauthorized immigrants were deported, roughly 70 percent of them
Mexicans.

Families returning to Mexico are in some cases taking their children born in the
U.S. who have dual citizenship. The 2010 Mexican Census counted 182,000
U.S.-born children under age 5 living with their Mexican parents in Mexico.

The natives of Mexico, both the 6.2 million undocumented and the 5.8 million
here legally, are by far the largest single group of immigrants among the 40
million people now in the U.S. who were born elsewhere.

The Mexican-born make up 30 percent of the immigrant population. Next in line
are the Chinese-born, who make up 5 percent.

"Looking back over the entire span of U.S. history, no country has ever sent as
many immigrants to this country as Mexico has in the past four decades," the
study says.

Security concerns persist

But the study also says that, compared with other immigrants, Mexico natives
"are younger, poorer, less-educated, less likely to be fluent in English and
less likely to be naturalized citizens."

Mexicans are by far the largest Latino bloc in the nation, and Latinos as a
whole are now the largest minority group in the U.S., having passed
African-Americans about a decade ago.

Abraham said waves of immigration have always caused worry among Americans
already here, but political parties often vied to win the votes of the new
arrivals and tamped down anti-immigrant feelings within their own ranks. He
pointed to President George W. Bush and his efforts to try to get the GOP to
court Latinos.

But Abraham said he believes worries about security since 9/11 have led many
conservatives to take a harder line on immigration than they had in the recent
past. Concerns over jobs also have contributed. That has led GOP front-runner
Mitt Romney to take a hard line on the immigration issue.

"But it's true that all over the world people have always been afraid at the
arrival of foreigners -- whether they spoke Italian, Chinese or Yiddish,"
Abraham said. "Immigration has never been popular. The attitude has always been,
'Close the door behind you.'''

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST IN DEPTHReverse migration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rooney offers bill to prohibit new immigration proposal

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 649 words


South Florida Congressman Tom Rooney is co-sponsoring a bill that would prohibit
President Obama from granting young undocumented immigrants a two-year stay of
deportation without the consent of Congress.

The attempt by Rooney, R-Tequesta, has almost no chance of passing Congress as a
whole, although it could be approved by the GOP-controlled House, where many
members see the new immigration policy as an Obama election year tactic to curry
favor with Latino voters. The Senate, controlled by Democrats, will almost
certainly kill Rooney's bill.

Friday, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano announced
that undocumented people who had arrived in the U.S. before age 16, are still 30
or younger, have spent five consecutive years in the U.S. and have legal records
clear of serious offenses can apply for two years of deferred action on
deportation and apply for work permits. Both those permissions can be renewed.

The directive by Napolitano follows guidelines originally contained in the Dream
Act, a bill that has failed to pass the Congress, despite three tries. A major
difference between the Obama administration directive and the original bill is
the new measure does not provide recipients with a path to U.S. citizenship, but
Latino voters who have responded to polls in recent days still overwhelmingly
approved of the new directive. Rooney and U.S. Rep. Ben Quayle, R-Ariz.,
co-sponsored the bill to halt Napolitano from enforcing the directive.

"President Obama is once again sidestepping the Constitution, ignoring the
proper role of Congress and putting his re-election prospects ahead of his
responsibilities to the American people. ... The president can't ignore the
Constitution every time he thinks something is 'the right thing to do,' " he
said.

Rooney said that in issuing the directive Obama contradicted his own statement,
made Sept. 28, when he told supporters of the Dream Act that "this notion that
somehow I can just change the laws unilaterally is just not true."

"This kind of executive action does a disservice to the goal of passing
comprehensive immigration reform," Rooney said.

Rooney's position mirrors that of presumptive GOP presidential candidate Mitt
Romney and of Florida U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, a possible running mate of Romney,
both of whom have criticized the Obama move as a short-term solution to a
long-term problem and as a way sidestepping Congress.

Rubio earlier this year proposed his own version of the Dream Act, one that
closely resembles the Obama administration directive but did not restrict
deferred deportation action to two years. After the announcement, Rubio said he
was shelving his plan.

Romney has said if elected he would press for a more permanent solution, but has
not given details.

Romney finds himself caught between the conservative base of his party, which
wants strict enforcement of immigration laws, and Latino voters who could decide
close contests in November in key states, such as Florida, Arizona and Colorado.

Even before Friday's announcement, Romney trailed Obama in polls of Latinos 67
percent to 27 percent, according to a Pew Research Center poll in May. But
Latino political pundits say some Latino voters might stay home, unhappy with
Obama over lack of progress on comprehensive immigration reform and the Dream
Act, and angry at the record number of deportations in the first three years of
his term -- 1.1 million.

Latino organizations, including America's Voice, say their polling in the days
since the Friday announcement shows an upswing in enthusiasm for Obama among
Latinos.

A Bloomberg poll, conducted since the announcement, found of all likely U.S.
voters, 64 percent backed the new policy and 30 percent oppose it. By party, 86
percent of Democrats support the measure, while only 36 percent of Republicans
do. Independents favor the directive 66 to 26 percent.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  IMMIGRATION DEBATEState

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

On immigration, Rubio accuses both sides of 'political pingpong'

BYLINE: By George Bennett Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 560 words


LAKE BUENA VISTA -- Republican Sen. Marco Rubio accused President Obama of
playing politics with immigration, but he also faulted hard-liners in his own
party for ignoring the "human issue" in the debate over people who are in the
country illegally.

Speaking Friday to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials at Walt Disney World, Rubio said Obama's directive last week to halt
deportations of the children of illegal immigrants was similar to a solution
Rubio had been developing for months while being criticized from the left.

"Of course, a few months later the president takes a similar idea and implements
it through executive action, and now it's the greatest idea in the world," the
Florida senator said. "I don't care who gets the credit. I don't. But it exposes
the fact that this issue is all about politics for some people."

Rubio called immigration a complicated issue that has been hijacked by political
considerations on the left and right.

"As long as this issue of illegal immigration is a political pingpong that each
side uses to win elections and influence votes, I'm telling you it won't get
solved. Because there are too many people who have concluded this issue
unresolved is more powerful. They want it to stay unresolved," Rubio said.

Rubio stepped on his own message a few moments later.

"I was tempted to come here and rip open the policies of the administration,"
said Rubio, who spoke about two hours before Obama was slated to appear before
the conference.

"I was tempted to come here and tell you, 'Hey, he hasn't been here in three
years. What a coincidence; it's an election year.' I was tempted to tell you,
'Why didn't he make this issue a priority?' I just did tell you," Rubio
acknowledged as some in the audience laughed.

"But that's not the direction I want to go in my speech because if I did, if
that's what I came here to talk to you about, then I would be doing the exact
same thing that I just criticized."

While criticizing Obama, Rubio also took aim at those who call for a crackdown
on illegal immigrants. "The people who are against illegal immigration and make
that the core of their argument view it as only a law-and-order issue, but we
know it's much more than that," Rubio said.

"These are real people. These are human beings who have children and hopes and
dreams. These are people that are doing what virtually any of us would do if our
children were hungry, if their countries were dangerous, if they had no hope for
the future," Rubio said, drawing applause.

Rubio said a successful immigration solution must include credible enforcement,
to win the confidence of people upset by illegal immigration. And he said
existing immigration procedures must be made less burdensome and complicated for
people who play by the rules.

That still leaves the question of what do with the estimated 12 million people
now in the U.S. illegally, Rubio said.

"Here's the truth, if we're honest with ourselves: We don't know yet. I know
we're not going to round up and deport 12 million people. ... I know we're not
going to grant amnesty to 12 million people," Rubio said. "And somewhere between
those two ideas is the solution that will never be easy, but I promise you will
get easier to find if we have a legal immigration system that works and the
confidence of the American people."

george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla. voters back deportation block ;
 Poll shows Obama edges Romney here.

BYLINE: By George Bennett Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 701 words


Florida voters strongly support President Obama's new directive temporarily
lifting the threat of deportation for as many as 1.4 million young illegal
immigrants, according to a new Quinnipiac University poll that also finds Obama
edging Mitt Romney in the Sunshine State.

Obama's decision to bypass Congress and ease enforcement for undocumented people
who were brought to the U.S. by their parents is supported by 58 percent of
Florida voters and opposed by 33 percent, the poll says.

The poll, which has a 2.8 percent margin of error, shows Obama with a 45-41
percent lead over Romney in Florida. Obama held a 4-point lead in another
Quinnipiac Florida poll released last week.

Quinnipiac also released polls for two other swing states on Wednesday. Obama
holds a 9-point lead in Ohio and a 6-point edge in Pennsylvania

Florida's Senate race is a virtual tie, the new poll says, with Democratic Sen.
Bill Nelson getting 41 percent and Republican Rep. Connie Mack drawing 40
percent. They are favored to win Aug. 14 primaries.

While Obama's new immigration stance is popular, 58 percent of Florida voters
say it won't make a difference in their vote for president. Twenty-two percent
say they are now less likely to vote for Obama because of the policy and 17
percent say they are more likely.

The immigration policy has become an applause line in Obama's speeches,
including his address last week to the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials convention in Lake Buena Vista and a Tuesday night
appearance in Miami Beach in which his campaign targeted Hispanic voters.

Hispanic voters -- a key demographic in such battleground states as Florida,
Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico -- are most concerned about the economy, said
Matt Barreto of the opinion research firm Latino Decisions. But he said
immigration is a potent issue with Latinos.

"Immigration is a personal and symbolic and mobilizing issue," Barreto said last
week. "Obama or Romney is not going to single-handedly do anything on the
economy. But on immigration, Obama showed that he can single-handedly do
something."

Hispanics supported Obama by more than a 2-to-1 margin nationally in 2008. But
some Hispanics and advocates of liberalized immigration have faulted Obama for
not pushing comprehensive immigration reform since taking office and for
increasing deportations of illegal immigrants. The Department of Homeland
Security boasted in October that it had set a record by deporting 396,906
illegal immigrants in the year that ended Sept. 30.

Obama's directive deals with an estimated 800,000 to 1.4 million people who are
29 and younger, can prove they were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have no
felony or significant misdemeanor criminal history and have earned a high school
diploma or GED or served in the military.

"They are Americans through and through except for their paperwork," Obama said
to loud cheers during his Tuesday speech.

Obama, who got 57 percent of the Hispanic vote in Florida four years ago, gets
56 percent support from Florida Latino voters in the new Quinnipiac poll. The
margin of error for the Hispanic sample is 8.5 percent.

While the new immigration stance is supported by 58 percent of Floridians, it is
backed by 52 percent in Ohio and 51 percent in Pennsylvania.

While taking a lenient stance on undocumented people who were brought to the
U.S. by their parents, Florida voters also favor Gov. Rick Scott's efforts to
purge Florida voter rolls of noncitizens. Scott's policy got 60 percent support
in a Quinnipiac poll released last week.

george_bennett@pbpost.com

Swing-state poll results

If the election were today, who would you vote for?

FLA OHIO PA.

OBAMA 45% 47% 45%

ROMNEY 41% 38% 39%

OTHER/NONE 5% 6% 7%

DO YOU SUPPORT OBAMA'S NEW POLICY IN WHICH YOUNG ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WHO CAME TO
THE U.S. AS CHILDREN WILL NOT FACE DEPORTATION?

FLA OHIO PA.

SUPPORT 58% 52% 51%

OPPOSE 33% 38% 41%

DON'T KNOW/NO ANSWER 9% 9% 9%

WHO WOULD DO A BETTER JOB ON THE ECONOMY?

FLA OHIO PA.

OBAMA 44% 47% 44%

ROMNEY 46 % 42% 44%

DON'T KNOW/NO ANSWER 10% 11% 12%

WHO WOULD BE BETTER FOR YOUR PERSONAL ECONOMIC FUTURE?

FLA OHIO PA.

OBAMA 46% 47% 44%

ROMNEY 45% 42% 43%

DON'T KNOW/NO ANSWER 10% 11% 13%

SOURCE: QUINNIPIAC UNIVERSITY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  post on politics  voter poll

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Congress won't act, so local cops must

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1218 words


Royal Palm BeachConcerning Tuesday's editorial, "Florida wise not to

follow," I sharply disagree. Arizona was 100 percent right to give local and

state police authority to question suspected illegal immigrants.

When are Americans going to wake up? For the past 60 years Congress has

done nothing to defend this country against the economic and cultural

invasion by illegal immigrants; they provide cheap labor that benefits

wealthy corporations and takes jobs away from American citizens.

Being in the country illegally is a civil offense, but it should be a

criminal offense. If you're waiting for Congress to change that, don't hold

your breath; as long as they have their sticky little mitts in the deep

pockets of powerful lobbyists, Congress will never change our porous

immigration laws.

Suppose there is a bank robbery in Palm Beach County (a federal crime)

and an APB is put out for the suspects. Suppose those suspects are spotted

in Atlanta. Do the local authorities sit back and wait for the FBI to show

up? No. They make an arrest. Why should the violation of our immigration

laws be any different?

VITO LEONARDI

Greenacres

Where is ACLU on abortion mandate?

Who speaks out when a Christmas tree is displayed on the lawns of our town
halls, or yells and applies political pressure to our officials when a school
attempts to insert prayer into a graduation ceremony? Why, it's the ACLU! They
claim that there must be separation of church and state, don't they? I thought
they were the watchdogs of our Constitution. Are they?

Why does the ACLU scream about Christmas trees and then ignore President Obama's
health care mandate to insist that health plans include coverage for abortions
and contraception even if the provider is the Catholic Church? I think you might
say that this is a direct assault on church doctrine, and generally, an assault
on religious freedom. Am I to believe that since the ACLU is silent on the
matter that it either disagrees with that premise (hard to imagine) or it thinks
the matter is not as important as speaking out against Christmas trees?

RICHARD SANTO

Boynton Beach

Employers' unions better for bosses

It appears that unions are good, but for companies not for their employees.
Employers in almost every industry belong to "unions." But they are called
co-ops, trade organizations or the Chamber of Commerce.

The construction industry has Associated Builders and Contractors. In Miami
there is the Latin Builders Association. Electrical contractors are members of
the National Electrical Contractors Association. Small grocers are members of
Associated Grocers, auto dealers are members of an association and so are
restaurant owners.

These employer associations are created for their mutual aid and protection and
to pressure elected representatives, very similar to a trade union. The Chamber
of Commerce is far more influential with our elected representatives than the
AFL-CIO. Unions were an instrumental part in creating a middle class in this
country, and as unions shrink, so does the middle class.

DAVID WEITZ

Jupiter

Bullying incident shames kids, parents

Regarding the elderly bus monitor bullied by students: Yes, we are all shocked.
However, some questions remain unanswered: What was the bus driver's response?
Could he/she have pulled over and taken command of the situation or called for
backup?

A student recorded the incident. Did other students speak up against the
bullying? Those who work with youth know that sometimes the "good kids" can get
caught up in "gang mentality."

In this incident no one wins. Yes, the monitor receives our attention, sympathy
and monetary gifts; but hopefully the students involved will get what's coming
to them. The real losers are the parents. Many of them probably have tried to
teach their children to act better than this. Their pain can be felt by many.

All of us as parents and citizens must ask ourselves what we can do to counter
the inhumane acts that are becoming the norm rather than the exception.

COLLEEN WIGGINS

The Acreage

Would public school win a money poll?

Interesting article about the money -- $9,225 -- spent per student in Palm Beach
County public schools.

Why doesn't The Post undertake a poll to determine the number of folks who would
pull their children out of public school if they could divert the monies spent
toward private school tuition?

LAURENCE ROBINSON

Boynton Beach

Federal employees on taxation hit list

Federal employees have been singled out to pay an unfair share of the tax
burden. The reconciliation instructions in the House budget by Rep. Paul Ryan,
R-Wis., required six committees to find more than $331 billion in savings over
the next 10 years. The primary savings would come from requiring federal workers
to contribute more toward the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund
without an increase in benefits.

I say enough is enough. Find another source for cutting the deficit. Make the 1
percent -- the billionaires and corporations -- pay their fair share instead of
taking it away from those that need their salaries the most.

FLORENCE KAHN

Boynton Beach

Limiting drink sizes assaults free choice

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg proposes to ban sugary sodas larger than
16 ounces. These intrusive paternalistic policies won't prevent obesity. Those
who like the sugary foods and drinks will find other ways to get their fix.

If the proposal is initiated, will not people unable to buy the 32-ounce soda
opt to buy two 16-ounce sodas? Let's not police what people eat and drink. Work
on promoting decisions for healthier choices through other means, not taking
away the choice and freedom to decide.

CAROL SEAMON

Wellington

Stuck with Florida Blue? Support ACA

What do you call health insurance that denies a CT scan even though your PPO
does not require authorization? Health insurance that with a touch of the delete
button does away with prescription claims? Health insurance that arbitrarily
changes your age to increase premiums and raises premiums 22 percent?

Blue Cross Blue Shield Florida (now known as Florida Blue)!

Without the provisions of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), anyone with
BCBSFL who has a pre-existing condition has no other option. The choice is
BCBSFL or no health insurance. That is not a choice.

KAREN NORTON

North Palm Beach

What has biotech done for Florida?

The Post has published recent stories about high-paying biotech jobs and the tax
money Florida spent to attract the business. Since my tax dollars were used, I
wonder what the benefits to Florida residents were. How many Florida citizens
were hired to fill the technical positions? With our crumbling education system,
how many scientists will bring their families here to live? Since we cannot seem
to train new scientists, how long will these companies expand in Florida?

I believe the expenditure was all for show. "Look, Florida has biotech companies
so we are really mainstream." Looks good in brochures.

LEON MANDELL

Hobe Sound

Obama wrong to act alone on illegals

What gives President Obama the right of a dictator and the ability to get away
with it? I can't believe that in the United States of America, our president
wakes up one morning and decides to give illegal people living in and off of our
country the right to stay and apply for a work permit without Congress knowing
anything about it.

RONALD PIRETTI

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  READERS RESPOND:  SUPREME court immigration rulingOpinion: The Debate
Starts   HereWHAT DO YOU THINK?  TALK BACK!Is it ethical for government spouses
to   tag along at conventions?  pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this
code   with your smartphone.PB  TIM BURKE, Executive Editor and Publisher The
Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing and must
include the writer's name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred length is
a maximum of 200 words. JOIN THE DEBATE RANDY SCHULTZ, Editor of the Editorial
Page Email: schultz@pbpost.com Phone: (561) 820-4447THE PALM BEACH POST
EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION: The news you need, the analysis you appreciate, the
viewpoints you value. For billing, delivery and subscriptions: (561) 820-4663THE
CARTOON VIEWYOUR VIEWS LETTERS@PBPOST.COM

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Choose: Wrong or passive ;
 Four more years without any progress on this issue?

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 543 words


If Mitt Romney were president, he says, more than 10 million illegal immigrants
living in the shadows would stay there. Children brought here illegally before
they could walk or talk would have no hope of working here legally without
joining the military. More resources would be directed toward guarding the
U.S.-Mexico border, but little would be done to increase legal entry for the
low-wage workers major industries like agriculture rely on.

If President Obama were re-elected, he says, he would push for more sensible and
comprehensive immigration reform. He would call for changes to federal law that
allow a path to citizenship for millions of productive but undocumented American
workers, and a chance for children raised here illegally to one day be
full-fledged Americans.

But because he has done so little to advance that goal, his vow has little
credibility. As a Univision anchorman told him during a televised interview
Thursday: "You did not keep your promise." Americans hoping for a broader
solution are left waiting for change.

In an address to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce this week, what little
Mr. Romney did say about immigration was a reminder of his short-sighted vision
for resolving the country's complex immigration dilemma. Overly focused on
rallying cries like "no amnesty" and "rule of law," Mr. Romney continues to
advocate proposals that are uncharitable and unsuited to the scope of the
problem.

Foremost is Mr. Romney's refusal to consider any path toward legal residency for
millions of illegal immigrants living here. He ignores the fact that millions
have been here for decades or were brought as young children and raised in the
U.S. They may not remember the countries where they were born or even speak
their native language well enough to get by, but Mr. Romney would have them
return there if they want to ever work or reside legally.

Mr. Romney famously announced his support for "self-deportation" during the
primary, but that notion is naive. A report this year suggested that more
Mexicans may be leaving the U.S. now than entering, but that amounts to a small
fraction of the illegal immigrant population. One way or another, most will
stay. Making their lives and those of their children more difficult is not
logical or humane.

Neither is Mr. Romney's stubborn opposition to allowing illegal immigrants
brought to the U.S. as children to become legal residents after attending
college. A proposal to do so for college students and members of the military
has failed in Congress. Cynically, Mr. Romney now says he supports the so-called
DREAM Act for members of the military but not for college students.

Mr. Romney calls for more work visas for high-skilled immigrants and temporary
visas for low-skilled workers. These sensible policies have wide bipartisan
support, but they do nothing to address the issue at the heart of the nation's
immigration crisis: What to do with the millions who are here and don't intend
to leave.

So voters who want this issue resolved -- and polls show that it's a majority of
the country -- have an unenviable choice: a candidate whose immigration plan is
wrong-headed and another whose plan makes sense but whose commitment is suspect.

Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Opinion: The Debate Starts HereOUR VIEWS  IMMIGRATION REFORM

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let undocumented immigrants live their dream, activists urge ;
 'It's unfair to deport these kids,' says a U.S. citizen who was born in Haiti.

BYLINE: By WILLIE HOWARD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Chanting "take advantage of their knowledge, let the people go to college," a
dozen young men and women waved signs and American flags at cars traveling by
city hall on Wednesday to support the Dream Act.

The proposed federal legislation would allow some undocumented immigrants to
earn legal status by attending college for two years or serving in the military.
Supporters also hope it would let them pay in-state tuition, like other Florida
residents.

Mily Chapado, 18, said she has lived in Lake Worth with her parents for 10
years. Because she is undocumented, Chapado says she pays a far higher
out-of-state tuition for political science and journalism classes at Palm Beach
State College.

"My parents have been paying taxes all this time," she said. "Why wouldn't I be
able to go to school like a regular student?"

The rally, organized by Students Working for Equal Rights, was one of dozens
planned across the country Wednesday.

The legislation would apply to undocumented immigrants age 35 or younger who
were brought to the United States before age 16 and have completed high school.

Betty Jean-Charles, a U.S. citizen who was born in Haiti, came to show support
because many of her relatives have been deported.

"It's unfair to deport these kids who go back to a country they don't know
anything about," she said.

In a separate rally outside the Armed Forces Reserve center in suburban West
Palm Beach, two men who are undocumented immigrants met with reporters to
underscore the fact that they cannot serve in the military.

One man, Nelson Oliveira, 23, was brought to Fort Lauderdale from Brazil when he
was 1 year old.

Oliveira said he attended middle school in Boca Raton, graduated from Spanish
River High and works as a barber.

He would like to join the Marines but can't because he's not a U.S. citizen.

"What better way to give back to the only country I know?" he said. "This
country gave so much to my family. Why not give back?"

~ willie_howard@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DREAM ACT LIVES ON ;
 The House passes the bill, but its prospects are less certain in the Senate.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 722 words


After an emotional debate, the House on Wednesday passed the Dream Act, which
would give certain undocumented immigrants a chance at legal residence in the
U.S., including tens of thousands in Florida.

The vote was 216-198, with only eight Republicans voting in favor. The Senate,
which also debated the issue Wednesday, is expected to vote on a similar version
of the bill today.

Its prospects there appear less certain.

"I'm very excited we got it through the House," said Manuel Guerra, 26, of
Indiantown, a native of Mexico who would qualify under the bill. "When the vote
was announced, I yelled, 'We did it!' But I'm still worried about the Senate."

The measure would allow certain undocumented immigrants under age 30 to qualify
for conditional legal status if they complete two years of college or military
service.

To be eligible, immigrants must have been brought to the U.S. before age 16,
have been here at least five years and have finished high school here. They also
must have avoided any serious run-ins with the law.

Supporters say the people covered under the law have worked hard as students but
have been stymied in leading productive lives because of their undocumented
status. Military leaders back the bill because it would increase the number of
possible recruits. Many leaders in higher education also support it.

Guerra, who had high school ROTC training, said he wants to be a military
chaplain. He has been sending Twitter messages to Sen. George LeMieux, R-Fla.,
who has opposed the bill.

"I'm sending him photos of me in my ROTC uniform, too, telling him I just want
to serve," Guerra said.

Ben Gaspar, 24, a native of Guatemala now living in Stuart, also was excited by
the vote.

"Wow," he said. "This shows progress, but the challenge is now in the Senate."

The bill -- officially named the Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors Act -- would cover about 2 million people, though supporters say only
about 825,000 would eventually fulfill the military or education requirements.

Opponents in Congress have criticized the bill as a form of amnesty for
undocumented immigrants. They say that even though the bill covers people
already in the U.S., its passage would encourage other families to come here
illegally to benefit from the possibility of a similar bill.

Critics say the measure fails to do anything to tighten border security. They
also have expressed fears that once the "Dreamers" become citizens, they would
petition for millions of other family members. Supporters say it would take at
least two decades before that could happen.

Many Democrats pleaded for passage of the bill Wednesday, saying the potential
beneficiaries had done nothing wrong but were simply children who had come to
the U.S. with their parents.

"Have some compassion," said Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., after speaking about his
immigrant ancestors. "Some of these kids, they don't even speak the language of
the country they came from."

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, answered.

"Yes, we should have compassion, but for American workers," he said. "Americans
should not have to compete with illegals for scarce jobs. The so-called Dream
Act is a nightmare for the American people."

In the Senate, Richard Durbin, D-Ill., led the fight for the bill.

"These are children who have been raised in the U.S.," he said. "But they are
undocumented, they have no country, they have no place to go. Give these young
people a chance."

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., led the opposition.

"The public wants us to end the lawlessness at the border and this bill
surrenders to it," he said.

Sessions also referred to a study of the bill delivered Wednesday by the
Congressional Budget Office, which said the bill would reduce the deficit by
$1.4 billion and bring $2.3 billion in extra revenue in the first 10 years.

Sessions said the CBO apparently had decided that most beneficiaries would be
able to find jobs.

"But there is no surplus of jobs," Sessions said, thus putting the CBO figures
in doubt.

Most Democrats saw the future of beneficiaries differently, and so did a handful
of Republicans, including South Florida's three Cuban-American lawmakers:
Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.

"These young people are motivated and only want a chance to give back to this
country, their country," Ros-Lehtinen said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Local activists rally  Supporters of the Dream Act gather at Lake Worth
City Hall to urge congressional approval.Local,2B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Guest-workerlimitsface lengthy delay ;
 Restricting foreign hires could hurt industries,many in Congress fear.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 903 words


Amendments to bills working their way through Congress would delay for at least
a year new guest-worker regulations that would make it harder for U.S. employers
to import foreign labor.

The Labor Department wrote the new rules to require any employer soliciting H-2B
visas, used to import low-skilled foreign workers, to first increase attempts to
recruit U.S. workers. The new rules also would require employers who import
laborers to pay them at industry standards, so as not to depress wages for U.S.
workers in those fields.

The delays are winning crucial support from both Republicans and Democrats
seeking to protect industries in their home states, and that could signal doom
for the new rules.

In Palm Beach County, country clubs and resorts import the most H-2B workers,
around 1,500 per year. Other Florida industries that employ H-2B's are
landscaping and construction. The new rules were to go into effect this year,
but the delays would give employers a reprieve.

Critics of the existing system say employers are importing workers despite the
high unemployment rate in the U.S., especially among minorities. They also say
that in some cases foreign workers are under paid and overworked.

In June, the Senate Appropriations Committee, considering a spending bill,
approved an amendment written by Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., that would delay
the new rules by a year. The vote was 19-11 with five members of the Democratic
majority joining the 14 GOP members. The amendment is expected to pass in the
full Senate.

The House Appropriations Committee, controlled by Republicans, is expected to
follow suit soon.

Florida has no members on the Senate committee. Among the Senate Democrats most
vocally opposed to the new, more-demanding rules were Sens. Barbara Mikulski of
Maryland and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. Like Shelby, their states are home to
seafood-processing companies that import many Mexican and Central American
workers.

Landrieu said she was voting to protect family-owned businesses in her state.
"During the last few months, I've tried again and again to work through my
concerns with the Department of Labor to no avail, which is why I voted to block
both sets of rules," Landrieu said.

Mikulski also made it clear she was protecting her state's crab industry.

"I am a reformer. I believe that in the United States of America, we must have
fair wages for all workers," Mikulski said. "But a one-size-fits-all approach on
new regulations won't work for Maryland's seafood industry, which is critical
for our jobs and for our way of life."

But attorney Greg Schell of Lake Worth, who represents Florida Legal Services,
which supports the stricter rules, said he was not happy with the move to stall
the rules. The changes would protect the foreign workers Schell represents from
employers who overwork them and underpay them.

He said the fact that Democrats, protecting specific employers in their states,
had joined with Republican senators to create the solid victory made it unlikely
that the new rules would be adopted any time soon. "We can't see that this
attitude in Congress is going to change," he said.

Mary Bauer, legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which is based in
Birmingham, Ala., but with offices in South Florida, also opposes the
amendments.

"Any lawmaker who supports this amendment is supporting less access to jobs for
U.S. workers and encouraging the exploitation of the foreign workers filling
those positions," Bauer said.

Daniel Costa of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, considered an
expert on the H-2B issue, is another opponent of the amendments.

"All of the data I've looked at suggest that employers have been using the
current H-2B rules as a way to degrade the wages of U.S. workers in major
industries such as landscaping, forestry, construction, seafood processing and
hospitality," he said. "Our data say that there really aren't labor shortages in
those industries."

For example, Costa said, in 2011, 30,000 H-2B visas were approved for
landscaping workers, but Americans who listed themselves as landscaping workers
had an unemployment rate of 17.6 percent. "There are lots of U.S. workers
available," he said.

In addition to the action in Congress, a U.S. District Court in Pensacola has
also blocked the new rules, although that ruling is now being appealed to the
11th District Court of Appeals in Atlanta.

What the congressional action means for Palm Beach County in the long run is
unclear.

Last year, The Palm Beach Post published a series of articles about the
importation of foreign workers at the same time that the county unemployment
rate topped 9 percent. In December, county Commissioner Burt Aaronson formed a
task force of local hospitality industry leaders, educators and state job
creation officials that pledged to eliminate all H-2B workers in the country
club and hotel industry in the county in four years.

But Aaronson will be off the commission after this year because of term limits.

"Aaronson took an interest. That was why the issue was addressed here in the
county," Schell said. "But what will happen after Aaronson is gone? Who will
champion the cause?"

But Aaronson said Thursday that he plans to remain active on the task force even
after he leaves office.

"I started this and I'm not giving up on this," he said. "I'm going to keep on
working with club managers. I'll go to Washington if I have to."

jlantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

County's top foreign-born group? Haitians ;
 Census figures show 38,500 living here, but a church survey estimates73,000.

BYLINE: By ADAM PLAYFORD Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 507 words


Flocking to Palm Beach County over the past decade, immigrants from Haiti now
represent the largest concentration of foreign-born people living here by far,
according to data recently released by the Census Bureau.

And "it's going to continue," said Wismick St. Jean, a Haitian activist and
business owner. "There's no doubt about that."

The number of Haitians, pegged at nearly 27,800 in 2000, had grown by a third to
about 38,500 by the second half of the decade, according to surveys collected
from 2005 to 2009 as part of the American Communities Survey.

That's far more than the next-largest group, Cubans, at 23,476 and Mexicans at
21,500. Haitians also were the top immigrant group in 2000, but by a smaller
margin.

St. Jean said he hopes the new figures will push government agencies to work
more closely with the Haitian community and to produce more documents in Creole.

Many Haitians pick Palm Beach County because it offers an existing Haitian
community, affordable housing and an amenable job market, with opportunities for
people with different levels of education, said Quetel Osterval, executive
director of the Haitian Evangelical Crusade Association.

"Miami's already well-known to be saturated, so they kind of moved to the north
a little bit and found a safe haven for them to make a living," said Osterval,
who came here from Haiti when he was young.

The actual number of Haitians is almost certainly larger than what the survey
indicates, as the count stopped before Haiti was devastated by an earthquake at
the start of 2010. The disaster brought an untold number of Haitians to the U.S.
And many are leery of filling out government surveys, particularly Haitians here
illegally, community leaders say.

One recent count by local Haitian church groups showed more than 73,000 Haitian
immigrants in Palm Beach County, Osterval said.

The American Communities Survey, dubbed the ACS, has weaknesses. It doesn't
offer the decennial census' precision; the 38,500 number, for example, is plus
or minus about 2,200. But it is released more frequently and the traditional
census is no longer asking in-depth questions, such as where immigrants were
born, so the ACS is now the best official picture of Palm Beach County's
demography.

The biggest concentration of Haitians -- more than 16,000 -- live in the Boynton
Beach-Delray Beach area, the survey found. Another 8,000 live in or near Lake
Worth.

Bishop Mathieu Jean-Baptiste, who founded the crusade association 24 years ago
and works with many Haitian churches, said some of the growth is attributable to
Haitians who immigrated years ago finally bringing family over.

Like Osterval and St. Jean, Jean-Baptiste predicts that the Haitian community
will continue to grow.

"This is not people who come here to make a few dollars and go home," he said.
"They're here, they're starting families, they become business owners,
schoolteachers. In every aspect of life in Palm Beach County, you can find the
Haitian people. They really make a difference in the county."

~ adam_playford@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 3, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. CITIZENSHIP FOR SALE?;
Jupiter project lures investor with promises of citizenship;
Federal financing program draws praise and critics . The process is faster for
top foreign investors in Jupiter and elsewhere.

BYLINE: By BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


The developer of Jupiter's waterfront Harbourside project has found a way to
gain desperately needed cash: a federal program that lets foreign nationals gain
U.S. citizenship in about two years in exchange for their $500,000 investment.

Developer Nick Mastroianni says that because American banks are not lending
money, he has to go to China and South Korea to finance the $150 million
hotel/marina project. And that's where the federal EB-5 financing program comes
in.

The program allows foreigners, their spouses and children younger than 21 to
gain U.S. citizenship by investing money in projects in the United States. Each
investment must create 10 direct or indirect jobs in two years.

"China is economically strong. We are weak. I go there because the investment
money here has dried up," said Mastroianni, 47, an Abacoa resident.

But not everyone thinks EB-5 is such a good idea.

Linda Sartori, who lives near the prospective development, said it's unfair to
let affluent foreigners cut to the front of the citizenship line.

"Under EB-5, my grandparents would not have made it here," said Sartori, whose
grandparents were Italian immigrants. "We shouldn't let money determine if you
can come to America."

She also noted that the U.S. Senate recently rejected the Dream Act, which would
have allowed some illegal immigrants to earn conditional permanent residency by
completing two years in the military or two years of college.

Mastroianni won approval in September from the Department of Homeland Security
to develop Harbourside as an EB-5 regional center. The program was started in
1992, after the 1990-91 recession, to lure foreign investment and create jobs.

Florida has 16 EB-5 approved projects, in various phases of development. Of
those, two have been approved to operate solely in Palm Beach County. The rest
have been approved for specific metropolitan areas within the state.

Florida's EB-5 projects include a restaurant/retail center in Sarasota, health
care and cruise line operations in the Panhandle and construction and
manufacturing firms in Miami.

There are about 120 approved EB-5 projects in 35 states, including the Jay Peak
Ski Resort in Vermont, scientific research centers in Los Angeles and dairy
farms in Iowa.

About 180 more developers have applied and are undergoing the required checks by
Homeland Security, said Luz Riazaba, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

"We look carefully at the viability of job creation. We don't want people to
lose their big investment," Riazaba said.

With immigration laws tighter and banks lending less money, EB-5 applications by
foreign investors have ballooned from about 1,400 in 2008 to about 4,200 in
2009. Since 1992, about 3,100 foreigners have been granted permanent citizenship
using EB-5.

About $1.2 billion has been pumped into the economy by foreigners hoping to be
citizens since 2000, according to Citizenship and Immigration Services figures.

Citizenship seekers undergo background checks, which take about six months after
they deposit $500,000 into an escrow account. Criminal, financial and character
checks are performed.

Federal figures for 2010 show that 165 people were rejected out of the 1,995 who
applied.

Supporters say Harbourside will be a "Mizner Park on the water," akin to the
commercial hub in Boca Raton.

EB-5 will allow the project to create as many as 2,000 jobs -- 800 full-time
positions and other part-time jobs in areas such as food services, they say.

Despite background checks, Sartori said she fears that dangerous people could
use the program to become citizens.

But Riazaba of Citizenship and Immigration Services defended the program.

"Any person who has ever been arrested, cited, charged, convicted or detained by
a law enforcement officer must provide certified copies of the arrest report,
court disposition, sentencing and any other relevant documents," Riazaba said
via e-mail. "A USCIS officer will review the court documents and make a
determination of eligibility."

EB-5 developers pay immigration brokers in China, South Korea and Venezuela to
find prospective investors. The developers pay a finder's fee of between $10,000
and $30,000 when an investor agrees to pay the $500,000 to be an equity owner in
the business, said Karen Mentor, a Hobe Sound immigration lawyer.

"The investors are taking a huge risk. They must do due diligence to make sure
those jobs will be created," Mentor said.

The investors must make sure their $500,000 stays in the escrow account until
they receive their conditional green card. Once the investor receives the
conditional green card, the developer can spend the investment.

"There has been fraud," said Grant Kaplan, an immigration attorney from Boca
Raton, saying that in some cases developers have taken the foreigners' money and
then vanished. "But overall, EB-5 has been a reliable method for foreigners to
win citizenship."

~bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

EB-5 visa program

Step 1:The U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services does a criminal
and financial background check on applicants that takes about six months.
Applicants place$500,000 in an escrow account. The developer agrees to create 10
jobs with each investment.

Step 2:If applicants pass a background check, they can live in the U.S. with a
conditional green card for two years. Their investment money can be used by the
developer. The applicants cannot vote, and the card can be revoked.

Step 3: If after two years the 10 jobs have been created, the applicants can
apply for permanent U.S. citizenship. If the jobs are not created, the
applicants losethe investment. The temporary green card is revoked.

Source: U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla. groups fight effort to deport Haitians ;
 Activists cite perils such as cholera, political violence and quake
devastation.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 773 words


Florida immigration activists are asking the Obama administration to stop
planned deportations to Haiti, citing the festering cholera epidemic there,
other lingering dangers from last year's massive earthquake and recent political
violence.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced in December that it would
resume deportations this month to Haiti that were halted after the Jan. 12
quake.

The first individuals scheduled to be deported are Haitians who had been
incarcerated for crimes in the United States, were released and benefited
temporarily from the moratorium on repatriations after the quake.

According to the activists, about 100 such Haitians -- many from South Florida
-- have been picked up by immigration authorities and transferred to a holding
facility in Louisiana before being shipped back.

ICE officials say that, according to law, the federal government cannot detain
such individuals for any significant time beyond their sentences. ICE then
either must remove them from the country or release them back into the U.S.
population, despite histories of serious crime.

The activists, however, say no Haitians should be sent back to their native
country right now, given the post-earthquake devastation and the political
upheaval that has followed recent disputed presidential elections.

"We ask President Obama to hold off on removing Haitian nationals from this
country in light of the horrific conditions now facing our neighboring nation,"
said Howard Simon, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Florida.

"It is within his power to show leadership and prevent a civil liberties and
human rights disaster."

The cholera epidemic poses real dangers to criminal deportees, according to the
activists.

Cholera struck Haiti last summer, and by Dec. 15 more than 2,400 deaths had been
recorded. At least 48 of those deaths occurred in Haiti's prisons, where cholera
was first diagnosed in November.

"It is against Haitian law, but the deportees usually spend about two weeks
locked up," said Michelle Karshan, executive director of Alternative Chance, a
nonprofit organization that works with former inmates. "And if they don't have
family members to claim them, they are detained indefinitely."

Karshan said cholera works fast in Haitian prisons and jails, where there is no
clean water or food; inmates share squalid, unsanitary conditions; and there is
often little or no medical care.

"You get dehydrated quickly, and without the proper medical care you can die in
two to three hours from cholera," she said.

Steve Forester, Miami-based spokesman for the Institute for Justice & Democracy
in Haiti, decried the pending repatriations.

"What they are doing is sending people to police station holding cells and
prisons where cholera has already claimed at least 48 lives, where clean
drinking water is not given or available and people can die from cholera in a
day," Forester said.

Newly elected U.S. Rep. Frederica Wilson, D-Miami, whose district includes
Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood, also opposes the policy.

"I am keenly aware of the devastation and the impact the present situation has
on the constituents in my district and on their families in Haiti," Wilson said.
"My congressional district includes the largest Haitian population in America,
so I am faced with the misery and the suffering on a daily basis."

ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez said the flights repatriating Haitians are
expected to start in mid-January, adding that resuming the deportations is
"consistent with our domestic immigration enforcement priorities."

ICE officials say in 2011 they expect to send back to Haiti about 700 criminal
aliens who have been convicted of homicide, kidnapping, sexual assault,
aggravated assault, burglary, larceny, embezzlement, money laundering and
extortion.

As for the health dangers posed to those being sent back, Gonzalez said ICE is
mindful of the issue. "The Department of State has been working with the
government of Haiti to ensure that the resumption of removals is conducted in a
safe, humane manner with minimal disruption to ongoing rebuilding efforts," she
said.

The activists said that despite the serious convictions, the would-be deportees
have stayed out of trouble since being released from prison. They said they
would continue to pressure the Obama administration to change the policy before
the repatriations begin.

On Thursday, six groups filed an emergency petition with the Inter-American
Commission on Human Rights to halt the deportations.

They include the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center of Miami and the University
of Miami School of Law.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  After the quake  Get full coverage from Haiti:Stories, photos, videos,
more. PalmBeachPost.com/go/Haiti

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Accept investors and soldiers ;
 Jupiter trolls for potential Chinese developers.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 535 words


Many immigrants willing to put their lives on the line by joining the military
can't get an immigration break from the United States. But for rich foreigners
who put their cash on the barrel head, the welcome mat is out.

Jupiter is one city prominently welcoming such foreigners -- or at least their
money. The town's finance director, Michael Villella, is in China with
Harbourside developer Nick Mastroianni to monitor the search for foreign
investors willing to put up at least $500,000 in exchange for a green card for
themselves and family members.

Town Manager Andy Lukasik said in an interview that trolling for Chinese
investors -- rather than relying on more traditional financing methods -- is not
a sign that Harbourside is in trouble or an inferior project. "It is very
difficult to get capital these days," he said. Offering visas to foreign
investors "is a program that has a track record."

Foreign investors hoping to take part in the federal EB-5 program undergo
background checks from the Department of Homeland Security. They must put the
money in escrow up front, and before they become eligible for permanent
residency the projects in which they invest must actually create 10 American
jobs within two years. Harbourside is projected to create 800 full-time jobs and
up to 1,200 other jobs.

The investors don't have to follow their money geographically. In other words,
although Harbourside is seeking about 160 foreign investors to put up a total of
$80 million, those investors probably wouldn't be moving to Jupiter.

Mr. Lukasik said the town council didn't debate the fairness of EB-5. That's an
issue for Congress. The town's issue, he said, is getting Harbourside going. The
proposed $150 million development on the northwest side of U.S. 1 and Indiantown
Road will have hotels, parking garages, a marina, restaurants, retail and office
space.

Harbourside, Mr. Lukasik said, "is a bit of a key for the Riverwalk corridor and
Inlet Village," two nearby redevelopment projects. He said the finance director
is in China to show that Jupiter supports the project. But, Mr. Lukasik
emphasized, the town isn't financially guaranteeing Harbourside's success. The
town, not the developer, is paying the roughly $3,000 for Mr. Villella's trip,
which Mr. Lukasik said will help to raise Jupiter's profile among potential
investors besides those interested in Harbourside.

Mr. Lukasik said that at its halfway point the current trip to China has "a
number of investors already in the queue." It's fine for the Harbourside
developer to use the EB-5 program, which overall attracted about 2,000
applicants last year. And Mr. Lukasik is right that immigration fairness isn't
the town's concern. But we must note that Congress last month rejected the
Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (Dream) Act.

The Dream Act would have provided a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants
who came here as children with their parents, have no criminal record and join
the military or complete some college. Those qualities seem at least as
deserving as EB-5, which might be given the alternate name, Bring Rich
Immigrants Before Everyone Act.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  BUYING CITIZENSHIP?

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill may be tempered ;
 Stuart lawmaker who drafted it mulls tweak to allay profiling fears.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Concern about scaring tourists and potential high-tech workers away from the
Sunshine State is threatening passage of the Arizona-style immigration measure
backed by Gov. Rick Scott.

Even the proposal's chief proponent in the state House, Rep. William Snyder,
R-Stuart, is considering watering down his legislation to appease critics
concerned about racial profiling, Snyder said Tuesday.

Snyder said he may tweak the part of his bill, also in Arizona's law, that would
allow state, county and local law enforcement officers to question the
immigration status of anyone during a "lawful stop."

Instead, law enforcement officers would be able to use such questioning only
during a criminal investigation.

That would alleviate concerns about potential racial profiling during traffic
stops, Snyder said.

He called potential changes to his bill, still in draft form, a "modification"
rather than a change in direction.

"This is a course adjustment. But we're still heading north," said Snyder.

In his third term in the Florida House, Snyder will not seek reelection to that
post, but on Tuesday formally entered the race to replace Martin County Sheriff
Bob Crowder. Snyder, who started his career as a Metro-Dade police officer at
age 20, spent more than three decades as a law enforcement officer.

GOP leaders in the Senate are already backing away from an Arizona-style law,
even as they hold hearings on the immigration issue, indicating that the GOP's
dominance of the House, Senate and governor's mansion may not be enough to
secure a similar bill's success this spring.

Florida Senate President Mike Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, said last week that
he wants to take a deliberative approach to crafting the immigration
legislation. Haridopolos put Sen. Anitere Flores, a Miami lawyer of Cuban
descent, in charge of three meetings on the issue.

Even so, Snyder, who held a heated town hall meeting on his draft bill in Palm
City, remained adamant about giving law enforcement more tools to combat illegal
immigration.

"I am not contemplating moving away from what I think are the necessary
components of the bill. That would be a law enforcement component and employment
verification component. That's where I've been from day one," said Snyder.

Many law enforcement organizations, including Arizona's Association of Chiefs of
Police, say the law and similar efforts divert scant resources to immigration
enforcement and have a negative effect on relationships between police officers
and the residents they serve.

Representatives of the immigrant community have formed a new coalition called
"Florida Voices for Immigration Reform" and are meeting with Snyder today to go
over his bill.

Coalition member Aileen Josephs, a West Palm Beach immigration lawyer, said
Snyder's bill, even with the proposed change, is unconstitutional.

It excludes Canadians from having to provide immigration documentation, although
residents of that country do not have special visitation privileges, Josephs
said.

"Why is there a rush to file this? The U.S. Department of Justice is suing
Arizona on this law. Why can't we wait and see what happens? Why does he have to
open the floodgate for litigation? What is the rush?" Josephs said.

Others object that it would be too easy for a person to lodge complaints against
someone he suspected is an illegal immigrant in order to initiate a criminal
investigation.

"To not have a driver's license could be considered a crime. ... I don't feel
comfortable with it at all," said Isabel Vinent, deputy director of the Florida
Immigrant Coalition.

"Lawmakers should be focusing on the issues that are hurting our state: the
economic crisis, the lack of jobs, the foreclosures. They should be presenting
solutions to these structural problems and not scapegoating immigrants," said
Vinent, who also serves on the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrant Rights.

Snyder's potential removal of the bill's most controversial components is "a
step in the right direction," but does not go far enough to ease the potentially
chilling effect such a law could have on the state's tourism industry and Latin
American visitors, said Jose Gonzalez, a lobbyist for the business-backed
Associated Industries of Florida.

Gonzalez said concern about the bill is already making it difficult for some
businesses to hire international employees worried they may be the target of a
police investigation for looking Hispanic.

"I think it still raises the question of what the repercussions any type of
change in law is going to have on the reputation of our state and its business
climate," Gonzalez said.

~dara_kam@palmbeachpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  More on the issue  Get more recent coverage at
PalmBeachPost.com/go/immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Leaders must set a new tone for civility in America

BYLINE: Abraham H. Foxman

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 685 words


By ABRAHAM H. FOXMAN

It was an ugly political season. Polarizing debates over health care and
immigration were followed by an election filled with divisiveness, invective and
outrageous comparisons to the Nazis and the Holocaust.

And yet we held out hope that once the new Congress got back to business in
Washington, the divisive rhetoric would be dialed down. Then came the shooting
in Tucson, Ariz., and the immediate aftermath of the tragedy was characterized
by more finger-pointing and partisanship. Instead of a nation rallying together,
we had the same old divisions coming out at the worst possible time. Some
Republicans accused Democrats of exploiting the tragedy to grandstand. Some
Democrats pointed to Republican rhetoric, like that from Sarah Palin, claiming
that it had created an environment for such a tragedy to happen.

We need to reassess our ideas about what it means to be politically passionate
in America.

The coarsening of the political debate serves only partisan politics, not the
greater good. It hampers bipartisan policy progress. It makes unrestrained
political rage a popular form of entertainment. One need only listen to the
rants on talk radio to hear evidence of this coarsening on important issues such
as immigration reform, health care and the national debt.

In late 2008, a confluence of events -- the election of an African-American
president, an increasingly xenophobic anti-immigrant campaign and a financial
crisis -- caused an undercurrent of rage to spread across the American
landscape, slowly seeping from the fringes into the mainstream. The growing lack
of civility in American public life seemed to be driving an ever deeper wedge
into our society and between the political far right and far left.

In recent years, the Anti-Defamation League repeatedly has warned about the
coarsening of the political debate and its broader impact on society. There is
no doubt that inflammatory rhetoric can be dangerous. We need only look back to
the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing and other incidents of homegrown terrorism to see
where virulently anti-government sentiments and conspiracy theories can lead.
Today, anti-government groups and movements continue to feed this toxic
environment. Anti-government militias, sovereign citizen groups and others are
taking advantage of popular distrust of government and the economic downturn to
spread fear and conspiracy theories.

Look at the persistence of the myths that the Obama administration was planning
to outlaw all gun ownership, or that the president was a Muslim who was not born
in this country. These were not conspiracy theories that appealed to a few on
the fringe; millions of Americans accepted them as truth.

Changing the political environment must begin with strong leadership. In the
aftermath of Tucson, there is hope that a new tone is emerging from our nation's
capital. We have begun to see the glimmer of a new, bipartisan approach from our
congressional leaders.

In his speech at the victims' memorial in Tucson, President Obama eloquently
observed that this is an appropriate time to look inward and to "expand our
moral imaginations." He called on Americans "to listen to each other more
carefully, to sharpen our instincts for empathy and remind ourselves of all the
ways that our hopes and dreams are bound together."

The president got it right. And he was joined in those sentiments from leaders
across the aisle, including his presidential campaign opponent, Sen. John
McCain, who wrote that "...there are too many occasions when we lack that
empathy and mutual respect on all sides of our politics, and in the media. But
it is not beyond us to do better; to behave more modestly and courteously and
respectfully toward one another; to treat one another as we would wish to be
treated."

The best way we can honor the victims in Tucson is by pushing the reset button
and changing the tone of our nation's political and public discourse.

Abraham H. Foxman is national director of the Anti-Defamation League and the
author of "Jews & Money: The Story of a Stereotype." He wrote this article for
The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC  POLITICAL RHETORIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration activist flies to Fla. to face threat case ;
 An e-mail was aimed at Rep. Snyder over his crackdown proposal.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 415 words


A 47-year-old University of Massachusetts sociology student accused of
threatening the life of state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, because of Snyder's
Arizona-style immigration bill was arrested by Martin County sheriff's deputies
Wednesday at Southwest Florida International Airport in Fort Myers.

Manuel Pintado was arrested in Massachusetts on Jan. 31, then released on his
own recognizance by a Massachusetts judge on Monday with orders to fly to
Florida to face charges. The Martin County Sheriff's Office said two deputies
took Pintado into custody at the Fort Myers airport.

Charged with corruption by threat and written threat to kill or do bodily
injury, Pintado was held Wednesday in the Martin County Jail on a $450,000 bond
and is scheduled to appear before a judge today. On Jan. 8 -- shortly after the
assassination attempt on U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz., in which six
others were killed -- Snyder received an unsigned e-mail that said: "You better
just stop that ridiculous law if you value you rand your familie's lives
(expletive)."

Snyder has proposed a law cracking down on illegal immigration in Florida
similar to a controversial measure in Arizona.

Martin sheriff's detectives determined the e-mail was sent by Pintado from a
Starbucks near his home in Northampton, Mass. A sheriff's report said
Northampton police interviewed Pintado and he admitted sending the e-mail. The
report said Pintado described himself as a "political activist" who believed
Snyder was trying to abolish the 14th Amendment, which states that all persons
born in the U.S. are citizens.

The report said Pintado told the Northampton police he didn't intend to harm
Snyder, but was "glad the e-mail made him nervous."

An article on Pintado this week in the University of Massachusetts Daily
Collegian says friends and relatives describe Pintado as "an amiable pacifist
with a passion for immigrants' rights and state support of public higher
education, though they said he suffers from anxiety and could sometimes become
swept up in his own dedication and act excitedly."

The article quotes Pintado's son-in-law as saying Pintado did something dumb,
"right up there with all the teenagers who call in fake bomb threats to their
junior high schools and people like Sharron Angle who call for citizens to
exercise their Second Amendment rights, or Sarah Palin or people who show up to
political rallies with nooses and shotguns, but he is not a killer, not even
close."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATEMore online  Get the latest news and insights on state, local
politics. PostOnPolitics.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Think Utah, not Arizona

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 500 words


Gov. Scott's State of the State speech Tuesday hit all the expected notes --
except one. He talked about budget cuts, tax cuts and job creation. But he was
silent on immigration, the issue he exploited to defeat Bill McCollum in last
fall's GOP primary.

Back then, Gov. Scott embraced an Arizona-style immigration bill, and his ads
played -- over and over -- a clip of Mr. McCollum saying that would be the wrong
approach for Florida. Mr. McCollum flip-flopped, appearing at one point with
Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, who touted Arizona's approach. The move didn't
save Mr. McCollum. But Rep. Snyder followed through with a bill the House
Judiciary Committee, which he chairs, will consider today.

The bill goes through various contortions to avoid racial profiling and to allay
fears of private employers that they would become the fall guys for hiring
illegal immigrants to do the farm work and other manual labor Americans won't.
Gov. Scott did give one nod to immigration when, shortly after taking office, he
ordered state agencies to use the federal E-Verify system to screen job
applicants. Rep. Snyder's bill goes a step further, requiring many private
employers to use E-Verify.

The uproar over Arizona's bill and the one Florida is likely to adopt might have
been productive if it had prodded Congress to enact comprehensive immigration
reform. Lacking that, we get "little picture" reforms, such as the bill U.S.
Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, introduced a week ago. It would force the
Department of Homeland Security to identify and deport immigrants convicted of
serious crimes.

The bill mandates common-sense procedures, such as the sharing of inmates'
fingerprints, to close loopholes that have put deportable felons on the street
after serving their sentences because immigration officials didn't show up to
take them into custody. Immigration lawyer Aileen Josephs said of Rep. Rooney's
bill, "It's good to enforce the law, but we have a broken system ... with 11
million people living in the shadows."

For proof that a Republican-led legislature can lead on the bigger immigration
picture, Ms. Josephs points to Utah, where Republicans have sent the governor
legislation that, in addition to toughening enforcement, also provides
state-authorized guest-worker status for many illegal immigrants with clean
records who have been working in Utah.

Utah's enlightened, business-friendly legislation recognizes that America can't
deport its way out of the immigration problem. Utah's way might be as much an
unconstitutional infringement onto federal turf as Arizona's crackdown -- soon
to be mimicked by Florida -- is alleged to be. But if Gov. Scott wants to return
to the topic that first got him noticed and also prove that states can lead when
Washington stumbles, he and the Legislature should consider Utah's approach.
Like Utah, Florida might find we're better off helping hardworking immigrants
than trying to run them off.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATIONOPINION: THE DEBATE
STARTS   HERE  Should Florida create a guest-worker program like
Utah's?pbpost.com/go/opinionzone

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sense of community fuels El Sol's new leader ;
 For Ed Ricci, immigration issues strike a personal tone.

BYLINE: By BILL DIPAOLO Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


When Ed Ricci sees a worker seeking a job at the El Sol Neighborhood Resource
Center, he thinks of his grandparents.

"They came here from southern Italy. They had hardly any education. They could
not speak English. I want people who come to El Sol to have that same chance,"
said Ricci, a consumer justice attorney who is the new president of the board of
directors at the nonprofit center.

Not everyone agrees. Some blast the center as a magnet for illegal immigration,
noting El Sol officials don't ask a job seeker's immigration status. Employers
who hire workers at El Sol steal jobs from Americans, and those workers drive
down wages, they claim.

"El Sol brings illegal immigrants. They sell drugs. They commit crimes. These
immigrants don't care about this country," said Jupiter resident Robert
McCormick, a longtime El Sol opponent who was one of many who picketed the
center when it first opened six years ago.

Ricci, a Jupiter resident who just turned 65 and is working on his second book,
said national immigration policy will not drive the future of El Sol.

The center has three full-time employees and about 120 volunteers, who do
everything from teach sewing to cook meals. The annual budget, which comes
entirely from private donations, is about $225,000. Ricci will not receive a
salary as El Sol's president.

"El Sol is not about politics. We are about helping all Jupiter residents," said
Ricci, seated in his downtown West Palm Beach office with two posters from the
Hope Rural School in Indiantown.

A slender man who can't let a visitor go without telling a story, he said he
first worked with the school in the late 1970s.

Controversial issues have always been a part of the Brooklyn native's life. As a
consumer attorney, he represented clients in cases against Ford Motor Corp.,
International Harvester and other giant firms. His wife, retired Circuit Judge
Mary Lupo, is a former county prosecutor best known for presiding over the 1991
William Kennedy Smith trial.

"My dad doesn't base his beliefs on which way the wind blows," said Ricci's son
Ed, 31, also an attorney. "I remember all those workers gathering on Center
Street before El Sol opened. The protesters were out there with the signs. My
dad believes what El Sol is doing is right."

Older sister Irene is also an attorney.

Those protesters have vanished as El Sol has transformed itself from an
employment center into a community center. Ricci wants to continue programs such
as classes in English, computers and sewing. There are also health clinics and
job training. Meals are served. Colorful paintings and handmade tapestries by
workers are for sale on the walls. A food pantry offers free packaged food twice
a week.

"Opponents to El Sol are playing on people's fears when they should be playing
on their hopes and aspirations. I'm proud of what Jupiter has done," said Ricci,
who has been on the El Sol board of directors since 2008.

An immediate goal of Ricci's is to fill the void left from the exit of Carelink,
a free medical clinic off Indiantown Road that closed last month. The non-profit
clinic treated about 3,000 patients a year, most of whom had no insurance.

"We are working with Jupiter Medical Center and town officials. These residents
need our help," Ricci said.

Facing mounting complaints about workers gathering on streets, Jupiter bought
the two-story building in 2006 from LifeSong Church for $1.9 million. The town
leases it to El Sol for $1 annually. In November, the council unanimously voted
to extend the lease for three years.

The high-profile location, next to town hall at Military Trail and Indiantown
Road, has been both a help and a curse, said former president Jill Hanson.

"The initial negative publicity hurt. But many volunteers told me the protesters
made them mad. They came in because they wanted to help," said Hanson, an
attorney.

El Sol officials and volunteers will find Ricci a detail-oriented person, said
his son. He recalled how his father keeps every window shade in their Jupiter
home exactly at the same height. As a boy, Ed would wait until his dad left and
move a few shades ever so slightly.

"He noticed as soon as walked in the room. He adjusted every single one. I would
sit on the couch and laugh," Ed said.

~ bill_dipaolo@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bill splits GOP Cuban-American base ;
 A state senator's immigration measure is drawing flak from fellow Hispanics.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An immigration bill recently introduced in the Florida Legislature is doing
something to the Republican Party's Cuban exile base in South Florida that
Democrats have had trouble accomplishing over the years.

It is turning some Cuban-Americans against each other.

Senate Bill 2040 authorizes state law enforcement and corrections officials to
increase cooperation with federal authorities in identifying undocumented
immigrants being held in jails and prisons, which could lead to deportations. It
also requires employers to confirm the legal status of new hires, in part by
using E-Verify, a federal database.

The bill is not as tough as an immigration bill in the House, HB 7089, sponsored
by Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart. Snyder's bill allows all state, county and
local law enforcement personnel on the street to determine the legal status of
any person they investigate for a crime.

Critics of both bills say they would lead to racial profiling and target Latinos
for deportation, and could discourage undocumented immigrants from reporting
crimes or cooperating with police if they witness crimes.

"What we're seeing is states trying to be the most American by being the most
anti-immigrant," said Jorge Avellana, 59, a Cuban-American and executive
director of the Palm Beach County Hispanic Human Resources Council who calls
himself a loyal Republican. "They should leave immigration law to the federal
government."

Opponents of the Snyder bill in particular say it closely resembles an Arizona
law passed last year, which has been blocked by the federal courts on
constitutional grounds. They accuse the legislation's supporters of trying to
appease conservative voters and say the simple discussion of such bills foments
prejudice.

But some Cuban-Americans and other Florida Hispanics are focusing more on the
Senate bill because it is sponsored by one of their own: Sen. Anitere Flores,
R-Kendall, a Cuban-American whose district is majority Hispanic.

"It is painful as a Republican, the party of Abraham Lincoln, to see the party
recommend the violation of civil rights," said attorney Manny Fernandez of
Miami, a member of the national Hispanic organization Somos Republicans (We Are
Republicans). "It is especially painful that Sen. Flores would accept this in
any way. She is betraying her community. If this law passes, she is going to
have a battle on her hands."

He expects one or more opponents of the legislation to run against Flores. "We
may possibly begin a recall drive," he said.

Flores defends her bill by saying it is the lesser of two evils before a
GOP-dominated legislature bent on passing tough immigration laws, driven in part
by demands from tea party members.

"This year, an immigration law is going to pass," Flores said recently on
Spanish-language television. "If I don't do it, someone else will."

In a letter to Somos Republicans, she wrote: "The legislation that I have
proposed neither vilifies immigrants nor denies anyone due process. In fact, it
puts all the onus on employers. As I have said many times, SB 2040 is a work in
progress. Rather than criticize, I invite you to work on making it the best bill
possible."

Avellana said he has a better idea. "I would rather see no bill at all," he said
in response to Flores' statement.

Insurance agent Julian Lago of Palm Beach Gardens, another Cuban-American GOP
activist, said he hadn't studied Flores' legislation. "But saying something is
the lesser of two evils is usually not a very good reason for putting a bill out
there," he said.

The most politically powerful Cuban-American Republicans in South Florida --
U.S. Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart, both of Miami -- have not
spoken out on the current legislation. But during the gubernatorial campaign
last year, Republican Rick Scott, now governor, called for state immigration
legislation and the two were opposed.

"I'm against Florida adopting the Arizona-style law," Ros-Lehtinen said,
"because I would like our law enforcement personnel and wonderful police
officers to be engaged in fighting crime and in making sure to get the right
person behind bars to keep our community safe, rather than spending their time
being immigration agents."

Less conservative Cuban exiles also are joining the push against the legislation
-- and against Flores.

Democracia Ahora (Democracy Now) is a Miami-based political grass-roots
organization headed by Jorge Mursuli, a Cuban-American who once headed the
Florida office of the left-leaning People for the American Way. This week,
Democracia Ahora began co-sponsoring ads attacking Flores on Spanish-language
radio stations.

"Anitere Flores is sponsoring an anti-immigrant, anti-Hispanic bill that will
affect not only undocumented people, but all immigrants or refugees who prefer
to speak Spanish," the ad says. "Any anti-immigrant, anti-Hispanic bill hurts,
but it hurts much more when one of our own sponsors it. Anitere Flores ... has
betrayed all Hispanics in Florida."

Mursuli said he believes the ad is working. Until recently, House Majority
Leader Carlos Lopez Cantera, R-Miami, seemed to be on the fence about the House
bill. But soon after ads with the same wording were aired targeting him, Lopez
Cantera announced that he would vote against the House bill.

While Cubans qualify for legal residence in the U.S. the moment they arrive and
do not face deportation, Mursuli said, most still feel that laws targeting
Hispanics also could affect them through racial profiling.

"Individuals feel this can impact them, their friends, their cousins, sisters,
brothers," he said. "All this is doing is placating anti-immigrant and
anti-Latino sentiment. We need to come together and say, 'No! Not in our state!'
"

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Z Doctors fearlaw's effect ongun queries. 4A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Revived immigration measure has new sponsor, same doubts

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The Senate's immigration bill, seemingly stalled in the committee process, has
been propelled forward by Senate President Mike Haridopolos to the Senate floor.

Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, had pledged that each bill would pass through at
least three committees before being sent to the floor for a vote, but he
reversed himself this week on the contentious immigration measure (SB 2040),
which was heard in a single committee but is now slated to be taken up Monday by
the full Senate.

Haridopolos also took the bill away from its sponsor, Sen. Anitere Flores, this
week and gave it to Sen. J.D. Alexander, R-Lake Wales, after Flores, a
Cuban-American Republican from Miami, refused to go along with the Arizona-style
bill proposed by the House, sponsored by Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart. The
House bill (HB 7089) is ready for a floor vote in its chamber.

Alexander, a citrus farmer and the Senate budget chief, spoke Friday about his
own reservations about the bills meant to help deport illegal immigrants, many
of whom have lived in the state for decades picking fruit and vegetables for his
colleagues.

"I personally believe we need a federal guest program to allow for some sort of
normalization of these folks' status where they can be protected by our laws
without fear of deportation," he said.

Alexander also said he was concerned about the fallout from the federal E-Verify
program to check on potential employees.

"My personal struggle with E-Verify is that many of these folks have been here
for decades for good or for bad," he said.

~ dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Firms key to immigrant victory ;
 A Stuart legislator cites industries' 'enormous' role in his bill's failure.

BYLINE: By DARA KAM Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Immigration was one of the hot-button issues on the Florida campaign trail last
year, contributing in large part to former Attorney General Bill McCollum's loss
to Rick Scott in the GOP primary for governor.

By August, Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, had started crafting a bill for an
Arizona-style law, and he and other legislators spent hours on the issue in town
hall meetings and committee hearings in the weeks leading up to this year's
legislative session.

But the Republican-controlled state legislature failed this year to pass any
immigration bill, just as Congress, whether controlled by Republicans or
Democrats, has failed to do with immigration-related bills offered practically
every year since 2004.

On Tuesday in Texas, President Obama, who was unable to get the Dream Act
through the Senate last year, laid out his desire for broader overhaul.

Although Obama did not mention Florida's attempt at legislation, he began his
speech with observations from his recent commencement address at Miami-Dade
Community College, which he said has immigrant students from more than 180
nations.

Snyder wasn't surprised that Obama looked to Florida, a swing state, in the
immigration speech.

"Undoubtedly the unilateral actions by the state have to weigh on the
president," Snyder said. "He knows that the voters here are very disgruntled and
they've lost confidence in the federal government's ability to stem this tide.
The fact that we got as far as we did with this legislation doesn't go unnoticed
by the president."

What also seems not to have been lost on the president, or on Florida lawmakers,
is the business aspect of the issue.

Obama on Tuesday called immigration overhaul an "economic imperative" to get the
nation back on track.

And in Florida it was businessmen who made the difference in defeating this
year's immigration proposal. They had far more impact than the thousands of
immigrants, documented and illegal, who came to the Capitol pleading and praying
for lawmakers to abandon the issue.

"I think they had an enormous impact in convincing the Senate that this was not
good policy for Florida," Snyder said of the business, agriculture and tourism
lobbyists against his bill (HB 7089).

Businesses feared that requiring them to use the federal E-Verify system to
ensure that workers are in the country legally, as Snyder's bill would have
done, would have been costly and unreliable.

Agricultural interests, already struggling to find enough workers, were
convinced the plan would be devastating.

And tourism officials were concerned that allowing law enforcement officials to
require documentation for anyone under criminal investigation, also in Snyder's
plan, would scare away international visitors.

"They were so afraid that this would have a negative impact on their industries
and a collective negative impact on Florida that they were able to prevail,"
Snyder said.

Added to that mix were the religious community, including the Catholic
Conference; a united Hispanic caucus opposed to the measure; and a Senate
unwilling to go nearly as far as Snyder.

"It was too burdensome on small businesses," said Sen. Jack Latvala, R-St.
Petersburg, who helped kill an amendment sponsored by Senate Rules Chairman John
Thrasher, R-St. Augustine, that would have required everyone, even individuals,
to use E-Verify before hiring. "And, yes, the Florida Chamber and the
agriculture industry didn't want that legislation."

The final version of the Senate bill (SB 2040) would have required the state to
create workforce boards to use E-Verify rather than making businesses
responsible for the checks, and it would have had law enforcement check the
documentation of immigrants only after they were incarcerated.

That did not go far enough for Thrasher or many tea party-backed Republicans in
the House, but it still went too far for Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami, a
Cuban-American who sponsored the Senate bill but was opposed to any use of
E-Verify.

For this reason, Senate President Mike Haridopolos had Sen. J.D. Alexander,
R-Lake Wales, take over the bill from her late in the session.

Alexander, as the Senate's budget committee chairman, is a key member of
Haridopolos' leadership team, but he also is a citrus farmer whose family has
employed immigrants for generations. He gave an impassioned speech on the Senate
floor that Thrasher credited for killing his E-Verify amendment.

"These are very human issues," Alexander said later. "How we treat our neighbors
reflects on ourselves, and we need to find a responsible way to resolve these
issues.

"Ultimately for many of us, the majority of the Senate, the issues are complex
enough and difficult enough that the tools we have as a state to use are in many
of our views too simplistic and don't allow a more thoughtful system."

He said it is a federal issue that federal officials need to address.

Even so, state lawmakers probably will revisit the issue before they reconvene
in January for next year's session.

Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, is running for the U.S. Senate in the GOP primary
scheduled for August 2012.

His opponents have already blasted him for failing to deliver on immigration, an
issue important to tea party voters.

"This is not going away," Snyder said. "If they want to wait until an election
year to do this one, have at it."

~dara_kam@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

United front helped kill bill ;
 Fla. immigrant groups worked with businesses against Ariz.-style plan.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1163 words


In the months-long war to defeat Arizona-style immigration bills in Tallahassee
this legislative session, groups in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast
sent many people, and even more e-mails and phone calls, to that embattled
front.

The legislation died when the Senate refused to embrace a tough bill sponsored
by state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart. In the gallery on the last day of the
session, May 6, was Manuel Guerra, 27, an undocumented Mexican immigrant who has
been in the U.S. about 10 years and lives in Indiantown.

The bill would have made it much more difficult for people like Guerra to work
in Florida and would have increased the role of local, county and state law
enforcement in detaining the undocumented. "We didn't leave that gallery until
we knew they wouldn't bring something up for a vote," he said.

It was Guerra's fifth trip to Tallahassee this year. On four occasions he made
the seven-hour trip overnight, joining other opponents of the legislation in
day-long, peaceful protests and meetings with lawmakers before returning home
late at night.

Guerra was a foot soldier in the coalition of interests that defeated the
proposed laws. The generals in that battle were entrepreneurs in agriculture and
tourism -- two of the biggest industries in Florida -- and religious leaders,
including Catholic bishops.

"The most effective forces against the legislation were the mainstream forces,
the most conservative forces ---- the businesses and the growers," said Luis
Fleischman, a Jewish community leader in Palm Beach County and a member of
immigrant advocacy group Florida Voices for Immigration Reform.

But the immigrant community mounted its own defense. "Yes, we had strong
allies," said Jos) Diaz, 36, a Guatemalan immigrant from Lake Worth, affiliated
with a different group, the Palm Beach County Coalition for Immigrants Rights.
"But we also showed that our community could come together to try to protect
ourselves."

'We all agree on one thing'

When the fight against the legislation started in earnest early this year, the
two local groups were at odds.

Last July, some coalition members resigned and formed Florida Voices. Attorney
Aileen Josephs, one of those who broke away, cited political differences with
her former colleagues, and tactical disagreements. She said she was afraid,
given the emotional, left-of-center politics of some coalition members, that
they would become too confrontational with the GOP power structure in Florida.

Subhash Kateel, a Miami organizer for Florida Immigrant Coalition, a statewide
organization that includes the local coalition, said his members have strong and
sometimes clashing political opinions about different topics. "But we all agree
on one thing," he said, "the importance of the fight of immigrants' rights."

As the battle against the legislation unfolded the two groups focused on
different strategies.

The coalition sent busloads of immigrants -- legal and not -- to Tallahassee to
demonstrate, testify and to help make the presence of the immigrant community a
constant at the Capitol.

"You get on a bus at 10:30 p.m. here in Lake Worth," said Isabel Vinent, a
coalition leader. "You get to a church up in Tallahassee at 6:15 in the morning,
maybe take a shower, eat breakfast and then go right to the Capitol. Last week
alone we sent three buses. The last night one group of people got off the bus
and others got on and it turned around and went right back."

Many immigrant parents took their young U.S.-born children with them. "One child
was a month old," said Vinent. "Another woman was four days away from giving
birth." The children handed drawings and carefully crafted notes to lawmakers,
asking that their parents not be deported. The parents asked for and often
received meetings in offices with lawmakers and pleaded their case. They filled
hallways, galleries, committee meetings.

"The idea was to tell the legislators stories," said Vinent, "showing them that
these people aren't criminals. They are the people who fix their roofs, do their
landscaping, pick their tomatoes."

'It's going to take everybody'

At one point, some members of FLIC participated in a sit-in. One leader of the
organization was quoted accusing some legislators of racism. Those were the
kinds of tactics that worried Josephs.

"You can't start calling people racists," said Josephs. "Maybe there is some
racism involved with some people, but if you are trying to win over Republicans,
you can't do that."

Vinent said coalition members were not the only ones to use the word "racism."

She said even some Florida business people who opposed the legislation had made
the accusation.

Florida Voices had some activists up in Tallahassee, including Guerra, who said
he spoke with top GOP leaders, including Gov. Rick Scott, and businessmen,
including a top Disney executive.

"Dean Cannon and I are now Facebook friends," he said of the GOP speaker of the
House.

But mainly Florida Voices worked behind the scenes, reaching out to legislators,
especially Republicans and also to business people, many of whom are also
Republicans.

"Most of our contacts with those people were done by e-mail and phone,"
Fleischman said.

At a January town hall meeting in Palm City where Snyder discussed his bill,
Josephs met David Weber, a Polk County blueberry grower, who also opposed the
bill. Weber helped connect Josephs to a group called ImmigrantWorksUSA, a
national business organization that opposes Arizona-style laws. She also
connected to groups called Somos Republicans -- We Are Republicans -- and
Conservatives for Immigration Reform.

"If this situation is going to get fixed the right way, it's going to take
everybody," Josephs said. "Our organization seeks to work as a bridge between
Democrats and Republicans."

'Great victory for all'

During the last days of the session, the coalition poured warm bodies out of
buses and into the Capitol. They spent a lot of time in protest and prayer where
lawmakers might see them.

Florida Voices members in South Florida, meanwhile, worked phones and computers,
contacting legislators and aides.

Josephs said she was also on the phone to a coalition leader in Tallahassee,
Juan Pablo Chavez. They collaborated. "We spoke every day for two weeks," she
said.

At the last moment, J.D. Alexander, a GOP senator and a citrus grower, gave an
impassioned speech defending his longtime farmworkers, many of them
undocumented, and the hard-line legislation died.

Now the coalition and Florida Voices are both celebrating, as are their more
powerful business partners. "In the end, I think we all worked well together,"
said Kateel.

Josephs is complimentary about her former coalition colleagues, despite her
original qualms.

"They did a good job getting people up there," she said. "I think the
conservatives did a lot of work behind the scenes for this not to pass, but
having people up there, too, did make a difference. I think this a great victory
for all the people of Florida."

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION DEBATEIMMIGRATION DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Worker program for state? ;
 Groups say the option for illegal immigrants 'could get traction.'

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 950 words


Representatives of Florida's largest business organizations, who helped defeat
tough, Arizona-style immigration bills in this year's legislative session, are
looking at alternative measures debated in other states that would create
state-administered guest worker programs.

Spokesmen for the Florida Chamber of Commerce and the Associated Industries of
Florida, which represent thousands of Florida firms, said they are studying
bills recently introduced in Utah and Texas. Both organizations said discussions
had just begun and gave few other details.

"The business community is looking at the ideas that Texas and Utah have
presented,'' said Jose Gonzalez, Associated Industries spokesman. "Those states
have begun taking action into their own hands and many in our state, who believe
that immigrants are an integral part of our economy, believe Florida needs to be
proactive on immigration as well."

Edie Ousley, Florida chamber spokeswoman, confirmed the early discussions.

"The Florida chamber has had very informal immigration reform discussions
involving Texas- or Utah-style reform with other organizations," she said.

Neither group would project its plans for the next legislative session, which
begins in January. Most business leaders feel the issue should be left to the
federal government and prefer that the state stay clear.

But state Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, who sponsored the toughest of the
bills, sees it differently.

"The players in the legislature will be the same, but the backdrop will be
different," he said. "Next year is an election year."

In other words, under pressure from constituents, the GOP controlled legislature
could vote differently next time. Sheila Hopkins of the Florida Catholic
Conference, which also opposed the legislation, expressed it more explicitly.

"The tea party has made immigration a high-profile issue, so we can expect them
to bring pressure," she said.

Legislators who back strict immigration enforcement at the state level have said
they want Snyder to reintroduce a version of his bill. That measure mandates the
use of the federal E-Verify system, which determines whether Social Security
numbers presented by would-be new employees are valid. It would also involve
state, county and local law enforcement officers in determining the immigration
status of people suspected of crimes. Snyder's bill passed two House committees
but failed in the Senate.

The Florida Chamber and Associated Industries, as well as Florida's agriculture
industry, which relies heavily on undocumented workers, crusaded against the
bill. They warned it would cripple agriculture and might set off boycotts of
Florida, such as the ones that damaged the Arizona economy, and could harm
Florida tourism.

What other states are trying

Meanwhile, other approaches were being debated in some states, where legislators
felt they had to act because the federal government is not dealing with the 11
million undocumented immigrants in the country.

In March, Utah, one of the most conservative states, created a guest worker
program that will allow undocumented people legal permission to work there, if
they can prove they have been employed in Utah since Jan. 1, 2010. An
undocumented worker will have to pass criminal background checks and pay fines
as high as $2,500 for entering the state illegally, but he or she and immediate
family members will be temporarily legal.

Legislators in Texas introduced similar bills this year. Those measures died in
committee, but Florida business leaders are still studying them. One provision
would have had the state work with Mexican authorities to identify and process
would-be workers. Those accepted would have paid $4,000 for a work permit good
for up to eight years.

Gonzalez said Associated Industries is also "intrigued" with the idea of
creating a law, like one proposed in Texas, by which Florida would collect taxes
from registered immigrant workers to defray the cost of services they use while
in the state.

Many supporters of Snyder's tough approach on immigration complain about the
cost to Florida in unpaid health care expenditures, education for immigrant
children and layouts for other services.

Election year an obstacle

But 2012 is an election year and even with fines imposed and tax proposals to
recoup costs to the state, such guest worker legislation would likely meet
strong opposition from some conservatives who label it amnesty, Gonzalez said.

Hopkins of the Catholic Conference said support for a state guest worker program
would depend on the details. The U.S. government runs visa programs that allow
the importation of foreign workers for certain jobs, including in agriculture.
But those visas tie foreign workers to one employer and immigrant advocates say
that has led to abuse of workers by some employers.

Also, employers have complained that such programs require them to pay for
worker housing and transportation, creating complications and expense.

Hopkins said a Utah-style solution, allowing workers already in the state to
sign up but not be tied to one employer, and which would not place large demands
on employers, could work for Florida.

"It's something that could get traction," she said, speaking of the legislature.
"People are looking for a solution," especially given the alternative of an
Arizona-style law, she said.

Snyder said he was already "strategizing" about reintroducing his bill in the
next session. He said he was unhappy with the lack of Senate support this year,
where his E-Verify provision was stripped.

He said he is willing to sponsor the hard-line legislation again "predicated on
the signals I get from the Senate and their willingness to go the distance."

~john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal, but very promising

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 445 words


If only Florida could do what the federal government has failed to do: fix the
flawed work-visa system that is at the root of so many immigration problems. But
for reasons both practical and legal, only Congress can do that job, however
unsuited it may be for the work.

The Post's John Lantigua reported last week that some of Florida's largest
business groups have discussed calling for a state guest-worker program that
would grant illegal immigrants permits to work "legally" in agriculture. The
idea, based on a program created this year in Utah, is promising but also
unconstitutional. Courts repeatedly have ruled that the Constitution assigns
immigration powers to the federal government, not the states. But Utah's program
could be a model for fixing the country's flawed visa program.

Florida agriculture depends on more than 100,000 illegal immigrants, even though
the federal government already has a program to import foreign farmworkers. The
problem is that few employers or workers make use of these H-2A visas. Employers
must sponsor the workers, a lengthy process, and can be required to provide food
and housing. To be eligible, prospective workers -- frequently impoverished
Central American villagers -- must submit extensive paperwork, generally cannot
bring family members and can work only for the employer who sponsors them,
making them susceptible to abuse. Not surprisingly, both sides often prefer to
do things under the table.

Utah's program seeks to eliminate these problems by decoupling workers from
employers. To qualify for a state work permit, illegal immigrants would pay a
fine and meet other conditions. Since prospective employers only would have to
pay them, employers have less disincentive to spurn them for illegal employees.
Workers could leave a job if abused or underpaid and, by emerging from the
shadows, would pay more taxes and have more protections.

These changes by themselves would not solve our immigration problems. But like
some unsuccessful proposals in Congress, they would help to create a more viable
system that protects workers while restoring rule of law to one of Florida's
largest industries.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder will "take the necessary steps" if he decides
Utah's law raises constitutional problems. As with Arizona's ham-handed effort
last year, it likely does. The U.S. cannot have a confusing patchwork of local
immigration laws that usurp federal power. But this attempt at a solution, from
one of the country's most conservative states, shouldn't stop Congress from
studying Utah's model and trying to adapt it to solve a national problem.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Attorney is a fake, feds say ;
 He allegedly used a real lawyer's name in cases.

BYLINE: By JANE MUSGRAVE Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


At least one client raved about Levy Garcia-Crespo.

"This is the best lawyer!!!!!!!!!" she wrote in an online review.

"This attorney saved my husband from being deported. ... Attorney Crespo is a
blessing from God."

While Garcia-Crespo might be heaven sent, prosecutors said Friday, he isn't a
lawyer.

A day after dozens of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents raided his
home and office, Garcia-Crespo, 34, was charged Friday with a complicated felony
that essentially accuses him of impersonating a lawyer.

At a hearing in U.S. District Court, prosecutors said he filed 3,000 false
immigration forms, allowing illegal immigrants to get driver licenses. He also
represented clients in court.

He did so, investigators said, using the name of real attorney Gerald Salerno.

Salerno, a former assistant state attorney, didn't return several calls for
comment. It appears he and Garcia-Crespo shared an office in Palm Way
Professional Centre on Forest Hill Boulevard.

However, while that is the address Salerno lists with the Florida Bar and on his
website, in a recent federal court filing he said he worked for the Fort
Lauderdale law firm Benjamin & Aaronson. Jamie Benjamin said he never heard of
Salerno. The phone number he listed on court documents rings at the Broward
County Courthouse.

Of course, the court papers could have been filed by Garcia-Crespo.

An ICE spokeswoman would only say of Salerno that the investigation is ongoing.

Attorneys described Salerno, 48, as pleasant. "He seems like a nice guy trying
to make a living like the rest of us," attorney Bill Abramson said.

Garcia-Crespo's Lake Clarke Shores neighbors said whatever business he was in
appeared to be lucrative. Mercedes and Land Rovers lined his driveway, they
said.

However, Salerno, who lives in St. Lucie County, seems to have some financial
problems.

Records show in September he and his wife lost a home they owned in St. Lucie
County to foreclosure. The IRS in August filed a $30,000 lien against him for
unpaid business taxes.

Garcia-Crespo told U.S. Magistrate James Hopkins he could afford an attorney. At
prosecutors' request, Hopkins ordered that he remain in jail without bail until
a hearing Wednesday.

His wife declined comment as she left the courtroom. "Please don't make it any
harder," she said. She then stood by a bank of elevators and sobbed.

~jane_musgrave@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Give U.S. workers first shot ;
 It's too easy for businesses to import employees.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 468 words


In the topsy-turvy immigration reform debate, there's one thing most everyone
agrees on: American citizens should have first crack at American jobs. Even the
Republican and Democratic members of Palm Beach County's congressional
delegation seem more or less of one mind. Let's not let this rare moment of
Zenlike accord pass unnoticed.

Of course, the seeming consensus has considerable gaps. Among the detractors:
many of Palm Beach County's high-end resorts and country clubs, which save money
and minimize their contact with working-class Americans by importing pliable
foreign workers through an easily manipulated federal work-visa system.

As a Post investigation discovered this month, these job-importers include two
of Palm Beach's crown jewels: The Breakers hotel and Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago
Club. Reached this week, officials from neither wanted to answer our questions
about what steps they take to hire local workers before seeking federal approval
to import workers. But there's plenty of reason to think they are hardly trying
at all.

Palm Beach County's Workforce Alliance, a nonprofit that connects workers with
jobs, would be a logical starting point for any local company that claims it
can't find locals to work as cooks, waiters and cleaners. But the Workforce
Alliance says it has never heard a word from The Breakers, Mar-a-Lago or their
ilk. Neither has the county's Urban League.

So how do these companies recruit? All they're required to do before importing
workers on temporary H-2B visas is advertise their positions in a local
newspaper and on an online job site. Some local resorts are doing so now -- for
jobs not available for four months. Want to be a waiter? Jupiter's Ritz-Carlton
Golf Club and Spa has a spot for you. The catch is, according to its listing on
EmployFlorida.com, you can't start until Oct. 15.

Resorts love foreign workers because they don't have to give them raises and the
workers essentially must do whatever they're told. Unless they want to return to
their home countries empty-handed, the workers can't quit. They generally aren't
allowed to look for other jobs, so they're vulnerable to abuse by unscrupulous
employers.

As we've said before, temporary work visas play an important role in filling
gaps in the American work force, but it is far too easy for a business to win
approval to bring in foreign workers. Business lobbies who support Republicans
love these visas, which is surely why the reactions to The Post's findings from
two Republicans, U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney and U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, have been more
tempered than those of local Democrats. But in a state with double-digit
employment, it's going to be hard for members of either party to explain away
the need to fix this flawed system.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IMMIGRATION REFORM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Huntsman boosts buzz in Fla. debut ;
 Debating war and immigration, the Republican draws bipartisan focus.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Newly announced Republican presidential candidate Jon Huntsman's first campaign
visit to Florida piqued the curiosity of some high-profile Republicans and drew
attacks from some top Democrats as he vowed to run "very, very aggressively" in
the Sunshine State.

The former Utah governor and recent U.S. ambassador to China defended his 2009
support for the $787 billion federal stimulus bill, called for a larger drawdown
of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and said beefed-up border security must precede
any larger immigration reform.

He visited a lumber and building supply business and a Cuban cafe here Thursday
before heading to a fundraiser in Naples and the opening of his national
headquarters in Orlando.

"We have an early-state strategy," Huntsman said. "I would liken it to running
for governor in three states simultaneously. New Hampshire is going to be
critical, South Carolina is going to be critical and obviously Florida I think
will be where the Republican nomination is finally decided."

Huntsman's entourage included his wife, Mary Kaye, and five of his seven
children. Others tagging along -- but not formally endorsing Huntsman --
included Jeb Bush Jr., state House Majority Leader Carlos Lopez-Cantera and
veteran Miami GOP consultant Ana Navarro.

Bush, 27, son of the popular former Florida governor and the nephew and grandson
of former U.S. presidents, said he's "excited" about Huntsman but "I'm still
looking around, just like everybody else. I think half the party is sitting on
the sidelines looking for someone that's going to lead us to victory in 2012."

Navarro, sought-after by Republicans seeking Latino support, described herself
as "kicking the tires. ... I very much like what I see so far."

With at least eight TV cameras following him, Huntsman visited Everglades Lumber
and Building Supply, a business that once employed more than 300 people but now
has about 80 workers. When Republican Sen. John McCain held a rally at the
lumberyard just before the 2008 election, it had about 175 employees.

"What helps businesses like this more than anything else? It's overall economic
uplift that only occurs when you've got a competitive economic environment,"
Huntsman said. He spoke of cutting taxes and loosening regulations to free up
capital.

Later, Huntsman spent more time listening than talking to a group of business
leaders at Sarussi Cafe and Restaurant.

For those familiar with GOP campaign rituals in Miami, Huntsman's restaurant
choice represented a departure from orthodoxy. Republican candidates routinely
visit the Versailles Restaurant about 30 blocks east in Little Havana -- a
practice so common that Navarro said it can be a "clich)."

Some other departures from Republican norms could be more significant for
Huntsman's campaign.

As Utah governor, he supported the stimulus. He told Politico in a February 2009
interview that the legislation, bitterly opposed by many Republicans, "probably
wasn't large enough."

Asked about the stimulus Thursday, Huntsman said: "Read the rest of that
statement where I called for more in the way of business tax cuts, more in the
way of targeted spending in infrastructure projects, the kinds of infrastructure
projects this country needs in order to keep the economy going. So don't leave
it as a stand-alone comment but read the rest of it as well because there's more
to it."

In the 2009 Politico interview, Huntsman did go on to say that "there probably
wasn't enough stimulus effect." He suggested "a payroll tax exemption or maybe
even a cut in the corporate tax ... for small and medium-sized businesses for
three years."

And a few months later, at a conference in Los Angeles, Huntsman said the
stimulus had "too little focus on meaningful and relevant infrastructure that
would have enhanced our entire nation and our ability to compete."

Florida Democratic Chairman Rod Smith cited Huntsman's stimulus stance this week
in accusing the Republican of going on a "reinvention tour" as he pursues GOP
primary votes. Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz
used the same phrase Thursday to blast Huntsman.

Huntsman, 51, was tapped by President Obama to be U.S. ambassador to China in
2009. He stepped down this year.

Asked about Obama's call for withdrawing 33,000 of the approximately 100,000
U.S. troops from Afghanistan over the next year, Huntsman said he favors troop
levels "well below what we have today and I think well below what the president
has advocated over the next year."

He added: "I believe the future of our country will be based on whether or not
we're able to prepare ourselves for the competitive challenges of the 21st
century. And that's likely to be across the Pacific Ocean, not in the prairies
of Afghanistan."

Huntsman fielded several questions about immigration reform.

"To begin this conversation, we need to prove the point that we can secure the
border. And we're not there yet," he said. "Until we do that we're not going to
have, I think, the basis for a rational conversation on immigration reform."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Full Florida coverage  Get more politicalheadlines spanning the state.
PalmBeachPost.com/state

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportations spark protest in Miami ;
 Group targets Obama, new law enforcement initiative.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH


Felipe Matos, originally of Brazil, told a crowd of protesters here Tuesday that
he knocked on hundreds of doors campaigning for Barack Obama in 2008.

But he said he may save his knuckles during the next election cycle in 2012. "I
feel betrayed," Matos told the group of about 30 people who gathered outside
Democratic Party headquarters in Miami-Dade Tuesday.

The group was there to protest Obama's support for an immigration enforcement
initiative called Secure Communities, which has contributed to the deportation
of 1 million undocumented people from the United States since 2009. The protest
was one of nine demonstrations staged around the country on the same day,
insisting that the president quash the program.

The program requires that local law enforcement entities collaborate with the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency by sending ICE fingerprints of people
detained. ICE then determines if that person is undocumented and should be
deported.

The program was originally advertised as a way of finding people illegally in
the country who had committed serious crimes. Opponents of the policy say a
large number of the people deported were not serious criminals, but were guilty
of only minor offenses, including traffic offenses.

The program met opposition from among government officials in some parts of the
country and for a time ICE let states opt out.

But earlier this month ICE reversed itself and announced the program is now
mandatory all over the U.S. Since fingerprint information on all detainees is
already sent to the FBI, that same information will go to ICE.

That provoked the protests Tuesday. It also led organizations that defend
immigrant rights to circulate a petition nationwide directed at Obama, which
said Secure Communities had "devastated" immigrant communities.

~John_Lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DUI arrest puts Obama uncle on federal immigration hold

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 400 words


FRAMINGHAM, MASS.

President Obama's uncle was stopped on suspicion of drunken driving, told police
he planned to arrange bail through the White House and was being held without
bail on an immigration detainer, authorities said Monday.

Onyango Obama, 67, was arrested last week in Framingham, about 20 miles west of
Boston.

Police said Obama, who's originally from Kenya and is the half-brother of the
president's late father, pleaded not guilty Friday and was being held without
bail on a detainer from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In a court
document, ICE said he had an earlier deportation or removal order.

The White House declined to comment on the matter Monday.

WASHINGTON

9/11 naval hero found guilty of fraud

A retired naval officer honored for his valor during the Sept. 11 attack on the
Pentagon was found guilty Monday of defrauding the victims' compensation fund by
exaggerating his injuries.

Retired Cmdr. Charles Coughlin of Severna Park, Md., was found guilty of making
a false claim and stealing public money after he got $331,034 from the fund set
up by Congress after the 2001 attacks.

The charges carry maximum penalties of up to 15 years in prison.

SANTA ANA, CALIF.

Man arrested after tossing son into sea

A California man was arrested for investigation of throwing his crying
7-year-old son into the water from a sightseeing cruise boat during an argument
that shocked other passengers, authorities said Monday.

Sloane Briles, 35, was taken into custody for child endangerment and resisting
arrest, Orange County sheriff's spokesman Jim Amormino said.

The boy was quickly rescued and returned to the care of his mother.

BEIJING

22 miners rescued after week in pit

Twenty-two coal miners were rescued early today from their flooded pit in
northeastern China after being trapped underground for a week. State broadcaster
CCTV showed the men being brought slowly to the surface, with all apparently in
good condition.

QUITO, ECUADOR

Tainted alcohol buyback under way

Ecuadorean authorities are trying to buy back half a million bottles of
contaminated alcohol and end an outbreak of alcohol poisoning that has killed 48
people and sickened hundreds.

The liquor is tainted with methanol, or wood alcohol, which is used for
industrial purposes, officials say. The buyback involves 14 brands of wine and
other alcohol that stores have been barred from selling since July.

-- Post wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR WORLD AT A GLANCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

District weighs policy for immigrant students

BYLINE: By JASON SCHULTZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 577 words


The Palm Beach County School District might create separate policies governing
how students prove which school they are allowed to attend -- an easier one for
immigrants, a more stringent one for others.

That was one of the main suggestions to emerge from a workshop Thursday, where
district officials discussed proposed updates to a 2007 policy aimed at
deterring "boundary jumping" -- the practice of faking students' addresses to
get them into a different school. The policy spells out how far school officials
can go in questioning documents and what types of documents they can request,
such as driver licenses, passports, rental leases and utility bills.

"Right now, people believe I can go wherever I want by submitting a document and
saying my child lives with somebody else," Jupiter High School Principal Cheryl
Alligood said.

Jupiter turned away about 100 suspected boundary jumpers last year, including
some who live in Martin County, Alligood said. Gayle Rendina, who oversees
student registration at Park Vista High in suburban Boynton Beach, said her
school turned away about 70 this year.

Palm Beach Gardens High Principal Larry Clawson said that state-mandated
class-size limits, which cap core classes at 25 students, make boundary jumpers
an even bigger concern.

"When you are sitting at 25 per class now, that one child who is using that form
is going to put me over when he could be at a school that has room for him,"
Clawson said.

Two legal groups, the Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County and the Florida
Equal Justice Center, last month filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of
Education's Office of Civil Rights alleging that the district's registration
requirements discriminate against undocumented immigrants. Lisa Carmona, the
justice center's senior attorney, asked for policy changes to eliminate barriers
to immigrant enrollment.

Federal law requires school districts to educate children, regardless of
immigration status.

Connie Berry, a specialist with the district's multicultural education
department, said she encounters numerous cases of immigrants who have been out
of school for six months or more because their families did not have the
required documents.

"There are students who are denied an education because of this policy," Berry
said.

Officials at the workshop suggested documents that immigrants would be able to
get, such as an affidavit of address, but principals said those could be used as
loopholes by boundary-jumping parents.

Margarita Pinkos, director of the district's multicultural education department,
said that anything the district does to make it easier for undocumented
immigrants to enroll would weaken the ability to deter boundary jumpers.

Pinkos and Berry suggested a two-policy approach.

Schools cannot ask about immigration status, but they can ask whether children
were born outside the U.S. and how long they have been here, Pinkos said. One
proposal, which would apply only to children who were born outside the U.S. and
had been here for a short time, would allow a school to accept easier-to-obtain
registration documents such as an affidavit of address. All other students would
have to enroll under the tougher registration requirements.

Bruce Harris, senior counsel for the district, noted that there is already a
separate registration policy for homeless children.

District officials plan to present a proposal to update the policy at a future
school board meeting.

~ jason_schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  SCHOOLS Enrollment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP candidates keep piling on Perry in Orlando after his lackluster debate
Thursday ;
 The front-runner takes hits on immigration, lackluster debate attack on Romney.

BYLINE: By GEORGE BENNETT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO


After Republican presidential front-runner Rick Perry's rocky performance in
Thursday night's GOP candidate debate, the Texas governor's rivals renewed their
attacks on his immigration stance Friday while Perry declared the race shouldn't
be about choosing "the slickest candidate or the smoothest debater."

For the third time this month, a nationally televised debate featured Republican
candidates piling on Perry on a variety of issues. Perry fumbled at times when
he tried to hit back at leading rival Mitt Romney, who smilingly deflected some
of Perry's debate attacks by declaring, "Nice try."

Perry made another try Friday, hammering the former Massachusetts governor for
supporting a health care plan in his state that included a requirement that
individuals buy health insurance.

While Perry has cast himself as a no-nonsense conservative, he has taken fire
from the right for opposing a fence along the entire U.S.-Mexico border and for
supporting in-state college tuition benefits for children of illegal immigrants.

Perry's opponents renewed those criticisms Friday as the nine leading GOP
candidates took turns addressing a Conservative Political Action Conference
crowd of more than 2,000. The conference coincides with the Republican Party of
Florida's "Presidency 5" candidate showcase, which included Thursday's debate
and a presidential straw poll today.

Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, whose candidacy has been hurt the most since
Perry entered the race last month, made sure the conservative audience saw the
contrast between her immigration position and Perry's.

"I will build a fence along our southern border against illegal immigration. And
we will not have taxpayer-subsidized benefits for illegal immigrants or their
children," she declared.

When it was Romney's turn to address the group, he took issue with Perry's
contention that opponents of the Texas tuition program "don't have a heart."

Said Romney: "I think if you're opposed to illegal immigration, it doesn't mean
that you don't have a heart. It means that you have a heart and a brain."

Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, who called Perry "soft" on immigration
Thursday, reminded the conservative activists Friday that "I'm for a border
fence, not like some in this race."

The debate came on the same day as a Quinnipiac University poll that showed
Perry leading Romney 28 percent to 22 percent in Florida. Perry also tops Romney
in most national polls. But the consensus among Republican and conservative
activists at the Orange County Convention Center on Friday was that Romney
outperformed Perry in the debate the night before.

"If in fact it's a two-person race, Romney had a very good night," said Palm
Beach County GOP Chairman Sid Dinerstein, who hasn't endorsed a candidate.
"Perry probably wasted too much time on unimportant attacks and we'll have to
see how the polling plays out. He looked better in West Palm Beach (at a private
fundraiser Wednesday) than he did in the debate last night."

South Florida Tea Party Chairman Everett Wilkinson agreed.

"I thought Romney won the debate. I thought Perry lacked a very good defense. I
think he faltered," said Wilkinson, who also hasn't endorsed a candidate. He
said tea party activists generally favor Perry, Bachmann and businessman Herman
Cain and are leery of Romney's status as a "Republican establishment candidate."

Florida House Speaker Dean Cannon, a Perry supporter, said the Texas governor
"stood his ground" against his opponents, but conceded that "as a matter of
forensics, Romney did look very polished."

Perry admitted as much in his CPAC speech. "It's not who is the slickest
candidate or the smoothest debater that we need to elect," he said. "Remember
President Clinton?"

Perry sought to turn attention to Romney's Massachusetts health care plan, which
conservative critics call a precursor to the federal health care law signed by
President Obama in 2010.

"The model for socialized medicine has already been tried, and it failed. Not
just in Western Europe, but in Massachusetts," Perry said.

Each of the candidates was given 15 minutes to speak. Several invoked Ronald
Reagan, but former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich was truest to Reagan's "11th
commandment" against speaking ill of a fellow Republican.

Former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman was the only candidate to acknowledge deviation
from prevailing conservative sentiment in his speech. While emphasizing his
opposition to abortion, support for gun rights and fiscal conservatism, he noted
that he believes in human-caused climate change, supports civil unions for gay
couples and favors a speedy pullout of troops from Afghanistan.

"To win in 2012 and beyond, we must appeal to the tea party and to conservative
Republicans," he said. "But we must also bring into the tent moderate
Republicans, independents and, yes, conservative Democrats."

~ george_bennett@pbpost.com

Latest from Orlando

Get continuing coverage of the Presidency 5 event, including straw poll results
this evening.

PostOnPolitics.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Inside  ZLittle-known candidatesteps into the spotlight. 8A ZDebate
audience's booing of gay soldier draws criticism. 10A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants' kids sue over tuition ;
 U.S. citizens whose parents are undocumented pay out-of-state fees.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 666 words


Five students who were born in the United States, raised in Florida and
graduated from its high schools are suing state education officials after being
charged out-of-state tuition rates at public colleges and universities because
their parents are undocumented.

"Even if you can prove you are a U.S. citizen, they are then asking you if your
parents are U.S. citizens," said Attorney Tania Galloni of the Miami office of
the Southern Poverty Law Center, who is representing the students in a class
action suit. "There is nothing in the statute that says they have to do this.
This is an interpretation of the law being made by state officials."

The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Miami, charges that state policies
discriminate against certain U.S. citizen students because of the immigration
status of their parents and that is unconstitutional. Charging such students
out-of-state tuition rates greatly increases the cost of attending state
colleges and universities.

"Many talented American students must either forgo higher education or incur
extraordinary costs, in both money and time, in order to obtain the same
education made available to other Florida residents at a small fraction of the
cost," the suit says.

One of the students named in the suit is Kassandra Romero, 18, who was born in
California, but has lived in Florida for 13 years, most recently with her family
in Delray Beach. According to the lawsuit, Romero has "a Florida high school
diploma, a Florida driver's license, and other proof of her continuous residence
in Florida."

"Although Kassandra registered for classes at Palm Beach State College, in June
2011, school officials informed her that she would have to show proof of her
parents' legal immigration status in order to qualify for in-state tuition
rates," the complaint states. "Unable to meet that requirement and unable to
afford non-resident tuition rates, Kassandra withdrew from college. She
currently works at a restaurant."

Of the five students named in the class action suit, only Romero was born
outside Florida.

The lawsuit states that at Palm Beach State College, students who pay in-state
rates in the associate degree programs are charged $96 per credit hour, while
those classified as nonresidents are charged $349.

For 24 credits over the academic year, nonresidents are charged $6,072 more in
tuition toward an associate's degree. Resident students in the bachelor's degree
program are charged $113.64 per credit hour, while nonresidents are charged
$520.90, the complaint says.

For 24 credits over the academic year, non-residents are charged $9,774.24 more
in tuition toward a bachelor's degree than residents.

Such differences in tuition also exist at other state schools.

"In short, United States citizen students who reside in Florida but whose
parents are undocumented immigrants are charged three to four times as much as
other Florida residents for the same education at Florida's public colleges and
universities," the complaint states.

Galloni says that according to Florida statutes governing tuition rates, legal
residence is defined by having a legitimate Florida domicile for at least 12
months before the student enters the school.

"There is nothing in the statute that refers to immigration status," Galloni
said.

The lawsuit names as defendants Gerard Robinson, Florida commissioner of
education, and Frank Brogan, chancellor of the state university system. It
claims that in charging the out-of state fees to U.S. born students who can
prove their legal residence in Florida, state education officials are violating
the 14th Amendment by denying those students equal protection of the laws.

"These American students went to the same Florida high schools, held down the
same part-time jobs and participated in the same after-school activities as
their counterparts who are granted in-state tuition," Galloni said. "We are
simply asking that these students be granted the same rights as all other
Florida citizens."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In your community

BYLINE:

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 588 words


BOYNTON BEACH

9 Cuban rafters come ashore

Nine Cuban immigrants -- eight men and one woman -- came ashore on a raft near
Ocean Avenue early Wednesday after spending 11 days at sea, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection said. One was taken to Bethesda Memorial Hospital to be
treated for dehydration. The nine people will next go before a federal
immigration judge to determine their status.

-- Alexandra Seltzer

Lobby rules shift to county

City commissioners voted this month to stop enforcing its lobbying ordinance and
instead shift responsibility to Palm Beach County's Commission on Ethics. The
new rules will say that commissioners must identify anyone who's lobbied them on
someone's behalf for pay, and companies will have to disclose that they
contacted commissioners. City Attorney James Cherof has said the previous rules
were vague. Four people who were fined this year on charges they lobbied without
registering still must face appeals.

-- Eliot Kleinberg

LANTANA

'No swimming' advisory at beach

The Palm Beach County Health Department has posted a "no swimming" advisory for
Lantana Beach after tests showed poor water quality. The Lantana Beach results
show 170 parts of enterococcus, a bacteria found in feces, per 100 milliliters
of water. Water is considered to be of good quality if it has less than 35 parts
of enterococcus per 100 milliliters of water. The advisory will remain in effect
until the water quality moves into the good range, according to the health
department.

-- Mary Hladky

JUPITER

Tours of battlefield park offered

Weekly tours of the 1838 Second Seminole Indian War battlefield are being held
at Loxahatchee Battlefield Park on the south side of Indiantown Road, about a
mile west of Florida's Turnpike. The tours start at 12:30 p.m. on the first
Saturday of every month. On other Saturdays, the tours start at 10:30 a.m. The
free tours take about an hour. Visitors should bring water and bug spray and
wear comfortable shoes. Tour guides and new members of a preservationist group
are being sought. For information, go to loxahatcheebattlefield.com or call
(561) 748-4014.

-- Bill DiPaolo

lake worth

Occupancy letters reconsidered

Letters sent to property owners regarding the city's new use and occupancy
certificate program can be largely disregarded for now, city commissioners
decided Tuesday. Mayor Rachel Waterman questioned the letters, mailed to about
5,000 property owners on Oct. 12, after residents told her they found them
confusing. The letters asked them to pay application and inspection fees for
rental properties. William Waters, director of the Department for Community
Sustainability, said his staff will send future letters about the program after
doing research to determine how properties are being used. Waters said it would
be helpful if owners who received the Oct. 12 letter but do not rent their
properties would return them with notes stating that their properties are not
rented.

-- Willie Howard

Body identified; wife hospitalized

Authorities identified a suburban Lake Worth man found dead in the bathtub as
John McCann, 64, who neighbors said they had not seen since the summer. McCann's
wife, Sharon, was taken into custody and held at JFK Medical Center in Atlantis
for a psychological evaluation under the Baker Act. She had been missing since
Monday, when the body was discovered. Sheriff's detectives are now trying to
piece together how long John McCann had been in the bathtub at couple's home,
where his wife has been and why she never reported his death.

-- Cynthia Roldan

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Community briefs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tough Ala. laws weaken farmers' workforce ;
 Crackdown has prompted some immigrants to flee.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1214 words

DATELINE: DOTHAN, Ala.


The walls of Ray's Restaurant bear tributes to the University of Alabama's
football team -- the Crimson Tide -- almost always among the toughest in the
nation.

But on a recent morning, amid the pennants, the image of legendary coach Bear
Bryant and the enticing aromas of bacon, eggs and grits, the conversation turns
to a field where Alabama is the very toughest in the U.S.: immigration law.

"The governor is absolutely right," said J.P. Radney, 81, a retired city
employee, referring to Republican Gov. Robert Bentley. "If they're not legal,
they shouldn't be here."

The half-dozen other men of long, local political experience gathered for a
midmorning coffee klatch nod in agreement as to what should be done with
undocumented workers. When told that some area business owners -- especially
farmers -- disagree because expelling workers will hurt the economy, the men are
adamant.

"You can't blame those people from coming here, given the poverty they live in,"
said Bobby Snellgrove, 68, a former Houston County commissioner, speaking of
Mexican and Central American immigrants. "And they'll do any kind of work you
have. But in some cases, they are being hired just to provide businesses here
with cheap labor, and that has to stop."

The men at the table and many other Alabamans believe that, in a time of high
unemployment, they must hold a goal-line stand against undocumented workers as
an example for the federal government they say has refused to deal with the
problem.

Tough measures

In June, the Alabama Legislature passed a law that allows local law enforcement
officials to jail people who are illegally in the country and hold them without
bail. It also makes hiring or renting to undocumented people illegal. The
measure took effect Sept. 29, and some of the 185,000 undocumented workers
thought to be in Alabama left the state, including an unknown number who fled to
Florida.

The willingness of the governor and the GOP-controlled legislature to clash with
state business interests -- especially agriculture -- marks a sharp difference
with Florida.

This year in Tallahassee, tough immigration bills were presented but were voted
down in part because the two most powerful Florida business lobbies --
agriculture and tourism -- opposed them.

Both those industries are important in Alabama as well, if not as dominant as in
Florida, but even after they expressed concerns, the immigration bill passed.
And if Bentley and GOP legislators refuse to bend, Alabama may serve as a model
-- or a cautionary tale, depending on one's perspective -- for what could happen
if Florida decides to follow suit.

John Aplin, whose family owns Aplin Farms near Slocomb, 15 miles west of Dothan,
sees no sign of retreat.

"Some farmers from farther north in the state met with the governor recently to
tell him about the trouble this is causing, and all he had to say was: 'The law
is the law,'" said Aplin, 44, a trim, sun-burnished man in a baseball cap,
sitting a few feet away from a tractor. "He didn't budge."

Tough times

Aplin's family farms 200 to 300 acres of tomatoes and other crops on this flat,
fertile land just a few miles from Florida. He said his 20 or so employees stuck
around to complete the harvest this sweltering summer, but many told him they
won't return.

"They told me they're done here," Aplin said. "They're going somewhere they feel
safe."

Aplin said some of those workers are legally in the country, but since other
members of their families aren't, they got out.

"They don't want anybody from their family getting deported," he said. "They're
tight that way."

Aplin's friend Monica Carroll, 41, of Ozark, 30 miles north, wasn't so lucky
this year.

"We couldn't find workers to finish picking the crop, and we lost about $6,000
in tomatoes," Carroll said.

She said her farm also breeds more than 90,000 chickens at a time and about half
her 25 poultry workers left at a crucial moment in the season.

"The workers we still have are working double shifts, 16 or 17 hours per day,"
she said. "But there is just so long they can do that."

Both Aplin and Carroll say that they traditionally buy expensive tomato seed in
January in order to plant in March and April and harvest in the summer months.
Thousands of dollars are at stake.

"Do I buy the seed if I'm not sure I'll have the people to work?" Aplin said.

His neighbor, farmer Janice Sawyer, 63, said she faces the same question.

"If I see any of the senators who voted for this, I'll tell 'em, 'You may be
going hungry soon,'" she said, standing near a slow-moving conveyor belt where a
reduced number of female Mexican workers are sorting white peas. "Or those
senators may be buying their food from China."

Both Aplin and Sawyer say they tried U.S. citizen workers, but the combination
of heat and back-breaking work sent Americans heading for home in no time.

"Immigrants do five times the work," Aplin said.

One alternative is the U.S. Labor Department's H-2A visas, which allow farmers
to import seasonal foreign workers. But those visas require that employers pay
the transportation costs of each worker from his or her native country, the cost
of the government paperwork and the housing for all workers.

The visas also require farmers to pay a basic wage of over $9 per hour, as
opposed to the $7.25 minimum wage that Aplin said his workers are now assured.

He said the visa program will cost him an extra $900 per worker, cutting into
his profits.

Not everyone is sympathetic.

'Taking jobs from people'

"Boo hoo for the farmers," said Peter, 47, of Dothan, a church music director
who does not want his surname used. "Undocumented workers, at least some of
them, are taking jobs from people who are legal. And in the cases that no one
else wants the job, like on farms, it's probably because those farmers work
those Mexicans half to death. They should pay them that extra money."

Back at Ray's Restaurant, another major reason given for getting rid of
undocumented workers is that they are paid under the table and don't pay taxes.

"In most cases, that isn't true," said Monica Ramirez, a lawyer with the
Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala.

She said, just as in Florida, many employers accept counterfeit Social Security
cards as a way of covering themselves legally. They then take out both payroll
taxes and Social Security and issue pay stubs just as they do for legal workers.

Taking it to Washington

The discussion leader at the restaurant, Radney, doesn't believe that. He said
in southern Alabama, farmers traditionally paid under the table. He believes
many still do, which leads to a lack of tax dollars to pay for services used by
the undocumented. He sounds more irritated with the farmers than the workers.

The last word in the discussion goes to late arrival Paul Lee, the local
Republican state representative who voted for the immigration law. He
acknowledges that the move by GOP political leaders has angered business
leaders, also mostly Republicans. He hopes the conflict will get Congress --
including Republican members who have been the most opposed to changes in
national immigration law -- to act.

"Somewhere, it has to start," he said. "Let's hope this gets the federal
government to do what it's supposed to do."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGEImmigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney nets S. Fla. backers ;
 Past and present U.S. representatives endorse the GOP front-runner.

BYLINE: By ANA M. VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: MEDLEY


Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney picked up the endorsements of
three big-name Cuban-American political figures on Tuesday, during an early
campaign stop at a Miami-area food distribution company.

At Conchita Foods, a family-owned business established in South Florida in the
1960s but founded in Cuba, U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, U.S. Rep. Mario
Diaz-Balart and former U.S. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart announced they would
support Romney.

These are key endorsements for Romney, who could benefit from the support of the
heavily Republican exile community in the Jan. 31 primary.

Ros-Lehtinen and the Diaz-Balart brothers, who in 2008 backed Republican
candidate John McCain for president, will join Romney's campaign as foreign
policy advisers and members of his Latin American Working Group.

Ros-Lehtinen, who chairs the House Foreign Relations Committee, said that
although she may not agree 100 percent with Romney on issues like immigration,
she thinks he's the right candidate to handle the country's current economic
problems.

In 2008, before becoming a presidential candidate, Romney supported the idea of
allowing some illegal immigrants to remain in the country. But Romney now
opposes the Dream Act, which could grant legal residence to illegal immigrants
who have been in the country for years. Ros-Lehtinen supports the Dream Act.

"We just can't afford to have four more years of Barack Obama's economic plan,"
Ros-Lehtinen said in an interview Tuesday morning. "Romney's got the experience
and the talent and a solid plan to create private-sector jobs."

During the campaign stop at the Conchita warehouse near Hialeah, Romney told
dozens of supporters that he, not President Obama, understands how important it
is to help businesses create jobs.

"I don't think (President Obama) understands America; I don't think he
understands the economy," Romney said. "Instead, he believes the government has
the answers to all our problems."

While Romney tours Florida, his rivals on the campaign trail are focusing on
other key states. Newt Gingrich is spending three days in South Carolina this
week, while Rick Perry and Jon Huntsman are in New Hampshire. Rick Santorum and
Michele Bachmann are in Iowa, and Herman Cain is set to visit Michigan and Ohio.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bachmann hits on immigration in S. Fla ;
 She seeks Latino support but calls for massive deportations.

BYLINE: By ANDREW ABRAMSON Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


Michele Bachmann made a surprise campaign swing Thursday through South Florida,
where the GOP presidential contender said she believed her stances would "bring
Latino voters in."

But after the news conference, some political observers in her own party weren't
so sure.

Bachmann, speaking at a news conference at the Westin Fort Lauderdale hotel
Thursday evening before a private Boca Raton fundraiser, called for massive
deportation of illegal immigrants, for English to be designated the official
language of the federal government, and for an end to automatic citizenship for
babies born on American soil.

"When people are intercepted here illegally, they need to come within the
confines of the law," Bachmann said. "If that means deportation, we need to have
deportation."

Illegal immigration costs the United States $113 billion a year, which "works
out to about $1,000 per household in South Florida," she said.

Sid Dinerstein, chairman of Palm Beach County's Republican Party, said even
conservative Hispanics and many other GOP members aren't in favor of massive
deportation. "Nobody wants people rounded up," Dinerstein said.

Ana Navarro, a South Florida GOP consultant and fundraiser, said Bachmann is
trying to make a last-ditch play to the far right of the Republican Party, not
targeting Florida Hispanic voters.

"I think she's trying to become a blip on the radar again, and she's saying
things in hope that it gets her some attention," Navarro said.

Bachmann, who several months ago was a rising star in the party, is polling at 1
percent in Florida, in the latest American Research Group poll. While Navarro
said she hasn't seen any polling that separates out Hispanic voters, she
believes the Hispanic community is in line with the rest of the Republican
voters in the state, who lately are leaning heavily toward Newt Gingrich.

Recent polls had Gingrich as a runaway frontrunner in Florida, up more than 20
points on Mitt Romney.

Bachmann bashed Gingrich several times on Thursday. She called him soft on
immigration, saying he promotes amnesty for illegal immigrants. This came a day
after Gingrich called Bachmann "factually challenged," after she pointed to an
8-year-old editorial in the Wall Street Journal in which Gingrich supported a
path to permanent residency for illegal workers.

Gingrich responded that he wasn't supporting blanket amnesty, but on Thursday
Bachmann said Gingrich has a "memory challenge."

Bachmann predicted that the Iowa caucuses, just a month away, will be the
"cannon shot that changes the world" as she is propelled back into the race.

~ andrew_abramson@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Broken Sound general manager appreciates good life of Boca

BYLINE: By LINDAHAASE Special To Neighborhood Post

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Pg. 4N

LENGTH: 493 words


John Crean won the lottery, but he didn't get one penny. He got something more
precious: a green card and the chance to emigrate from County Roscommon,
Ireland, to the United States.

"This is the land of great opportunity. You can do anything in this country, if
you put your mind to it," says Crean, who touched American soil with his wife,
Rachel, in 1990, after being chosen in the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program.

Known as the visa lottery, the program offers immigrant visas by random
selection to people from countries with low rates of immigration to the U.S.

The 45-year-old, now CEO/general manager of Broken Sound Club in Boca Raton, has
found his niche here.

"Having a position like this at my age is very prestigious. I wouldn't have been
able to do this in Ireland," says Crean, previously the manager at The
Muttontown Club in East Norwich, N.Y.

Crean, who has been at the helm of Broken Sound since 2003, is passionate about
protecting the environment -- and has initiated many changes at the 1,600-home
community including installing solar collectors to generate hot water in water
heaters and building a composting plant. The plant turns food waste and
landscape trimmings into compost for the golf courses, which reduces the amount
of water and fertilizer needed.

In February, the club became the first golf facility in Florida -- and the
second in the United States -- to be given the GEO Certified award, an
international sustainability assurance from the Golf Environment Organization.

"If a gated community can save dollars and have a positive effect on the
community ... that can expand," says Crean, who was recently designated a
Certified Chief Executive and awarded membership in the Honor Society of the
Club Managers Association of America.

The club will host the 12th Annual Allianz Championship on Feb. 6-12, and this
year it plans to be the country's first "zero-waste" golf tournament.

"There's a lot of work involved in this, but it's just one more way we can
protect the environment," he said.

~neighborhood@pbpost.com

What are your hobbies?

'Gardening, growing vegetables, orchids and roses, golfing, jogging and
cycling.'

Who is your hero?

'Bill Clinton. I think he did a wonderful job for this country, and I admire
what he was able to accomplish.'

What are your plans for the future?

'To make sure Broken Sound is operating at full efficiency. I also want to play
a greater role in the city of Boca. We have a wonderful city, and we need to
protect it and bring businesses here. I always try to raise the bar, to tell
people that when they live in a city they need to promote it. We can't just be
this entity behind walls. We need to be players within the city, helping it
out.'

What's the best part about living in Florida?

'You don't need to leave here to go on vacation. We have great weather and a
great atmosphere. In Ireland, there are about 300 days of rain a year, here
there are 300 days of sunshine. It's a destination place.'

Q&A

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MEET YOUR NEIGHBOR: John Crean, 45  Southern Palm Beach County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Teen who lost family in I-75 crash won't be deported, authorities say

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 711 words


The horrific pileup on fog- and smoke-shrouded I-75 near Gainesville early
Sunday left 15-year-old Lidiane Carmo of Brazil an orphan.

Her parents, Jose and Adriana, and 17-year-old sister, Leticia, were among 11
people killed in the crush of cars and tractor-trailers. Lidiane, who underwent
surgery after suffering broken bones and internal injuries, is expected to
survive.

The family lived in suburban Atlanta, where Jose was a pastor at a small church.
They were on their way back from a church event in Florida.

The Carmos came to the United States 12 years ago, but their visas had long
since expired and they were in the country illegally. In the hours after the
accident, members of their congregation voiced fears that after Lidiane's
recovery, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents might try to deport her to
Brazil. But ICE officials quickly quashed that speculation.

"Our thoughts and prayers" are with Lidiane "as she deals with the tragic loss
of her family," ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez said in Washington. "Reports of
her facing deportation are completely false."

One federal official put it more concisely: "ICE has no interest in her case."

Deportation guidelines allow for humanitarian exceptions to normal deportation
proceedings. Boynton Beach immigration attorney Richard Hujber recalled one
famous case.

"After 9/11, there were people who had family members killed in the attacks and
those people could have been deported," but authorities granted them "deferred
status," Hujber said.

"Immigration officials will take humanitarian concerns into account," he said.

He also spoke of his own undocumented client, who was recently picked up by
immigration officials. Not long before, the man had fallen 20 feet from a ladder
at his job, sending him to the hospital. He was still taking medications and
seeing doctors for his injuries, Hujber said.

"They (immigration officials) will take that into account," Hujber said. "My
client was released from detention within 24 hours. Of course, in his case they
might have been worried about liability, too. They don't have the medical
facilities to treat someone like that."

The man is still in deportation proceedings but is living at home.

Kristen Williamson, a spokeswoman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a leading voice for tougher immigration enforcement, said her
organization acknowledges the need for humanitarian exceptions in some cases.

"Given what we know of this case, this young woman is obviously deserving," she
said of Lidiane Carmo. "But these exceptions should be given on a case-by-case
basis. They shouldn't apply to large groups of people."

In particular, Williamson voiced opposition to the DREAM Act, which would allow
undocumented young people who were brought to the U.S. as minors and have
graduated from high school to qualify for legal status by finishing two years or
college or military service. The law would cover thousands of people in the U.S.

Under the Obama administration, ICE has adopted a policy in which undocumented
immigrants who have been in the country for many years without legal trouble are
not targeted. Instead, ICE agents focus on illegal immigrants who have committed
crimes other than immigration infractions, people who were deported and then
re-entered the U.S., and people who recently arrived in the country without
proper documents.

ICE Director John Morton has encouraged immigration prosecutors to employ
"prosecutorial discretion" in deciding who is earmarked for deportation.

People who are seriously ill, whose spouse is seriously ill or who are caring
for a person who is seriously ill are among those who should be considered for
deferred action, Morton said.

Cheryl Little, executive director of Americans for Immigrant Justice in Miami,
which has represented undocumented immigrants throughout South Florida, said
immigration prosecutors also defer deportation proceedings for victims of
certain crimes, such as domestic abuse and human trafficking, as long as the
victims cooperate with law enforcement in helping to bring the guilty to
justice.

As for the case of Lidiane Carmo, Little said she was glad to hear ICE was using
its humanitarian option. "But it's the exception, not the rule," she said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VALENTINE'S DAY GIFT ;
 For a Colombian couple, citizenship is a sweetheart deal.

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA SELTZER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: ROYAL PALM BEACH


-- Laura and Orlando Pardo met almost 30 years ago in Bogota, Colombia. Not long
after, the Pardos wanted to live in a safe, quiet place, so they came to West
Palm Beach.

That was years ago. Today, on Valentine's Day, they have something special to
celebrate together: They are now U.S. citizens.

"It's like a gift pretty much," said their 25-year-old son, Jhonattan Pardo, at
a naturalization ceremony Monday morning.

The Pardos were among 90 people who gathered Monday at U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services offices on Belvedere Road, where they officially became
citizens.

"In celebration of Valentine's Day, we wanted to keep families together," said
immigration services officer Tonia Malaniak. "That's what U.S. immigration is
all about."

During Monday's ceremony, people from 32 countries -- including Argentina,
China, Haiti, Jordan and Poland -- became citizens. They waved their hand-held
American flags, sang God Bless America and wiped away tears of joy.

"It's a great day for our family," said Orlando Pardo, 48, who met his wife
while working in a bakery. "We have been waiting for this moment for 10 years."

Jhonattan, their oldest son, said he is proud to live here. A senior at Florida
Atlantic University, he plans on working in mechanical engineering after
graduation.

His 16-year-old brother, Johan, is a freshman at Suncoast High School in Riviera
Beach.

The Pardos were joined by another couple from Colombia, Tomasa and Orlando
Vasquez.

The Vasquezes, who have been married 65 years and came to the U.S. in 1987, have
10 children, 27 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.

~ alexandra_seltzer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rubio still undocumented

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Editorial, Thursday, April 12

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 440 words


We would like to report that there is hope in Washington for even a tiny
compromise on immigration. We would like to report that the compromise comes
from Florida's junior senator. But we can't report any of that because, for all
the talk about a compromise from Sen. Marco Rubio, we have little idea of what
that compromise would be.

For roughly the past two weeks, Sen. Rubio has talked about offering a
Republican version of the Development, Relief and Education of Minors (Dream)
Act, which passed the House during the lame-duck session of December 2010 but
got only 55 of the necessary 60 votes in the Senate to end a filibuster. The
Dream Act would have conferred Permanent Resident status on undocumented minors
who met certain conditions and served two years in the military. Permanent
residents can apply for citizenship.

Sen. Rubio has called the Dream Act "amnesty." He's wrong. Nothing that imposes
conditions can be "amnesty." But as his party's Hispanic star, from a state
whose Hispanic voters could tip the presidential election, Sen. Rubio can't
sidestep immigration as he did in 2011 while delivering hyped speeches on many
other major issues.

Rubio aide Alex Conant said that, like the Dream Act, Sen. Rubio's legislation
would apply to young people who are undocumented "through no fault of their own"
and enter the armed forces or college. Unlike the Dream Act, it would not
provide a path to citizenship. Instead, the legislation would provide "legal
status" in the form of a "work visa" to those who met the conditions.

As Mr. Conant acknowledged, however, there is no bill yet. "We are actively
working," he said. When might there be a bill? "Soon." What does "soon" mean?
"In the next few weeks or months." So, are we talking more weeks or months? "We
are hoping for weeks." And what about that visa? Would it be one that exists?
Would it be a new type of work visa? Would it last indefinitely, or at least
until Congress passed follow-up legislation to address those holding it? "Those
are the sorts of details we are still working on."

It's mid-April. The Senate takes off most of August. Nothing big gets done after
Labor Day in election years. Yet Sen. Rubio complained to National Review that
"Democrats and the left ... don't want to solve this issue; they want this issue
to remain out there because they want to use it as a political tool."

In fact, Senate Republicans have been the main impediments to immigration
reform, even when President Bush finally pushed the issue. To make his case,
Sen. Rubio will have to dream up something more than a talking point.

-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEWSIMMIGRATION REFORMOPINION: THE DEBATE STARTS HERE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rubio crafting immigrant bill ;
 The senator's Dream Act variation pushes visas instead of citizenship.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Attempts to pass the Dream Act have become a recurring dream.

The legislation, which would give undocumented young people brought here before
age 16 and educated in the U.S. a path to legal status, has bounced around
Congress for more than a decade. It has drawn Democratic and Republican support,
but never quite enough.

The last attempt, pushed by Democrats in 2010, fell five votes short of the 60
needed in the Senate.

But now freshman Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., is discussing an approach he says
might win majority support.

Presumptive GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who is trailing President
Obama badly in national polls of Hispanic voters -- and is reportedly
considering Rubio as a running mate -- also may have interest in its success.

But the Republican-controlled House looks extremely unlikely to be supportive,
and some immigrant advocates say it may all have to do with election-year
politics.

"I've seen these kids disappointed before and it definitely makes me wary," said
attorney Adey Fisseha of the National Immigration Law Center in Washington.

Critics of the Dream Act, in any form, have called it amnesty for illegal
immigrants and have said such amnesty would only encourage more undocumented
people to come to the U.S. "Dream" is short for Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors.

Although Rubio has not yet written a bill, the version he has discussed contains
a major difference from the Dream Act as it stands: Beneficiaries would be
eligible for non-immigrant visas that would allow them to stay in the country
legally and work. But those visas would not be a path to permanent residence or
citizenship.

"There is a difference between citizenship and legalization," Rubio said. "You
can legalize someone's status in this country with a significant amount of
certainty about their future without placing them on a path toward citizenship.
And I think that is something that we can find consensus on."

He said his problem with the existing version of the Dream Act is one key facet.

"It provides for chain migration," Rubio said. "Once a kid becomes a citizen or
a legal resident and then a citizen, they can now act as an anchor to bring in
their entire family through the process. And that means that the Dream Act is
not limited to the kids. It could be expanded to millions of people, which is
problematic."

The senator said there are worthy candidates. He pointed to the case of Daniela
Pelaez, 18, valedictorian at North Miami Beach High School, who this year was
ordered deported. Pelaez, born in Colombia, was 4 when she arrived in the U.S.
on her mother's tourist visa. She wants to study molecular biology in college in
the U.S.

After many people, including Cuban-American members of Congress from South
Florida, objected to her pending deportation, immigration authorities gave her a
two-year delay of removal.

"I think people can look at that and say, 'These kids didn't do anything wrong.
Their parents brought them here. Let's figure out a way for them to be legalized
in this country so they can contribute to our future,'" Rubio said. "Likewise,
kids that want to serve in the armed forces."

Rubio's stance, and news reports that other Republican members of Congress may
introduce their own versions of the Dream Act, have brought the lawmakers strong
opposition from a traditional ally: the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, the most powerful conservative immigration-related group in the U.S.

"Besides being an inept political stunt that is unlikely to gain them much
traction among Latino voters, the Dream Act 2.0 is based on the same flawed
premises that make the Democrats' Dream Act a bad idea," federation President
Dan Stein said. "Pandering to Latino voters with the Dream Act 2.0 not only
won't impress voters who are committed to amnesty for illegal aliens, but would
only exacerbate the problem of illegal immigration."

Rubio also drew the ire of the Tequila Party, a national Hispanic group that
called his plan "a divisive tactic" that would turn beneficiaries into a
permanent underclass.

"The Tequila Party will not stand and allow this issue to be used as a continued
political football," the group said, demanding that Rubio back the original
Dream Act or nothing at all.

That version says would-be beneficiaries -- often called Dreamers -- who spend
two years in college or the military, and have no serious legal problems, can
eventually attain citizenship.

But Rubio also has drawn support in South Florida.

"Rubio has the right idea," said Cheryl Little, executive director of Americans
for Immigrant Justice, based in Miami.

"Clearly, provisional status granted by the Department of Homeland Security
would not be the whole enchilada for Dreamers or the country," she said. "But it
is a practical solution until Dreamers are afforded a path to legalization that
leads to citizenship, full assimilation, equal protection under law and the
ability to maximize their potential contributions to this country."

"Here's even better news," Little said. "The type of limited status he envisions
doesn't have to be passed by Congress and signed into law by the president. DHS
already has the discretionary power to grant potential Dreamers temporary legal
status that can be renewed and allows them to work and drive legally."

Another supporter is Dream Act activist Manuel Guerra of Indiantown.

"This new version of Rubio's is the only new thing out there that will help us,"
Guerra said. "The Democrats didn't get it done. Let's see what the Republicans
can do."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 13, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration stance keeps Hispanics wary of Romney

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Republican Party's attempt to woo Hispanic voters this election year has so
far been a rough ride. And last week that journey hit another speed bump.

When Bettina Inclan, the Republican National Committee official in charge of
Hispanic outreach, was asked about GOP presidential front-runner Mitt Romney's
hard-line position on immigration enforcement and how it might play with the
average Hispanic voter, she became tongue-tied.

"I think as a candidate, to my understanding, that he's still deciding what his
position on immigration is," Inclan said. "So I can't talk about what his
proposal's going to be, because I don't know what Romney exactly -- he's talked
about different issues."

During GOP primaries, where many voters were staunch conservatives, Romney said
the U.S. needed to enforce its laws to the point that illegal immigrants
"self-deport" because they can no longer work and support themselves here. That
angered many Hispanics, leaving Inclan a hard job.

But now that Romney appears to have the nomination sewn up, questions arise:
Will he soften his stance? And whether he does or not, how important will the
immigration issue be? It resonates with Hispanic voters, especially in Florida,
which Romney almost certainly must win to become president.

"He was duking it out in the primaries and said those things," said Ana Navarro
of Miami, a longtime GOP consultant. "Now he's going to have to make a big
effort, especially in Florida, and try to win some of those people back."

Romney's critics on the immigration issue say Inclan may not know what his
position is, but Hispanic voters do. They point to a recent Pew Research Center
poll that shows President Obama leading Romney 67 percent to 27 percent among
registered Hispanic voters nationwide.

A specific factor contributing to those bad numbers is that Romney opposes the
Dream Act, which would grant a path to citizenship for undocumented young people
brought here before they turned 16. Hispanics overwhelmingly support that
legislation. And when Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, a prospective vice presidential
nominee, proposed a more modest version of the Dream Act, Romney didn't reject
it, but didn't embrace it either.

Why Florida matters

In Florida, Obama leads Romney 52 percent to 37 percent among Hispanic voters,
according to an April Public Opinion poll. While the spread may be less than
that nationwide, the size of the Florida Hispanic vote and the fact that Florida
is the most populous swing state, with 29 electoral votes, make the Florida
numbers potentially more important.

"California has a very large portion of the Hispanic voters, but Romney was
never going to win California anyway, so what Hispanics there think of him
really doesn't matter," said Joseph Uscinski, a University of Miami political
scientist. "Here in Florida it's a different matter."

According to the Florida Division of Elections, as of Jan. 31, of the 11.2
million registered voters in Florida, 1,473,920 were Hispanic, or 13.1 percent.
Of those, 452,619 were registered as Republicans and 564,513 Democrats.

Obama beat GOP hopeful John McCain 67 percent to 31 percent among Hispanics
nationally in 2008, and 57 percent to 43 percent in Florida. Just how the vote
this time might be influenced by differences in immigration policy is hard to
know. National polls indicate that Hispanics name the economy as their primary
concern, followed by education and health care. Immigration is down the list.

In addition, the majority of Florida Hispanic voters are either Cubans, who
automatically have legal residence when they arrive in the U.S., or Puerto
Ricans, who are U.S. citizens by birth. So those groups don't have immigration
issues of their own.

"Given that, the whole immigration issue just doesn't play as strongly in
Florida as it does among Hispanics in some other states," said University of
Florida political scientist Daniel Smith.

But that doesn't mean Florida Hispanics don't care about the immigration issue
at all.

"The polls show that Hispanics in general, even those here legally, don't like
what they consider anti-immigrant rhetoric," said UM political scientist Jorge
Gonzalez. "They consider it a broad swipe at all Hispanics."

Romney's tactical options

Democrats have made inroads among Cuban voters, especially younger voters in
recent years, but Cubans traditionally vote Republican by wide margins in
presidential elections and are expected to do so this time. Smith says he sees
little threat of erosion there over the immigration issue.

"You might have a small number sensitive to the issue thinking of staying home,
but they could also say, 'Romney is the lesser of the two evils, so I'll vote
for him,'" Smith said.

As for other Florida Hispanics, Navarro admits Romney is in a hole over his
immigration stance. She says when he is forced to refer to it, he will have to
take a two-pronged approach.

"On immigration policy, I don't think he can change the basic position he took
in the primaries," Navarro said. "He doesn't have wiggle room. To keep his base
he needs to stay anti-amnesty and pro-border security. That said, he certainly
can make some of his answers more nuanced and soften his tone on the issue."

But Navarro says Romney also has to use a second tactic.

"When it comes to Barack Obama, Romney has to attack," she said. "Obama has his
own vulnerabilities on the issue. He promised immigration reform in his first
term and didn't keep that promise. Deportations have gone up. Hispanics are
disillusioned with him on that. I think Romney can get somewhere in trying to
neutralize the issue that way."

But most political observers agree that Romney, in dealing with Hispanics, must
try to get off immigration quickly and go to his core issue -- the economy.

"Romney can chip away at Obama's formidable Hispanic following by focusing on
jobs," a FoxNews.com editorial said last week. Unemployment among Hispanics is
10.8 percent, compared with 8.1 percent for the general population.

"Hispanics have been disproportionately affected by the bad economy," Navarro
said. She said Romney's theme for Hispanics needs to be a play on an old Bill
Clinton quip: "It's the economy, stupid."

"Romney needs to tell them, 'It's the economy and Hispanics are not stupid,'"
Navarro said. In other words, they should not be distracted by the immigration
issue.

Should he blend issues?

Gonzalez believes Romney will not be allowed to sidestep his hard stance on
immigration, but could try to meld the immigration and economic issues.

"He might take the approach that he wants to make sure that Hispanics who are
U.S. citizens have jobs and some of those jobs are being lost to those
undocumented immigrants," Gonzalez said. "Maybe he can try to use that to pull
enough Puerto Ricans up in the I-4 corridor away from the Democrats to make a
difference."

But Smith says that on the economics issue Romney could have a tricky time with
many of Florida's non-Cuban Hispanics -- most of whom are Democrats -- given his
personal fortune.

"The politics of Latin America is all about class warfare," he said. "Getting
Hispanic middle-class and working-class voters to believe that Romney's economic
plans will benefit them, and not simply the rich, could be a tough sell."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST ON POLITICS Presidential race Latinos of voting age Florida 4.4
million Virginia 2.0 million Arizona 1.5 million Colorado 1.4 million Source:
U.S. Census Bureau

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 28, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Party boss ignored scam, Latinos say ;
 Democrat Siegel says the matter's out of his hands.

BYLINE: John Lantigua

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1328 words


By John Lantigua

Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

In the midst of a crucial election year, prominent Palm Beach County Hispanic
Democrats are charging the county party chairman with shoddy leadership and with
abandoning the interests of the Latino community.

The Hispanic leaders say Chairman Mark Alan Siegel failed to act after Latin
American immigrants were charged money by another party official for help with
their immigration cases -- help, they say, many of the immigrants never got.

The party official whose actions are in question is Clarence Shahid Freeman,
president of the City of Boynton Beach Democratic Club and a member of the
countywide Democratic Executive Committee. Freeman also served until recently as
an officer of the Brazilian American Democratic Club in the county.

On April 18, four Hispanic party leaders -- including two members of the
Democratic Executive Committee, Isidro Mejia and Peter Camacho -- wrote Siegel a
letter urging that Freeman be removed from the DEC. State Democratic Party
Committeeman and DEC member John Ramos' name was also on the letter and,
although he didn't help draft it, he later said he agreed with its principal
points.

"(Freeman) has been charging fees to immigrants, without being a licensed
attorney in any state or accredited by the Board of Immigration Appeals and has
done so under the guise of the Brazilian Democratic Club and/or Democratic
Party," the letter stated.

Freeman, in an emailed response to The Palm Beach Post, denied any wrongdoing.
"I have never stolen anything from anyone," Freeman said, "nor did I ever do
business as an attorney."

He refused to discuss his work further with The Post, but reviews of emails,
some of them Freeman's, and interviews with immigrants and attorneys indicate
Freeman largely offered to help immigrants get their deportation dates delayed
and have immigration authorities remove electronic monitoring devices they use
to track immigrants they believe may flee.

A call for action

The letter from the Hispanic leaders said numerous immigrants complained to them
about Freeman taking money but not keeping appointments or returning phone calls
and not achieving results.

The four men also said that Siegel and Ira Raab, a former New York State Supreme
Court judge who is parliamentarian for the county Democratic Party, had received
emails and written reports on Freeman's activities and responded only that
Freeman's immigration activities had nothing to do with the party.

But the Hispanic leaders said that since it was Siegel who had recommended
Freeman to the Brazilian American Democratic Club, Siegel did have the
responsibility to resolve the issue. The club was formed late last year and
Freeman was named treasurer in February. The Hispanic leaders say it was through
the club that he encountered most the immigrants he later received fees from.

The four also cited a report prepared by Robin Blanchard, an officer of the
Brazilian American Democratic Club, in which she recommended that hundreds of
dollars be returned to those who had given money to Freeman.

In the letter, the Hispanic leaders said they feared a "serious matter was
simply going to be swept under the rug." They said they had considered resigning
from the DEC.

They decided not to but still demand action.

"We stand firm as Latino Democratic leaders that what was done under the name of
the Democratic Party by Mr. Shahid Freeman was wrong and we require immediate
action," the letter said.

Hugo Mendez, vice president of the Brazilian Club and the fourth leader to sign
the letter, said he had spoken to Siegel about the issue twice. But by mid-May,
when the four men spoke to The Palm Beach Post, they said Siegel had not acted.

"This is a hot-button issue," Ramos said. "It should have been on his radar."

Mejia agreed. "They are trying to wash their hands of it so that nothing comes
back at them. People are trying to cover up what happened."

Camacho said he was especially angry because he had sent people seeking
immigration advice to Freeman.

"But I didn't know he was charging people," Camacho said. "We have done this
kind of work for years and never charged people. And now Ira Raab and Mark Alan
Siegel are defending him and not defending the Brazilian and Hispanic
communities. This is not fair. Siegel has to go. He has to be voted out. They
both have to go," he said, speaking also of Raab.

'Not a party matter'

In an interview with The Post, Siegel defended Freeman as "someone who has done
a lot of good work for the party." He said Freeman had been able to help some
immigrants he took fees from.

Siegel also said that Freeman can't simply be removed from the DEC. It takes a
formal procedure and a vote of the entire body.

As for Freeman's collecting of fees for immigration consultations, Siegel said
he had turned that over to Raab, the former judge, and Raab had ruled that "it
was not a party matter. It was a matter between Shahid and the people who say he
owes them money."

But individuals who said they gave money to Freeman for help with their
immigration counseling showed a business card bearing his name and a logo for
the Brazilian American Democratic Club. They said Freeman had given it to them.
Siegel was shown a copy of the card by The Palm Beach Post and was surprised.

"We didn't approve that," Siegel said. "That's wrong."

But he said there is still nothing he can do to force Freeman to return money.
In a March 8 email to Camacho, Freeman made his position on that clear:

"Understand one thing for sure," Freeman wrote: "I am not giving anyone any
money back."

It is not clear how much money is involved because it is not known how many
people paid Freeman fees. But a document prepared by Blanchard reported $7,300
paid to Freeman by various Brazilian families, most of whom wanted their money
back. A Colombian family that said it paid Freeman $1,250 is also demanding the
money be returned.

Siegel said he and Raab have told Freeman he should "respond to anyone who says
they are owed money," although he stopped short of demanding Freeman return the
money.

"We are not the courts and we are not the police," Siegel said. "I can't hold
Shahid Freeman upside down and shake money out of him."

Siegel recommended that people who felt cheated go to the state attorney and
file charges. But Camacho said undocumented people are unlikely to go to the
authorities to press fraud charges, out of fear. He said the party should be
held responsible.

"The DEC should pay that money back," he said. "Siegel should have written to
all the other Democratic clubs and told them not to do business with Shahid."

Expressing regret

Camacho, who according to Siegel has an important campaign position in heavily
Hispanic zones in the county, said the incident has led him to consider changing
his registration to independent.

"But I won't do that now," he said. "The party needs me." He reiterated his
demand that Siegel leave the chairmanship.

Mejia, president of the Hispanic Democratic Caucus, said he also lost confidence
in Siegel, but said Siegel's status as vice chairman of the state party would
make it difficult to remove him. Ramos said he was opposed to trying to remove
Siegel, given the upcoming election. "We don't need that kind of trouble now,"
he said.

Siegel said people who want him out as chairman will have their chance. He is up
for re-election this year. He expressed regret about the recent events.

"Anything that interferes with our ability to build a campaign structure and get
out the vote is a serious matter," he said. "But I don't care if they like me,
as long at they go out and do their jobs in the campaign. And I'm sure they
won't undermine the campaign just to get back at me. They are good Democrats,
too good for that."

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

SECOND OF TWO PARTS

Sunday: A complaint of defrauding immigrants is filed against a prominent Palm
Beach County Democratic Party official.

Today: Hispanic leaders say party chairman failed to act after being informed.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Post EXCLUSIVE  Immigration COMPLAINT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 8, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

County Democratic Party official removed ;
 He is accused of false offers to aid immigrants.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 696 words


Palm Beach County Democratic Party leaders said Thursday night that a
controversial party official has been removed from his position in the current
campaign and they are working on changes in party bylaws that will make it
easier to remove members of the Democratic Executive Committee.

The official in question is Clarence Shahid Freeman. He is a member of the
executive board and president of the Boynton Beach Democratic Club, and he also
served for a time earlier this year as an official of the new Brazilian American
Democratic Club.

Hispanic Democratic Party leaders have accused Freeman of collecting money from
Latin American immigrants in exchange for helping them in their dealings with
immigration authorities. Freeman is not an attorney and apparently did not claim
to be an attorney. But according to a complaint filed with the Florida Bar, he
took fees ranging from $100 and $1,250 from families saying the money was going
to attorneys for help with immigration matters. The attorneys who filed the
complaint say they did not receive the money.

In April, Hispanic party leaders asked that Freeman be expelled from the
executive board. Last month, those same Hispanic leaders charged county party
Chairman Mark Alan Siegel with ignoring their complaints against Freeman. One
member of the committee, Peter Camacho, called for Siegel to be removed as
chairman. Another, Isidro Mejia, said at the time that he had also lost faith in
Siegel's leadership.

They were both at the meeting Thursday at the Vista Center in suburban West Palm
Beach and disrupted the proceedings temporarily when they insisted on voicing
their concerns about the Freeman matter.

Mejia said Siegel had promised to answer the concerns of the Hispanic community,
but hadn't.

"We want to see it happen," Mejia called out from the crowd of about 200
participants, although he had not been called on to speak.

Camacho had come to the meeting with a Colombian family -- Javier Rincon, his
wife, Luz, and their three children -- who say they gave Freeman $1,250 for help
with their immigration case, but he did not help them. They have demanded their
money back and also documents they say Freeman still has.

Camacho had the Rincons stand up at the meeting. He then accused Siegel of
refusing to meet with them and other alleged victims of Freeman.

"You should have spoken to the victims," Camacho called out.

At that point, John Ramos, a member of the executive board, who had also voiced
his displeasure with Siegel's leadership on the issue, played the role of
peacemaker. He assured Camacho and Mejia that the board has agreed to reopen its
investigation into the Freeman matter and hear alleged victims.

"We want to hear from you," Ramos said to the Rincons.

One question raised by the Hispanic leaders is who should repay the money
Freeman took from his immigrant clients. Freeman said in an email to another
party official that he refuses to pay back the money. Camacho has demanded the
party pay it back because it was Siegel who sent Freeman to work with the
Brazilian club.

Siegel, on the advice of another board member, Ira Raab, a former New York State
Supreme Court judge, had previously said that the matter of money was between
Freeman and the alleged victims and that the immigrants should go to the police
if they felt they had been defrauded.

He also said the Hispanic leaders had tried to force the executive board to pay
back the money or they would make the matter public, which they eventually did.

Raab said Thursday he still believed the collected fees were not a party issue
and that the money should not be paid back by the party, but he said he would
withhold a final decision until he had heard all the alleged victims.

Alleged victims said Freeman used a Brazilian American Club business card in his
dealings, and Siegel said he was working on another change to party bylaws to
make that against the rules.

When asked about Freeman -- an African American -- no longer being part of a
committee to help get out the African American vote in the county in November,
Siegel said he and Freeman had agreed that Freeman should step aside.

Raab said Freeman was removed.

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  post on politicscounty democratic party

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

800,000 spared deportation ;
 Obama says those with no record can stay -- for now.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1213 words


Maria Lazcano, 18, was washing dishes in her parents' Fort Pierce home early
Friday when she heard a news report emanating from the television in the living
room that changed her life.

President Obama's administration decreed undocumented young people who would
have been covered by failed legislation known as the Dream Act will be allowed
to stay in the U.S. for the next two years without having to worry about
deportation. That permission will be renewable and they can also apply for work
permits.

The Dream Act -- which would offer legal status to individuals who were brought
to the U.S. before age 16, have lived here five years and who fit several other
criteria -- has never won enough votes in Congress despite several tries, the
last in 2010.

Obama had been under heavy pressure from Latino political leaders to provide
legal relief for "Dreamers," who immigrant advocates say could number from
800,000 to 1 million.

The change in policy is expected to help the president with the Latino vote in
November. Meanwhile, Republicans and organizations espousing strict enforcement
of immigration laws attacked the move as a political ploy that sidestepped
Congress and weakened the country's control of illegal immigration.

As for Lazcano, she was jubilant.

"I ran out of the kitchen to listen with my hands still full of soap,' she said.
"Oh my God, I was so, so happy when I heard that. This is incredible."

Lazcano arrived in the U.S. illegally with her Mexican parents when she 7. She
studied in local schools and graduated with honors last year from Fort Pierce
Central High School. She said she won a full tuition scholarship to Indian River
State College for two years and University of Florida for two more years but
couldn't use those grants because she had no Social Security number.

Her work permit will give her that number and the scholarship, she said. She
wants to study education and says she may go on to law school, although that may
depend on what happens with the Dream Act down the road.

The directive was announced by Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano. The press release she issued specified that the action does not
provide a path to citizenship or the right to vote. It also said that candidates
can be no older than 30; have no felonies or serious misdemeanors on their
records; either be in school, have finished high school or been granted a GED or
be serving or have served honorably in the military.

"Our nation's immigration laws must be enforced in a firm and sensible manner,"
Napolitano said. "But they are not designed to be blindly enforced without
consideration given to the individual circumstances of each case. Nor are they
designed to remove productive young people to countries where they may not have
lived or even speak the language."

The Obama administration has deported 1.1 million people in three years, more
than any other administration. That and the fact he has not accomplished a
comprehensive immigration overhaul, which he promised in 2008, have annoyed many
Latino voters. While he leads presumptive GOP candidate Mitt Romney by 40 points
in polls of Latinos, some political activists have suggested that many Latino
voters might not vote in November, uninspired by Obama. The move Friday was
widely seen as a gesture to that voting bloc.

Obama addressed the issue at a news conference and said the young people covered
by the directive did nothing wrong themselves but were brought to the U.S. by
their parents.

"We are a better nation than one that expels innocent young kids," he said.

Undocumented children are guaranteed by U.S. law the right to a high school
education, but nothing beyond that. West Palm Beach immigration attorney Miriam
Acosta Castriz was elated at Friday's news because of the opportunity it offered
to some.

"I have so many clients who have graduated high school and want to go on to
college but haven't been able to," she said. "Some of these Dream Act kids are
salutatorians, valedictorians. They have so much to offer this country."

Another immigration attorney, Richard Hujber of Boynton Beach, noted that the
new policy would also allow those affected to get driver licenses. Since many
illegal immigrants run afoul of the law due to lack of licenses, that will be
important.

Meanwhile, some Republican members of Congress reacted angrily.

"President Obama and his administration once again have put partisan politics
and illegal immigrants ahead of the rule of law and the American people," said
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), a leading voice for
stricter enforcement of immigration law, called Obama's action "a brazen
usurpation of congressional authority."

"Over the past 10 years, Congress has repeatedly rejected the Dream Act," said
FAIR President Dan Stein. "Now, five months before the presidential election,
the Obama administration is unilaterally rewriting our immigration laws, defying
congressional authority and threatening our constitutional framework."

In the middle, as he has been this entire campaign season, was Sen. Marco Rubio,
R-Fla., who has been mentioned as a possible running mate for Romney. The
original draft of the Dream Act provided a path to citizenship, but Rubio has
proposed an alternative that would provide legal permission to stay, but not a
path to citizenship. He said Friday the new policy isn't the answer.

"There is broad support for the idea that we should figure out a way to help
kids who are undocumented through no fault of their own but there is also broad
consensus that it should be done in a way that does not encourage illegal
immigration in the future," he said. "Today's announcement will be welcome news
for many of these kids desperate for an answer, but it is a short-term answer to
a long-term problem. And by once again ignoring the Constitution and going
around Congress, this short-term policy will make it harder to find a balanced
and responsible long-term one."

Emiliano Rojas, 23, originally from Argentina, now living in Port St. Lucie, was
still happy. He came to the U.S. with his parents when he was 12 and graduated
high school in Miami-Dade County. Unable to attend college, he has been making a
living "under the table" decorating cakes. He is interested in studying both art
and economics in college.

"A while back I met a lady from the FAU campus up here," he said referring to
Florida Atlantic University. "She asked me if I didn't want to go to college but
I didn't want to tell her, 'Yes, I'd love to go but I'm illegal.'

"But this could change everything," he said. "I can't be happier than this."

Staff researcher Niels Heimeriks and The Associated Press contributed to this
story.

Who is eligible?

Must meet all these criteria:

Came to the United States under the age of 16.

Lived in the U.S. continuously for five years before Friday.

Currently in school, graduated from high school, have GED or served in the
military.

No felony or significant misdemeanor record.

Under the age of 30.

Also inside

$Where to go for more information, 11Awhere to learn more

More information available at:

www.uscis.gov

www.ice.gov

www.dhs.gov

USCIS' hotline at 1-800-375-5283 beginning Monday.

ICE's hotline at 1-888-351-4024 beginning Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  IMMIGRATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jeb Bush a centrist? ;
 As governor, he ran Florida from the right.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 396 words


Jeb Bush is not a moderate. As governor, he cut taxes on the rich. He pioneered
vouchers for religious schools and a clever way to support them with state
money. He consolidated control over judicial appointments to crack down on
"activist" judges. He claimed to be for limited government, but misused state
power by intervening in the Terri Schiavo case.

He didn't need to work with the few Democrats in the state Legislature and
rarely did.

If Mr. Bush sounds moderate now, it's because, as he notes himself, the
Republican Party has skidded so far to the right that's it's scraping the
guardrail. Mr. Bush made headlines this month. First, he said tax increases must
be part of any effective deficit-reduction package. Then he said his father and
Ronald Reagan would not have fit comfortably into today's rigid GOP.

What's Mr. Bush's motive? He could be trying to soften the perception that
Republicans are anti-immigrant. The Hispanic vote is important in Florida, and
Florida is a swing state. Mr. Bush has been particularly critical of his party's
fixation on controlling borders and deportation, to the exclusion of reasonable
visa programs that lead to legal, permanent residency. He says the party needs
"to change the tone" and take "a broader approach."

Mitt Romney has taken a harder line on immigration. Mr. Bush's endorsement of
Mr. Romney could be even more valuable because of Mr. Bush's recent knocks on
his own party's immigration policy.

Or, assuming he truly has no interest in being Mr. Romney's vice presidential
choice, Mr. Bush could be looking beyond 2012. He's not yet 60, and he's been
encouraged to run for just about every significant elected position since he
left office.

Of course, Mr. Bush's motive might simply have been to say what he thinks. His
father, George H.W. Bush, just turned 88 and actually did what Jeb Bush now
advocates: Cut the deficit through a bipartisan plan that includes tax
increases. Breaking his famous "Read my lips, no new taxes" pledge might have
cost the first President Bush his chance for reelection.

Jeb Bush says tax increases should be 10 percent of any deficit-reduction plan.
The political cooperation he advocates on immigration is narrow. Americans will
know the GOP's tea party tilt is over when the positions Mr. Bush has taken
recently no longer pass for moderation.

Jac Wilder VerSteeg

for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK?  TALK BACK!Will FPL get its rate
increase?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your
smartphone.OUR VIEWS  REPUBLICAN PARTY EXTREMISMTHE CARTOON VIEW

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

romney courts fla. latinos' ;
 He cites Hispanics' 11 percent unemployment rate.

BYLINE: By George Bennett Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1045 words


LAKE BUENA VISTA -- Mitt Romney acknowledged he's at odds with many Hispanics on
immigration and other issues, but he argued Thursday that Latinos have seen
their economic situation worsen and their votes taken for granted under
President Obama.

"Is the America of 11 percent Hispanic unemployment the America of our dreams?
We can do better," the presumptive Republican presidential nominee told an
audience of about 1,000 at the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials at Walt Disney World.

Obama is scheduled to speak at the same conference today. Obama carried the
Hispanic vote by roughly a 2-to-1 margin in 2008, and many Latinos applauded the
president's directive last week to lift the threat of deportation for about
800,000 younger illegal immigrants who were brought to the U.S. by their
parents.

Romney criticized the president for announcing a "stop-gap measure" in an
election year after not delivering comprehensive immigration reform in his first
31/2 years in office, which included two years when Democrats controlled both
houses of Congress.

But Romney offered only a few specifics on his own plans. Those include a path
to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who serve in the military,
encouraging highly educated immigrants to remain in the country and streamlining
immigration procedures to keep families together.

"Some people have asked if I will let stand the president's executive order. The
answer is that I will put in place my own long-term solution that will replace
and supersede the president's temporary measure," Romney said.

"As president, I won't settle for stop-gap measures. I will work with
Republicans and Democrats to build a long-term solution. I will prioritize
measures that strengthen legal immigration and make it more transparent and
easier. And I'm going to address the problem of illegal immigration in a civil
but resolute manner. We may not always agree, but when I make a promise to you,
I will keep it."

The Democrat-leaning audience received Romney politely. The crowd was noticeably
more enthusiastic about an hour later when another Republican, former Florida
Gov. Jeb Bush, spoke on education.

Bush, who gave portions of his remarks in Spanish, mentioned that he appeared
with Obama at an event at a Miami high school last year.

"I don't know about you, but when we find common ground, we shouldn't fight
anymore. We should move on and build on that success," Bush said to loud
applause. "Apparently one can get in trouble when they say these kinds of
things, but I happen to believe it's the American way."

Hispanics are a key segment of the electorate in Florida and other competitive
states such as Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico.

A Quinnipiac University poll of Florida voters released Thursday shows Obama
leading Romney by 46 percent to 42 percent, with Hispanic voters favoring Obama
by a 49 percent to 39 percent margin. The survey of Hispanic voters carried a
margin of error of plus or minus 9 percent, however, because of the relatively
small number of Hispanics sampled.

Hispanic voters nationally favor Obama by a 66 percent to 23 percent margin,
according to a poll this month by Latino Decisions. The opinion research firm's
co-founder, Matt Barreto, called Romney's speech a first step toward repairing
his image with Hispanics after taking a hard line against illegal immigration
during the Republican primaries.

Noting that an estimated 40 percent of Hispanics voted for former President
George W. Bush's reelection in 2004, Barreto said Romney has a chance to win
over some Latino voters.

"Because of the perceived harsh rhetoric on immigration, those people have been
moving away from the Republican camp. I think what this speech does is allow
(Romney) to start very slowly repairing that image and perhaps getting some
folks back on board," Barreto said.

But Barreto said Romney missed an opportunity by not responding more
specifically to Obama's directive.

Trey Martinez Fischer, a Democratic state lawmaker who heads the Mexican
American Legislative Caucus in Texas, blasted Romney for saying he'd work with
Congress on immigration when Republicans have resisted any reform that includes
a path to citizenship for those now in the country illegally.

"What makes us believe that Gov. Romney all of a sudden will change the frame in
a Congress that's controlled by leaders who would rather electrify a fence and
put immigrants in harm's way?" said Fischer, who said Obama was justified in
bypassing Congress with his immigration directive.

Although Romney devoted much of his remarks to immigration, he made it clear
that he wants the economy to be the top issue for Hispanics and other voters.

Unemployment has consistently been higher among Hispanics than the general
population.

Hispanic unemployment was 10 percent in January 2009, when Obama took office,
and reached 13.1 percent in November 2010.

It got as low as 10.3 percent in March this year, but climbed to 11 percent in
May, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The overall unemployment rate was 7.8 percent when Obama took office.

It has been above 8 percent for 40 consecutive months, including a high of 10
percent in October 2009. The jobless rate stood at 8.2 percent last month.

"Hispanics have been hit disproportionately hard," Romney said in his speech.

He said Obama had inherited a bad economy but faulted the president for not
taking steps to spur a more robust recovery.

"I believe that he's taking your vote for granted," Romney said of Obama.

"I come here today with a very simple message: You do have an alternative and
your vote should be respected and your voice is more important now than ever
before."

The growing importance of the Hispanic vote was emphasized at the conference.

"As a whole we now approach the first election that marks a time in history in
our census that we have hit 50 million Latinos in this country," said National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials President Sylvia Harris, a
commissioner from Harris County, Texas.

"And with those numbers, campaigns, candidates and political parties know that
the way to the White House, the way to the Capitol House, the way to city hall
is not doable and will not succeed without the Latino vote."

george_bennett@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST on politics  presidential raceAlso inside  $Romney camp denies
telling Gov. Rick Scott to quit boasting about Florida job growth.6A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Young immigrants urged to wait before seeking reprieve ;
 Lawyers warn of perils before rules are written.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 966 words


Immigration activists are warning young, undocumented immigrants who could
benefit from the Obama administration's new policy on deferred deportations that
they should watch out for attorneys and notaries eager to take their money and
who could harm their chances of staying in the country.

On June 15, the administration announced that young immigrants who would be
covered by a proposed law called the Dream Act could apply for "deferred action"
and be assured of the right to stay in the U.S. for two years and apply for work
permits. Those permissions could later be renewed.

The Dream Act, which has been before Congress for about a decade but never
passed, would cover people who arrived in the country before age 16 and are no
older than 30; have spent at least five consecutive years here; and have a high
school diploma or equivalency certificate, are in the military or are military
veterans. The directive will affect an estimated 800,000 people, including
thousands in South Florida.

At the time of the announcement, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
said the government would begin accepting applications in about 60 days,
approximately mid-August. Local immigration attorneys say they are getting many
calls from people interested in applying.

"But we don't have the information, the regulations, yet," said attorney Richard
Hujber of Boynton Beach. "I'm telling people to wait at least a month and then
get back to me. Meantime, I'm advising them to gather all the documentation they
will need to show."

That includes high school transcripts and diplomas or GED certificates, military
records, proof of continuous residency, and clearance letters from law
enforcement authorities indicating their records are clear.

West Palm Beach attorney Aileen Josephs is telling callers to do the same.

"I'm also telling them to save their money," she said. "The application for the
work permit costs $380 and the fingerprints cost $80." She said there may be
other government fees plus the attorney fee.

Josephs said she and attorney Cynthia Arrevalo of Aventura will conduct an
information session on the new policy Thursday to tell would-be applicants what
is known so far and to warn them against applying early. The session is
scheduled for 9:30 to 10:30 a.m. at the suburban Lake Worth campus of Palm Beach
State College at 4200 Congress Ave. Those who are interested should RSVP at
(561) 868-3973.

Josephs warned that people who have one or more felonies on their criminal
records or even a serious misdemeanor, such as a DUI, stand a good chance of
being denied.

"And then the immigration authorities would know where you are and come and
deport you," she said.

Josephs and other immigrant advocates said it is important when the time comes
that would-be applicants go to competent private immigration attorneys or
immigrant advocacy groups. People who know the regulations can help them decide
whether to apply.

In the past, immigrants have paid fees to notaries to have immigration paperwork
filled out, especially asylum applications. Since the notaries did not follow up
on the cases, as attorneys are expected to do, the applicants often missed court
dates, ran afoul of immigration authorities and ended up being deported.

Immigrant advocates also are worried that eager applicants will go to
unqualified attorneys who will take their money and either file applications
before they will do any good or make mistakes that will lead to the applications
being denied.

"We're all worried about that," said Susana Barciela, spokeswoman for Americans
for Immigrant Justice, a Miami-based organization that has represented
undocumented immigrants throughout South Florida.

One concern raised by some would-be applicants is what might happen after the
November elections. Presumptive GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney took a
strong stand for strict enforcement of immigration laws early in his campaign.
That has made some young immigrants worry that he may rescind the Obama
administration policy and they might then be vulnerable to deportation. For some
who want to apply for their deferred action as soon as possible and enter
college this fall, that could be an especially worrisome issue.

But David Leopold, a member of the executive committee of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said he believes there is little chance Romney
would rescind it.

Leopold said Romney has softened his stance of late. His criticism of the
administration's move was that the new policy provided only temporary relief for
young immigrants, not a permanent solution. He didn't oppose the policy in
principle.

"Technically, yes, he could rescind it because it's not a law passed by
Congress," Leopold said. "But that doesn't jibe with his recent position. And
politically speaking, I doubt he would be able to rescind it. It would be a
cruel thing to do and he would risk the wrath of the Latino community."

john_lantigua@pbpost.com

information from u.s. agency

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has issued an advisory regarding the
new Dream Act directive. The agency is not yet accepting requests for deferred
action through this process. Until then, it advises:

Visit www.uscis.gov to learn more about the eligibility criteria and to find the
latest updates.

Contact CIS for more information: (800) 375-5283.

Contact Immigration and Customs Enforcement at (888) 351-4024 if you are in
deportation proceedings and meet the criteria outlined in the new policy.

Visit www.uscis.gov/avoidscams to learn how to avoid an immigration scam.

Do not pay people who claim they can request deferred action on your behalf or
apply for employment authorization through this new process before CIS announces
an implementation date.

Do not send an application seeking work authorization related to this process.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  immigration Information on federal directive $How to
getupdates from U.S.immigration authorities. 10A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 8, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'It's going to change everything;
in a good way.' . For one Greenacres family,;
President Obama's order to let young immigrants stay in America means a real
future in the only country they've ever called home.

BYLINE: By Carlos Frías Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT & ARTS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1252 words


On one of the hottest days of summer so far, a would-be law student is painting
a friend's car in the driveway of his parents' rented double-wide.

Hugo Hernandez apologizes for his sweat-through T-shirt and the light metallic
blue paint all over his hands. This is how he makes a little money on the side.

Making money on the side -- and under the table, at his $6-an-hour job painting
cars at a local body shop -- is something he's used to because of his status as
an undocumented immigrant. But for the first time ever, Hugo Hernandez can see a
brighter future.

On June 15, President Obama issued a directive giving undocumented minors and
others under the age of 30 the right to work legally, get driver licenses and
attend college. The threat of deportation no longer hangs over the heads of
Hugo, 18, and his younger brother, Deivi, 15, because their parents brought them
to this country illegally in 1998.

The order is expected to affect some 800,000 to 1.4 million young immigrants
living without documentation in the United States. The President's decree is a
sort of Dream Act-lite, providing a certain kind of amnesty -- a work permit and
deferred prosecution from deportation, renewable every two years -- but is not
yet a path to permanent residency or citizenship.

Try telling that to the Hernandez brothers.

"It's going to change my life," Deivi Hernandez said. "It's going to change
everything in a good way."

When Hugo graduated from high school with a 3.2 grade-point average in May, he
could only picture his future through his father -- who is still working off the
books, tarring roofs all across Palm Beach County. "You feel like you have no
rights," said Hugo. "You feel trapped."

Low-paying jobs are still in his immediate future -- he starts work gutting a
hotel in Miami on Monday -- but now he can see something more. Better jobs, a
real career and all without fear of being deported back to a country that is
truly foreign to him because he hasn't been there since he was 4 years old:

"We learned more about the U.S. and everything here. Mexico we don't know
anything about."

'The day came'

On June 15, a Friday, a television was chattering away in the background of the
Hernandez family's Greenacres mobile home when the news came through about
President Obama's decision. It was Silvia Garcia Hernandez's most devout wish,
the act she believed would change the stars for her sons.

This is why she made them work for A's and B's in high school even though there
was never a possibility of a college education for children born in Mexico. This
is why she rushed in from the kitchen and hugged Deivi and cried.

"The day came," she said. "The day finally came, the one I always prayed would
arrive."

It's now another Friday, a sort of anniversary of that day, when Hugo enters the
house from painting to shower. He's met at the door with the redolence of
fresh-baked bread. Every morning for the past five years, Silvia has awoken at
5:30 a.m. to begin baking the loaves she sells to neighborhood families to help
make ends meet.

There's a knock at the door. And later, another. Each time, a neighbor stops
here to buy bread, they step through a threshold adorned by the boys' favorite
family picture at Disney World -- which is as far as the Hernandezes have dared
to drive for fear of being stopped by police.

The guest walks past an entertainment center filled with pictures of their
lives: Their first communions and 15th birthdays, the other three trips to
Disney, family back in Mexico. In the corner, there's a small grotto to the Baby
Jesus and several other Catholic saints.

Hugo Hernandez was still a toddler by the time his father had come across the
border twice to work in the United States and bring back money to their home in
the north-central state of Guanajuato.

But after Deivi was born, Silvia feared her children would grow up like her. Her
father was gone her entire childhood while working across the border and sending
back money so the family could live.

"I didn't want the same thing for my family," she said. "I wanted the children
to grow up next to their father."

Dreaming of medicine

So, 15 years ago, the family crossed the border. They came to Palm Beach County,
where they later had two more boys -- children who by virtue of their birth are
American citizens. But it only punctuated the difference between them and her
two older boys, who spoke Spanish at home but nevertheless speak English without
so much as a hint of an accent.

The boys went to school like all their classmates, growing up believing
themselves American -- until the day Hugo tried to apply for a job boxing pizzas
in a shop and found out he had no Social Security number.

Deivi learned the same lesson. On his 15th birthday, he tried to apply for a job
bagging groceries along with his high school friends. They each took their turns
entering their information on a computer, but when Deivi reached just the second
question after his name -- asking for a Social Security number -- he made up an
excuse for his friends about leaving the card at home and never came back.

His grades at school started to slip. A's and B's became C's and D's. The pride
his parents had instilled in him would not let himself get F's or not complete
his work.

"What's the point if nothing's going to happen at the end of four years?" Deivi
recalled thinking.

That's where Silvia stepped in. She always told her sons to be ready, to prepare
themselves with excellent grades in case the day came when the laws would change
that would allow them to go to college and work legally in the United States.

She wanted them to do all the right things. Hugo was desperate to drive, like
his mother and father who did so illegally, since they cannot be granted driver
licenses. Silvia took that risk but she didn't want her son to do the same, in
case a criminal record would forfeit an unexpected chance to stay here legally.

A day like the Friday that changed everything.

"It's a joy for us to know that even though we don't have this opportunity, our
children do," Silvia said.

Their circumstances never stopped the boys from dreaming.

Hugo always had his mind set on a career in law. In the last year, he began
working with immigrants rights advocate Manuel Guerra, who is undocumented and
thus could not apply for the seminary to become a priest.

Last week, Hugo traveled to Washington, D.C., to march on the Capitol and lobby
in support of immigrants rights. It was the second time he traveled outside of
Florida; the first was also to Washington, in the fifth grade, as one of a
select group of safety patrols.

"We learned that we had rights, too," Hugo remembers hearing on that first trip.
"I was like, 'Wow, everybody has rights.'"

Even when he knew it wasn't possible, Deivi dreamed the impossible -- to take
the medical training he's receiving at a technically oriented high school and
become a doctor. An anesthesiologist, to be precise.

"I thought if I did really good, there might be a college that would accept me.
So I tried my best," Deivi said.

Now, they have a real chance.

The family has been told the government will open the application process for
deferments within two months and Hugo is ready. He is preparing to discuss the
idea with the contractor who hired him in Miami, hoping to keep that job to save
up for college.

The dreamer can continue to dream.

"That's what we always wanted -- the opportunity for them to thrive," said
Silvia.

Hugo pats his mother's hand.

"I wasn't going to give up," he said.

carlos_frias@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants ready to apply for a 'dream'

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 897 words


Young illegal immigrants nationwide, including tens of thousands in Florida, can
begin to file Aug. 15 for permission to stay in the United States legally for
two years and avoid deportation.

The new policy, which also will allow those who are eligible to apply for work
permits, was announced by the Obama administration on June 15. It is expected to
immediately affect 800,000 to 1 million people across the country.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
announced Friday that the application for the deferred deportation and work
permit will open next week and cost $465. The fee is expected to offset the cost
of the program to the federal government, which will include performing criminal
background and national security checks. The process is expected to take several
months per applicant.

The initial stage of the program covers immigrants who are at least 15 years old
but who were younger than 31 on June 15. Applicants must have been brought to
the U.S. before the age of 16, have been in the country at least five
consecutive years, have no serious criminal record and either be in school, have
completed high school or attained a GED, or have been honorably discharged from
the military.

If the policy were to be extended, individuals now in the U.S. between ages 5
and 14 who fit the other qualifications also might be able to apply.

The policy change was made by the administration after a bill known as the Dream
Act, which covered the same group of young illegal immigrants, stalled
repeatedly in Congress. In announcing the new policy President Obama said people
brought to the U.S. as children who had lived significant portions of their
lives here and were achieving success in the U.S. should not be punished for the
immigration violations of their parents and face deportation.

Illegal immigrants now in deportation proceedings can apply if they meet the
requirements. As for people who have never been apprehended by authorities,
immigration officials have pledged that no information included in an
application will be used to find and detain an applicant. The exception would be
someone with a serious criminal history or who is considered a security threat.

An applicant who has been found guilty of a felony, a "significant" misdemeanor
such as a firearms offense or burglary, or is a repeat offender with three or
more misdemeanors would be considered a person with a serious criminal history
and would be ineligible.

Driving without a license, a frequent violation by illegal immigrants because
they cannot get driver licenses in most states, will not disqualify an
applicant, immigration officials said.

According to the non-profit Immigration Policy Center in Washington, as many as
936,930 people nationwide qualify to apply immediately for two years of deferred
deportation. An additional 426,000 children between the ages of 5 and 14 could
eventually apply if the policy is extended.

Nationally, 68 percent of the potential beneficiaries are Mexican; 13 percent
are from Central America, the Caribbean and Canada; 8 percent are Asian; 7
percent are from South America; 2 percent are from Europe; and 2 percent are
from other parts of the world.

According to the same data, in Florida as many as 60,190 people can apply right
now and another 25,560 might be eligible in time. In Florida, more come from
Central American and South American countries than from Mexico.

One person eligible now is Dulce Barrios, 19, of West Palm Beach, who says she
came from Mexico with her family when she was 5. She says she graduated from
Forest Hill High School last year and wants to attend Palm Beach State College
but has been unable to afford the out-of-state tuition. Even with the deferred
deportation she still will pay out-of-state rates.

"But now if I can get approved and get the work permit, that will make it easier
to make the money to go," she said. "Even if I can start taking one class,
that's something."

She says her brother Miguel, 20, graduated John Leonard High School in 2010, and
her brother Brigham, 17, is currently studying at the same school. They will
also be able to apply for deferred deportation when the family can scrape
together the $465 per person.

Attorney Richard Hujber of Boynton Beach says lawyers are waiting for
immigration authorities to post a new form they will need to fill out for
applicants.

"I'm expecting to see that online in the next nine days and then I'll be filing
quite a few cases, maybe a couple of dozen," he said.

Attorney Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach advised would-be applicants to
consult legal service attorneys or attorneys in private practice before filing.

"If they make mistakes in the application there is no appeal," she said. "People
have to be very careful. This is too important."

jlantigua@pbpost.com

Policy's Florida impact

President Obama's version of the Dream Act begins on Aug. 15 andwill help tens
of thousands of illegal immigrants in Florida avoid deportation and apply for
work permits. It costs $465 to apply. states where policy matters the most

Most potential Eligible now Eligible if Total

applicants by state policy broadened

California 298,030 114,530 412,560

Texas 152,550 74,150 226,700

Florida 60,190 25,560 85,750

New York 55,490 14,680 70,170

Illinois 48,590 18,860 67,460

Arizona 34,840 9,040 53,880

U.S 936,930 426,330 1,363,260

Source: Immigration Policy Center

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boatload of Cubans adjusting to life in U.S.

BYLINE: By Cynthia Roldan Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 377 words


A group of Cuban immigrants who came ashore Wednesday on Singer Island are no
longer in federal custody.

The 16 men and two women were taken into custody to check that their criminal
backgrounds were clear and that they were in good health.

Since then, the group has been released, said Elee Erice, spokeswoman for the
U.S. Customs and Border Protection office in Fort Lauderdale. The group is now
with a religious organization in Miami that helps migrants transition into life
in the United States

Their boat -- named Esperanza, Spanish for hope -- is believed to have left Cuba
on Friday. When border patrol agents met them on Singer Island between 1 and 2
a.m. Wednesday, the Cubans' boat had already washed ashore.

The 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act allows for legal permanent residency for those who
qualify because of an amendment that states that any Cuban who steps foot on the
U.S. shore can stay. It's commonly referred to as the "wet-foot, dry-foot
policy."

A Cuban man living in the United States was told by family members that his
brother was one of the 16 men on the boat. The man, who asked that his name not
be used, added that he was told that by the time the migrants arrived in Palm
Beach County, they were out of food and water, and running low on gas. Their
battered boat was equipped with an old Russian car engine and a makeshift rudder
and sail.

The group likely hit rough sailing Monday because of thunderstorms that
originated in Cuba. Those storms produced winds at about 35 mph, said Jon Rizzo,
warning coordination meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Miami.

There have been four similar incidents in Palm Beach County in the past six
months.

In June, a boat dropped off about 10 Haitians off Jupiter Island in a suspected
case of human smuggling. At the time, only two of the 10 people were located. It
is unknown what happened to the others.

In April, a Bahamian man came ashore on Palm Beach's north end with more than
400 pounds of marijuana. Agents seized the pot and the 12-foot vessel used to
transport it.

In March, the U.S. Coast Guard arrested a 36-year-old boat captain from the
Bahamas for human smuggling. Agents seized the boat which came ashore near Palm
Beach. Two Jamaican men were found on the boat.

croldan@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

your world at a glance

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 669 words


Birmingham, ala.

U.S. establishes civil rights unit

The Justice Department said Tuesday it was establishing its first civil rights
unit in Alabama, a move that comes after the state's crackdown on illegal
immigration raised broader concerns about compliance with federal laws.

While the unit wasn't formed as a direct result of Alabama's immigration law --
parts of which have been blocked by federal courts -- officials said it would
examine issues related to immigrants and also matters involving fair housing
laws, police brutality claims, compliance with federal disability laws and
minority protection.

nEW yORK

Poker requires skill, federal judge rules

A federal judge ruled Tuesday that poker is more a game of skill than chance and
cannot be prosecuted under a law created to stop organized crime families from
making millions of dollars from gambling.

The decision by Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn was embraced by advocates of
card games pushing to legalize Internet poker in the United States.

The judge relied extensively on the findings of a defense expert who analyzed
online poker games. The ruling tossed out a jury's July conviction of a man
charged with conspiring to operate an illegal underground poker club, a business
featuring Texas Hold'em games run in a warehouse.

dover, del.

Day-care workers face felony charges

Three day-care workers videotaped a fight between 3-year-old boys in their care
and encouraged the toddlers to pummel each other as they laughed about it,
according to court documents.

The three women were charged Monday with assault and other offenses after police
obtained a cellphone video of the March 6 incident. Officials suspended the
license of the day-care center.

Each women was charged with felony assault and conspiracy, and several
misdemeanor counts of endangering the welfare of a child.

Los angeles

Natalie Wood death certificate altered

Los Angeles County authorities have changed Natalie Wood's death certificate to
reflect some of the lingering questions surrounding the actress' drowning 30
years ago.

An amended copy of the actress' death certificate was entered earlier this month
and changes her death from being classified as accidental to undetermined. The
amended document also notes that how Wood got into the water was never "clearly
established."

Wood, a three-time Oscar nominee, drowned in the waters off Catalina Island in
November 1981. Sheriff's investigators renewed their investigation last year
shortly before the 30th anniversary of her death.

The sheriff's department says the case remains open and that the coroner's
office made the ultimate decision to amend the death certificate.

Detectives have instructed coroner's officials to not discuss the case.

cuba

12 convicted in corruption case

A Cuban court in Holguín Province has convicted a dozen people of corruption,
including high-ranking government officials, an executive at a state-run nickel
company and workers from a project operating under a Cuban-Canadian joint
concern, official media announced Tuesday.

In a case involving a contract for the expansion of the Pedro Soto Alba nickel
and cobalt processing plant at the Moa mine, the sentences range from four to 12
years, the Communist Party newspaper Granma reported.

The announcement was the first official confirmation of a probe that since last
year has been the source of rumor and private discussion by diplomats on the
island.

Palm Beach Post wire services

pasadena, calif.

Rover ready for first test drive

Scientists on Tuesday prepared to send the rover Curiosity on its first test
drive over the billion-year-old rocks of Mars.

Engineers at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory turned four of the rover's six
wheels in place this week in a successful "wheel wiggle" to test the steering
for today's trek, mission manager Mike Watkins said.

The rover will move forward about 10 feet, turn right, then back up and park
slightly to the left of its old spot.

The test drive is part of a health checkup the rover has been undergoing since
landing Aug. 5.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 24, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant students look to boost status ;
 Many capitalize on Deferred Action policy for shot at success.

BYLINE: By John Lantigua Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1273 words


For years, Mexican immigrant Gilberto Lara of West Palm Beach urged his
daughter, Guadalupe, to keep studying hard, even though the family was in the
United States illegally, and without proper documents it would be extremely
difficult for her to realize her full potential.

The issue became even more crucial after Guadalupe graduated from John I.
Leonard High School in Greenacres in 2010 with good grades and entered Palm
Beach State College. She wants to be a dental hygienist, but anyone entering
that profession must pass state background checks. Without a valid Social
Security number, those checks cannot be done and a person cannot be licensed or
even participate in the college-level course because it includes training
exercises with volunteer patients.

That discouraged her. But her father, who works as a welder to pay his
daughter's school expenses, told her to not give up.

"I told her, you just stay in school and keep studying hard," Lara, 44, said in
an interview in Spanish. "I brought her here so she could do what I had never
been able to do: go to college and then have a career. I said, 'You keep working
and maybe something will change.'"

On Sept. 7, something big did change.

On that date, attorney Aileen Josephs of West Palm Beach filed Guadalupe's
application for a new immigration category, called Deferred Action. In June,
President Obama issued an executive order allowing young immigrants brought to
the U.S. before age 16, who have been in the country at least five years, are
still 30 or younger, have completed high school or military service and have no
serious criminal record, to apply for temporary legal status in the U.S.

That status also will bring them the ability to apply for work permits, Social
Security numbers and driver licenses. The permissions are good for two years,
but it is expected that successful applicants will be able to extend them.

Applications rolling in

More than 800,000 people are eligible to apply, and Guadalupe is one of them.
The application period began Aug. 15 and as of Sept. 13, 82,361 people already
had done so, according to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. Of that
total, 29 have been approved, 1,660 are in a final review stage, and 63,717 are
waiting for appointments to have their photographs and fingerprints taken.
Guadalupe is in that category.

The ability to study is important to her in the long term, but the work permit
is also crucial. Even though she has lived in Florida seven years and graduated
from a local high school, her family's illegal immigration status forces her to
pay an out-of-state tuition rate. At PBSC that is $358 per credit, about three
times the in-state rate.

"I'm very happy because I will get to do what I want to do," said Guadalupe, 20.
"But I'm also happy because my parents are having to spend a lot to keep me in
school, and I will be able to help them."

Cintia Hernandez, 18, of Lantana, is even further ahead in the process. She has
an appointment Oct. 3 to have her photograph and fingerprints taken by the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service. Hernandez, who has been in the U.S.
illegally from Mexico since she was a year old, says she is also on her way to a
new legal status and, she hopes, a new life. She wants to study medicine and be
a pediatrician.

"And at least now I could have a chance of that," she says.

According to her attorney, Richard Hujber of Boynton Beach, Hernandez was an
honor roll student at Santaluces High School, where she graduated this year.
Hernandez's mother, Isabel, says her daughter's academic prowess started early.

"When she was in fifth grade, she took (standardized) tests and we were told she
was at the eighth-grade level," Isabel says proudly.

Cintia was offered scholarships to start her studies at PBSC but because of her
immigration status could not accept a large portion of the money. Her mother
cleans houses, her father works in golf course maintenance and the costly,
out-of-state school expenses would be too much for them.

Cintia works in a Subway sandwich shop, making the minimum wage of $7.67 per
hour. In high school she studied early childhood education, passed a
certification course and could work as an after-school counselor or in a
day-care center. But, again, the state requires a valid Social Security number
before it will certify her.

"If I can get that number and start that work, I can make much better than
minimum wage and use that money to help my parents," she says.

"My mom and dad have always been behind me, because they came here so I could do
better than they had. But until now I couldn't take advantage of that. Hopefully
now it will happen."

Waiting to apply

Many conservatives have opposed the Deferred Action policy, calling it a form of
amnesty. GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who during the Republican
primaries opposed proposed legislation known as the Dream Act that was similar
to Deferred Action, now says he wants to find a way to make Deferred Action
permanent, at least for young immigrants who have served in the military. He has
not said the same about students.

There is no deadline for filing for Deferred Action, as long as an applicant
meets all the criteria. Local attorneys says they are getting many calls, but
some of those callers don't qualify, typically because they came to the U.S. at
too late an age, haven't finished high school or have not been in the country
long enough.

Hujber says he has already filed seven cases, has another seven in process and
gets calls almost daily from prospective clients.

"I figure I'll do 20 or 25 by the time it's over," he said. "The volume has been
about what I expected."

Josephs says she has also accepted about 15 clients, has filed most of their
cases already and is preparing the others.

"But I've been surprised that there have been so few cases so far," she says. "I
think, in part, it is that the information has just not gotten to some people.
Also the money could be an issue."

The basic fee for applying is $380 and the fingerprinting and photography cost
$85. Those who use private lawyers will pay an attorney's fee, which varies.
Attorneys say another reason some eligible people are waiting to apply is that
they are nervous about coming out of the shadows and contacting the government.
The Obama administration has said that no one applying, nor members of the
applicant's family, runs any risk of being apprehended, unless it is found that
they are wanted by law-enforcement authorities for non-immigration offenses.

Josephs advises that anyone who can afford to do so should use an attorney to
file. "You make a mistake on the form, they can reject you and you lose the one
chance you have," she says. But she and other attorneys also are conducting free
clinics around the county for people who want information on Deferred Action and
guidance on filing applications. The Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County is
planning to host such a clinic once per week, starting Tuesday. Call (561)
655-8944, Ext. 333 for more information.

jlantigua@pbpost.com

Be informed

Local resources for information on Deferred Action:

The Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County will conduct workshops beginning
Tuesday. Anyone interested is asked to call (561) 655-8944, Ext.333, for more
information.

The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office has scheduled an information session Oct.
4, 6:30-8 p.m., at 1121 Lucerne Ave., Lake Worth, the former Lake Worth Resource
Center. Immigration attorneys Aileen Josephs and Cynthia Arrevalo will conduct
the session. For more information, call PBSO community liaison Benito Gaspar,
(561) 202-9629.

Or, contact a private immigration attorney.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE  Immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

state briefs

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 239 words


DEERFIELD BEACH

Nine held in youth football gambling

Authorities said Tuesday they uncovered a massive gambling operation targeting
youth football games in South Florida, leading them to arrest nine men,
including coaches with extensive criminal backgrounds who they say exploited
kids to turn a profit.

The 18-month-long investigation started when ESPN journalists brought Broward
County sheriff's officials surveillance video showing parents openly exchanging
money in the stands while watching their kids' tackle football games.
Authorities later uncovered the stakes on pee wee games were high, with more
than $100,000 wagered on the youth football championship.

Investigators do not believe the games were thrown or that coaches encouraged
players not to complete a touchdown in order to control the outcome. Authorities
said they had no evidence that the players were aware of the bets.

MIAMI

Tuition ruling favors immigrants

A judge has ordered the state to stop charging higher tuition to American
citizens whose parents are undocumented immigrants by next semester.

U.S. District Court Judge Michael Moore wrote that the regulations will no
longer apply for Spring 2013 for students who can prove that they and their
parents are Florida residents, regardless of their parents' immigration status.

The judge had already ruled that the state's tuition rules violated the
constitutional rights of those students.

Palm Beach Post wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans who dare to dream ;
 South Florida lawmakers buck party on immigration.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 172 words


Those looking for any sign that bipartisanship has a pulse can find it in House
passage of the DREAM Act.

Eight Republicans voted for the measure, which would help a narrow category of
illegal immigrants obtain citizenship. Three -- Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Lincoln
Diaz-Balart and Mario Diaz-Balart -- are from South Florida. Yes, they're
Cuban-Americans. But Cuban refugees already have favored status. Rep.
Ros-Lehtinen supports the act, which would help young people brought here by
their parents and require them to serve in the military or advance their
education, because it "reflects the generosity and the goodwill of this country
and its citizens, a country that opened up its arms to me as a refugee child."

Most Republicans voted against it, and the GOP is blocking it in the Senate.
Some Republicans have favored comprehensive immigration reform for years. Reform
would be good for security, good for bipartisanship and, given America's
demographics, good for the GOP.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hope dims for stalled Dream Act ;
 Senate Democrats, falling short of the necessary votes, table the bill.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 626 words


The Dream Act hit another bump in the road Thursday.

One day after the House passed the bill, which would affect tens of thousands of
undocumented immigrants living in Florida and many more across the country,
Senate Democrats chose not to bring the measure to a vote.

In a confusing series of events, Democrats voted to table their own bill after
it became clear that they could not muster the votes needed to pass a procedural
motion.

The Senate had planned a cloture vote, which requires 60 votes to end debate on
the measure and bring it to the Senate floor. But when it became clear that
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., could not persuade enough Republicans to
support the measure and avoid a GOP filibuster, he asked to table the bill.

Unlike cloture, a simple majority was needed to table the bill, and senators
approved that on a 59-40 vote.

The maneuver allows supporters to bring up the measure later in the lame-duck
session. But with Senate Republican leaders vowing to continue to block it, and
the new Congress that convenes in January including many more conservatives who
oppose easing immigration restrictions, it appears the measure is doomed for the
foreseeable future.

Nevertheless, Reid and Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., the bill's chief champion in
the chamber, put a positive spin on the situation.

The House "passed a strong, bipartisan version of the Dream Act -- a narrowly
tailored bill that would allow a select group of immigrant students with great
potential to contribute more fully to America," Reid and Durbin said in a joint
statement.

"In light of that vote, the Senate will move to the House-passed version of the
bill later this month," they said. "In the meantime, we will work with House
leaders and the administration to ensure that the Dream Act will be law by the
end of the year."

The measure would let undocumented immigrants qualify for conditional legal
status after they complete two years of college or military service -- if they
are under 30, were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have been here at least
five years and have finished high school here. They also must have avoided any
serious run-ins with the law.

Supporters say the immigrants who would be covered have been successful high
school students but have been blocked from leading productive adult lives
because of their undocumented status. Military leaders back the bill because it
would increase the number of possible recruits. Many higher-education officials
also support it.

But many Republicans oppose the measure -- officially named the Development,
Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act -- calling it a form of amnesty for
people illegally in the country. They also criticize the bill for failing to
increase border security and for offering legal status to residents who then
would compete with U.S. citizens for scarce jobs.

One such critic is U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, who voted against the bill
Wednesday night, joining all but eight House Republicans.

"While I do not support the Dream Act, I would be willing to consider a
stand-alone bill that would grant legal residence status to anyone who puts on
the uniform and serves in the U.S. military," he said in a statement.

Sen. George LeMieux, R-Fla., expressed his continued opposition Thursday.

"I am very sympathetic to the young people who entered our country illegally by
no fault of their own, but I cannot support consideration of the Dream Act
without addressing border security," he said in a statement.

"I recently visited the U.S.-Mexico border in Arizona and witnessed the progress
toward securing the border," LeMieux said. "However, we are still far from
achieving a level of border security that is acceptable to me or to the American
people."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  'Don't ask, don't tell' repeal blocked  Republicans setback efforts to
overturn policy on gays serving openly in the military. 3AOpposition from the
Florida delegation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 25, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill's backers refuse to quit after defeat ;
 Despite steep odds, locals say this year's lessons will help.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 801 words


It was a very hard way to learn a civics lesson.

When the Senate refused to pass the immigration bill known as the Dream Act last
week, a bunch of undocumented young people in South Florida found themselves on
the wrong side of the nation's contentious political divide.

"It's politics, and these sorts of things happen," said Manuel Guerra, 26, who
originally is from Mexico and lives in Martin County. He spoke those words like
a veteran of party wars, although he is relatively new to politics.

He and other undocumented young people, who were brought to this country before
they were 16 years old and have finished high school in the U.S., have been
trying for several years to persuade Congress to open a path for them to become
legal residents and eventually citizens. Their effort to pass the bill increased
after the 2008 election of President Obama, who has supported the measure.

The Dream Act -- the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act --
would allow such individuals, up to 29 years old, to qualify for legal status if
they served two years in the military or completed two years of college.

At least 2 million undocumented people nationwide would be covered by the bill,
although supporters estimate that less than half would eventually fulfill the
requirements. Florida, along with California, Texas and New York, is thought to
have a large share of people affected -- tens of thousands.

Because they have been educated in the U.S., the "dreamers" -- as those covered
by the bill are called -- say they are more American than foreign. But without
legal status, they say, they have little chance of fulfilling their potential
and leading productive lives in this country.

Military leaders back the bill because they say it would increase their
recruitment pool. Many figures in higher education also support it.

The House passed it this month, but it failed to get the 60 votes it needed in
the Senate, falling 55-41, with only three Republicans voting in favor.

Conservative Republicans have taken a hard stance on immigration issues, and
many more of them are due to take seats in the next Congress in January. This
means that "dreamers" will almost certainly have an even harder time getting the
bill passed.

But they say they have learned quite a bit about national politics this year and
are not giving up.

"We are looking forward to working with the Republicans in the future," Guerra
said.

Ben Gaspar, 24, originally from Guatemala and now living in Stuart, agreed.

"The leaders of our movement spent a lot of time talking to the Democrats, maybe
too much time," he said. "We have been talking to GOP leaders, but with the new
Congress coming in, we need to talk to them more than ever. We also held a lot
of rallies and made a lot of phone calls, but I think what we need now is to sit
down and have conversations with those Republicans, tell them what we're about."

One Republican they won't speaking to is Sen. George LeMieux. The Florida
Republican repeatedly voted against the bill this year, despite pleas and visits
from supporters. LeMieux is leaving the Senate next month after finishing a term
originally won by Mel Martinez.

He has been mentioned as a possible GOP Senate candidate in 2012, when Democrat
Bill Nelson is up for reelection. Nelson supported the Dream Act.

"If LeMieux runs in 2012, we will do what we can to see he isn't elected,"
Guerra said. "He did not do a good job representing the Latino community in the
Senate."

Julio Calderon, 21, originally from Honduras and now of Miami-Dade County,
agrees the dreamers will be active politically.

"We have a lot of support in our community," he said. "We need to educate voters
about who is for us and who is against us, who is against the future."

Gaspar believes the Dream Act will get tweaked before it is introduced again.
Some Republicans, including LeMieux, criticized the bill because it had no
provision for increasing border security. Gaspar believes that could change.

Some Dream Act supporters across the country have spoken about trying to work at
the state level to achieve some changes. For example, many states, including
Florida, force dreamers to pay out-of-state tuition fees, even though they live
full time in state.

Guerra concedes that in Florida, that could be a tough sell because the GOP
holds supermajorities in both houses of the legislature. "But that doesn't mean
that all the Republicans will be against us," he said.

But the main focus will be to continue to press for passage of the Dream Act.

The Rev. Mark Boykin, pastor of the Church of All Nations in Boca Raton, has
been a strong supporter of the bill.

"We were deeply disappointed by the vote, but we will regroup," he said. "We
will not give up on the Dream Act."

Or as Guerra put it: "The dream will not die."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Dream Act Follow the debate Get the latest on immigration and read
previous coverage. PalmBeachPost.com/go/immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sowing seeds of doom for growers? ;
 A crackdown on illegal workers will spur crisis, state farmers warn.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1087 words


Florida farmers, worried that lawmakers could strip them of their largely
undocumented workforce, are warning of an impending crisis in their fields.

Those growers admit that at least 75 percent of their workers are in the U.S.
illegally. Most of those workers buy fake Social Security cards and employers
generally issue paychecks and deduct payroll taxes and Social Security taxes
which they attribute to those false numbers. In that way employers fulfill their
legal obligation. They are not obliged to check if the numbers are legitimate.

But a bill now before the Congress, the Legal Workforce Act, sponsored by U.S.
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, would require all employers to use a federal database
called E-Verify to check the legitimacy of those numbers and not hire illegal
workers.

Smith said his program would "provide growers who want to do the right thing
with a reliable source of legal labor" and would also "protect the livelihoods
of American workers and the rights of guest workers."

Agricultural interests nationwide and other business groups have opposed Smith's
bill, and chances of its passage are questionable.

But Florida farmers are still worried. In Alabama, farmers and tourism industry
leaders opposed the adoption of E-Verify there, but it still passed a
GOP-controlled legislature and goes into effect April 1. Georgia had previously
passed statewide E-Verify, despite opposition by farmers. Many undocumented
workers have abandoned both those states, causing losses of crops, according to
growers there.

Similar legislation failed in Florida this year but state farmers still fear
that E-Verify may eventually be required here. And many fear that what they see
as their only alternative, hiring foreigners through a federal guest worker visa
program, would carry much higher costs and risks.

A front-page article in this month's Florida Grower, published by the Florida
Fruit and Vegetable Association, alerts farmers to the legislative dangers and
urges them to contact their lawmakers in Tallahassee and Washington.

"E-Verify could create massive disruptions in labor supply," the article says.
The publication says there are 1.2 to 1.4 million farmworkers in the United
States, with about 75 percent falsely documented. In Florida, there are an
estimated 150,000 farmworkers with a similar rate of false documentation,
although the rate among purely harvest workers is likely much higher, the
article states.

In Georgia, just as in Alabama, it was largely Republican Party lawmakers who
went against the interests of farmers, most of whom also traditionally support
the GOP. Observers say that illustrates the anger in those states, and across
the land, over the number of undocumented immigrants in the country.

"My biggest fear is people are so emotional on this issue and set in their
opinion that we are going to have to have significant farm losses before
legislators wake up," said Mike Carlton, labor relations director for the FFVA.

"We don't know the consequences of what's happening in Georgia and Alabama and
how it will impact labor here in Florida this year. We know farmworkers were
avoiding driving through Georgia last year and likely will avoid Alabama. It
almost blocks us off."

According to the FFVA, a University of Georgia study of growers of blueberries,
blackberries, Vidalia onions, bell peppers, squash, cucumber and watermelon
showed that $140 million were lost "at the farm gate" this year due to labor
shortages.

When related jobs are added in, such as retail sales and transportation of
produce, the state economy lost an estimated $391 million, the FFVA said. "If
approximately 75 percent of your work force disappears, what are you to do?"
Florida Grower asked.

The publication said the only option growers have is to turn to the federal
agricultural guest worker program, known as the H-2A program, which allows the
legal importation of temporary farm labor.

But Florida farmers say that program has many problems. The legal guest workers
are more expensive than undocumented migrant workers because the federal
government insisted they be guaranteed $9.50 per hour, far above the state
minimum wage of $7.31. Their transportation must be paid to and from their
native country every year and the grower must supply housing.

Carlton said commodities prices are set by what buyers are willing to pay, not
by growers, so the difference in cost would likely come out of farmers' pockets
and not be passed on to consumers.

Vegetable growers in Florida say another big problem is that importing workers
involves considerable paperwork, and glitches with those documents often cause
delays in workers arriving.

"Right now the H-2A program creates more problems for many growers than it
solves," said Rick Roth, a Belle Glade grower. "It works for growers who have
lots of acres and long harvest seasons, like in citrus. But for tomatoes, for
example, it doesn't work."

A review of the list of growers who have applied for imported worker visas this
year confirmed Roth's assessment. Of 58 growers, 52 are citrus growers and more
than 95 percent of the workers requested are for citrus. They total around
6,500.

Carlton said the citrus harvest is months long and those growers can spread the
travel and paperwork costs of importing the workers over a longer period, making
it cost-effective. But for vegetable growers, the harvest season is a matter of
weeks in any one locale and then workers move to other towns and states.

Roth said the H-2A program requires that workers only work for one employer and
then go home. Unless vegetable growers in different areas can be allowed to
share those workers and divide the costs, the workers will be too expensive, he
said.

"They have to stop designing it in a way that people can't use it," Roth said.

Roth said the government should create guest worker visas that last for several
years and allow workers to labor in specific industries for different employers.
He also believes that guest worker visas should not be used as paths to
citizenship.

Roth said the one argument he would like to stop hearing is that there are
Americans citizens who would do the work if wages were high enough.

He said not only is the work back-breaking and hot, but a worker has to pick up
and move every few weeks, which most citizens won't do.

"This is a repetitive job for people who don't speak the language," he said.
"These people pick the crops for other people who have air-conditioned jobs."

The New York Times contributed to this story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST EXCLUSIVEGuest worker visas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 25, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal workers pay taxes, won't benefit ;
 Many help fund Social Security and Medicare with their wages.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1164 words


While many Americans believe that illegal immigrants don't pay taxes, the Social
Security Administration sees billions of dollars flow into its coffers every
year that have been deducted from paychecks issued to undocumented workers using
false names and phony Social Security numbers -- money those workers will almost
certainly never see again.

SSA officials keep a record of total wages that do not match up with real names
and numbers in their system. The record is called the earnings suspense file.

In 2009, the last year for which figures are available, employers reported wages
of $72.8 billion for 7.7 million workers who could not be matched to legal
Social Security numbers.

In 2007, just before the recession, that total reached a record of $90.4 billion
earned by 10.8 million workers. Some of those were legal workers who simply made
mistakes in their paperwork, but it is believed that the majority were
undocumented.

Since those wages were reported by employers and not paid under the table,
Social Security and Medicare deductions had to be made. A total of 12.4 percent
of those wages went into the SSA system -- 6.2 percent paid each by the worker
and the employer. An additional 2.9 percent was paid into Medicare, half by the
worker and half by the employer.

That means about $11.2 billion went into the Social Security Trust Fund in 2007,
and $2.6 billion went into Medicare. While that money will be used to pay
retirees and health care beneficiaries, most of it likely will never be claimed
by the undocumented workers who contributed it.

Since the passage of 2010's payroll tax cut -- which Congress on Friday extended
through February -- workers have paid 4.2 percent to Social Security instead of
6.2 percent.

"When you hear people voicing anti-immigrant sentiments, one of the first things
they say is, 'They don't pay any taxes, and they just take money out of the
system,'" said Jeannie Economos of the Farmworker Association Florida, based in
Apopka. "But that just isn't true. Yes, some are paid under the table, but the
majority are paid by check, and they pay taxes out of those checks."

Fake SS cards prevalent

For many employers, the move away from paying undocumented workers under the
table came in 1986. That was the year President Ronald Reagan signed an amnesty
that made about 2.8 million undocumented workers legal. But part of that law --
the Immigration Reform and Control Act -- requires that employers demand proof
that a worker has a legal right to work in the United States.

Employers are obligated to ask for a Social Security number, but they don't have
to confirm that it is real. That has led, over the years, to the printing of
millions of false Social Security cards that are sold to newly arrived
undocumented workers.

The SSA notifies employers every year of Social Security numbers and workers
that don't match up. Employers tell employees they have to get new cards.

"And they simply do it all over again the next year with a new number," said
attorney Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth.

A false SSA card, accompanied by a phony alien registration card -- known as a
green card -- can be had for about $200 in Florida, Economos said.

Some immigrant advocates encourage undocumented workers to save all their check
stubs in the hope that if another amnesty is approved they might be able to
claim their Social Security benefits someday, but Schell sees that as very
unlikely.

"Many of these workers have used lots of different names and numbers so that it
would be quite a project to go back," he said. "They almost certainly will never
get back the money they are paying, and so they are helping keep Social Security
solvent."

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
leading voice for stricter immigration enforcement and against amnesty, concedes
that illegal immigrants put billions of dollars into Social Security. He says
the figure he has heard is about $7 billion per year in total FICA contributions
-- Social Security plus Medicare.

"But that $7 billion figure pales when compared to the cost of having illegal
aliens here," Mehlman said.

His federation estimates that local, state and federal spending on illegal
immigrants -- mainly for education and health care -- costs about $100 billion
per year.

Just happy to have a job

Immigrant advocates dispute that figure. They also argue that undocumented
workers pay sales tax, some income taxes and rent, part of which landlords use
to pay property taxes, in addition to Social Security and Medicare taxes.

But Mehlman said the undocumented still don't pay their way. He also said he
does not believe that a significant majority of undocumented workers are paid by
check and pay taxes.

"I'd say it's more like half who get paid by check and rest are paid under the
table," he said. "If U.S. workers were doing those jobs, they would all pay
taxes and they would also be making higher wages and paying more into Social
Security and Medicare than is being paid now."

When it comes to withholding tax, the amount taken out of the checks of
undocumented workers differs. Since most will never file a tax return and have
no chance of getting a refund, some workers claim many dependents so that they
don't pay much in the first place. Schell said some employers also take out no
withholding, or only a "nominal amount, like a dollar, to give the workers a
break."

Undocumented workers get accustomed to seeing the Social Security and Medicare
taxes taken out and understand they will probably never see it again.

Yesica, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who declined to give her last name, has
been in the U.S. for 11 years. She has worked in nurseries, a plant that made
doors, and a recycling plant, all in Florida.

"I've always been paid by check and I've always had those taxes taken out,"
Yesica, 28, said, referring to Social Security and Medicare. She said her
husband, who is also Mexican and has been in the U.S. 14 years, has been paid by
payroll check for all but one year. She said they have paid thousands of dollars
in FICA taxes.

"That money is lost," she said. "I don't really think about it. I'm just happy
we've had work."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Not reaping all they sow

Below are the number of cases and total wages paid by employers where the

reported Social Security numbers could not be matched with valid ones.

Social Security and Medicare taxes were deducted from these wages, but those

who paid them -- believed mostly to be illegal immigrants --likely will never

be able to claim those benefits.

Year-by-year payments

Filings with invalid Social Security number Wages

2000 9.6 million $48.9 billion

2001 9.8 million $56.0 billion

2002 9.1 million $56.2 billion

2003 9.0 million $58.4 billion

2004 9.6 million $66.2 billion

2005 10.4 million $75.6 billion

2006 11.0 million $86.0 billion

2007 10.8 million $90.4 billion

2008 9.5 million $86.7 billion

2009 7.7 million $72.8 billion

Source: Social Security Administration

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Immigrants and Social Security People with invalid SSNs add billions to
programs. 16A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegals' 'plight' primarily is burden on taxpayers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1218 words


Your report on the plight of undocumented, illegal workers unable to benefit
from their payment of Social Security and unemployment taxes ("Illegal workers
pay taxes, won't benefit," Dec. 25) will probably inspire a move for restitution
after they have been granted amnesty. Unfortunately, the story left out some of
the hidden costs the illegal 10million impose on taxpayers.

Hospitals in southern Florida report millions of dollars in uncollectible bills
for services provided to the illegals, and are seeking help from federal
agencies, which will, of course, come from U.S. taxpayers.

Schools are required to provide bilingual education at a cost to local property
owners. One school district in Connecticut I know of had to provide instruction
in 23 different languages.

A generation ago, where I came from "up North," French and Italian parents would
have been outraged if their children were not taught exclusively in English. No
mention is made of the cost to our justice and penal systems of illegal
immigrant crime. Most painful, I think, is the loss to our economy of the
reported $20billion sent each year, back to the homeland of the illegals. That
is money that was earned here, and which if reinvested in our economy, might
help provide jobs for everyone.

Those who read only the headline and caption to your story may sympathize with
illegals who have to pay taxes. But if they ever realize the true costs of this
invasion, sympathy will turn to rage.

DAVID F. SWEENEY

Stuart

For billing, delivery and subscriptions: (561) 820-4663Why would Iraqis be
grateful for U.S. invasion, occupation?

Regarding the letter to the editor "Where's Iraqi gratitude?" (27 December
2011). The writer apparently forgot that the Iraqis never asked George W. Bush
and America to invade their country, never asked Mr. Bush and America to spend
billions to invade their country, and certainly never asked Mr. Bush and America
to have hundreds of thousands of Iraqis killed, maimed and made homeless by the
Bush invasion.

I would guess that most Iraqis rue the day Americans set foot in their country
and caused more violence and destruction than ever was perpetrated by Saddam
Hussein.

So, for this, Iraqis should be grateful to America? Most would like to throw
more than a shoe at George W. Bush.

RON GAMBOLATI

West Palm Beach

Influx to no-income-tax Florida not so surprising

In an article, "Fla. nears N.Y. in population," Dec. 22, The Post quotes experts
as being baffled by the outsize growth in Florida's population. Here is one
non-expert opinion: It's the taxes, stupid.

As the federal, state and local governments increase taxes on the segment of
society that is better off, rational economic behavior of this group attempts to
mitigate its impact. By moving to Florida from a high income-tax state one
lessens the overall tax bite.

It is no accident when you quoted economist Sean Snaith as saying "They're
affluent retirees who don't need to sell their homes elsewhere." As long as
Florida's tax climate remains the same, this non-expert predicts that this trend
will continue.

MICHAEL SANGER

North Palm Beach

Jobs stats prove ... what?

The writer of the letter, "Democrats have no machine comparable to Fox News"
(Dec. 26) quotes an often repeated statistic taken from the Government
Accountability Office: The stimulus created or "saved" (whatever that means) 2.5
million to 3 million jobs. Big deal. She and President Obama fail to quote
another number from the same source: In the three years he has been in office,
5,466,000 jobs were lost. You do the math.

LAURA HENNING

Palm Beach Gardens

Holiday gift a doozy: New standard to limit mercury

During the holiday season, the Obama administration gave Florida families the
gift of good health. After decades of industry resistance and delay, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency finalized on Dec. 21, a historic standard to
protect the health of Florida's kids by limiting mercury and other toxic air
pollution from power plants.

Florida is 15th in the nation for mercury emission from power plants. EPA's
safeguard will protect Florida's children from neurological damage, birth
defects and asthma attacks, and will save 11,000 lives nationwide every year.

More than 900,000 Americans submitted comments to EPA on the new standard -- the
most comments ever received for an EPA rule. President Obama and his
administration are right to recognize this public support -- and the very real
threats posed by mercury to our kids' health and our environment -- by
finalizing this historic standard this holiday season.

PAUL ROLFE

Miami Beach

Editor's note: Paul Rolfe is a federal field organizer for Environment Florida.

Take outsized influence away from Iowa; why not Florida?

I hate the "Iowa Olympics," don't you? Iowa has been granted outsized influence
by being chosen first by the Democratic and Republican parties in the
presidential selection process, and they have (a) abused this influence to
distort America's energy policy; and (b) their elective results in choosing the
candidates most favored around the nation have been less than stellar.

I don't think they have well reflected the interests or ambitions of the nation
in selecting our presidents, and they've slipped us an ethanol mickey!

My advice to the chairmen of the Democrat and Republican parties is to switch
back to New Hampshire; or, if they are looking for another state to kick off the
political primaries, hey, why not Florida? And, by the way, chairmen of both
parties -- for God's sake give the holiday season back to America and begin your
electioneering process after Jan. 15! Thank you.

PETE STUBBEN

Delray Beach

Letters about God claimto 'know,' but they cannot

Not infrequently letters appear in The Post on the subject of God and the Bible,
most recently, "Bible is the only blueprint for a godly modern life" and "U.S.
began on word of God." The underlying premise in many of these letters seems to
be that what is written in Scripture can be taken as literal fact and that we
humans somehow have ready access to the will of God. Assertions about these
matters are often made with all the certitude of indisputable dogma.

Might a question or two help to clarify this situation a little, lead to a
dispassionate objective dialogue, and perhaps to a modicum of humility in all of
us? First: What do we know -- not what do we "believe," but what do we actually,
empirically, "know" -- about God? Second, and even more basic: What is God?

FLOYD BECHERER

Palm City

I went 82 years without a bailout; so should we all

I am 82 years old, and grew up during the Great Depression.

I obtained my first mortgage in 1958. As my life improved, I obtained two
subsequent mortgages. No one helped me make the payments. It was my
responsibility. There were times when payments became difficult -- but we worked
through it. It was never easy. It was my life and my problem.

I educated my children, paid my loans, saved for the rainy day, and finally was
able to retire. I taught my children the same lessons.

Why do we have to bail out anyone who was foolish enough to buy a home they
could not afford? A mortgage is a loan. You borrow money; you pay it back. You
ask for credit with plastic -- you make the payments.

It is time we wake up to the reality of our lives. We are responsible for our
own actions.

BURTON M. PIKE

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWSLETTERS@PBPOST.COMPB  TIM BURKE,Executive Editor and Publisher
The Palm Beach Post welcomes your letters. They are subject to editing andmust
include the writer's name, address and daytime phone number. Preferred length is
a maximum of 200 words. Email: letters@pbpost.com Mail:Letters to the Editor,The
Palm Beach Post, 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL 33405Fax:(561)
820-4728JOIN THE DEBATE THE PALM BEACH POST EDITORIAL BOARD'S MISSION: The news
you need, the analysis you appreciate, the viewpoints you value. THE POST: A
READER RESPONDS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETAINEES LOSE KIDS ;
 When illegal laborers are caught, Florida officials can put their children in
foster care -- setting up painful fights to reunite.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA and ANAM.VALDES Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1472 words


Encarnacion Bail Romero has not seen her 5-year-old son, Carlos, since he was 7
months old. That was in May 2007, when the undocumented Guatemalan woman was
arrested in an immigration raid at a Missouri poultry plant where she worked.

Like the great majority of illegal laborers, she was working with false
documents, but unlike most detained workers, she was convicted of "aggravated
identity theft" and sentenced to two years in prison.

Less than five months after she was detained, a foster couple who had taken
Carlos in moved to have her stripped of her parental rights. They adopted Carlos
the following year, 2008.

Detentions and deportations of illegal workers have caused an increase in
children in foster care nationwide, leaving some undocumented parents fighting
to keep their kids from being adopted by U.S. citizen caregivers.

In some cases, federal and state authorities never learn that the deported
workers have children at home. Those minors are left in the care of friends or
family, and the Florida Department of Children and Families knows nothing about
them. Those situations can put the children at risk.

While some states have protocols for dealing with children whose parents have
been deported, Florida does not. But the consulates of Mexico and Guatemala in
Miami are pressing for such standard practices to be adopted here.

"Every state should issue a foster care policy saying what steps should be taken
to reunite families," said attorney John De Leon, who represents the consulates
and also intervened in the Bail Romero case. "Judges don't know what to do. They
need policies for dealing with the consulates of the countries involved. They
need policies to put kids on planes so they can be back with their families."

Bail Romero was released from prison in 2009, and three months later the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled that the charge leveled against her should no longer be
employed in cases like hers.

But that did her little good at the time. Her son belonged to someone else and
she was not allowed to see him.

"I never gave my consent for the boy to be adopted by anyone," she told an ABC
News interviewer. "I need him to feel my love. I'm the mother of Carlitos and I
need him to be with me soon."

In January 2011, the Missouri Supreme Court ruled that Bail Romero had been
unfairly stripped of her parental rights, but remanded the case to lower courts.
She now lives just blocks from her son but still hasn't seen him.

Florida's DCF keeps no records on the number of children who enter state care
due to their parents' immigration problems, agency spokeswoman Erin Gillespie
said.

She stressed that DCF's commitment is to protect all children who may be at
risk, "and the decisions on how to do that are done on a case-by-case basis."
But she added: "We would certainly be open to discussing any change in protocol
that would improve our system and benefit the children and families who we work
with."

The issue has gained urgency as the number of people deported in recent years
has climbed. In fiscal 2011, 396,000 people were deported after being detained
by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. More than 1 million have been deported
under the Obama administration.

As of last summer, 5,100 children in 22 states, including Florida, were in
foster care because their parents either were in immigration detention or had
been deported, according to a recent report by the Applied Research Center of
New York. Most of those children are U.S.-born citizens.

Nestor Yglesias, Florida spokesman for ICE, said his agency tries to avoid
situations in which children of immigration law violators have to be put in
foster care.

"ICE is sensitive to the fact that encountering those who violate our
immigration laws may impact families," he said.

ICE often will release a person from custody when that person is "the sole
caregiver of minors and when we are aware that the detention of a noncriminal
alien would result in any child -- U.S. citizen or not -- being left without a
parental caregiver," he said.

"For parents who are ordered removed, it is their decision whether or not to
relocate their children with them," Yglesias added. "If parents choose to take
their U.S. citizen children with them, ICE assists in every way possible,
including helping to obtain passports."

But it doesn't always work that way.

In at least two cases -- Bail Romero's case in Missouri and another Guatemalan
family's case in Nebraska -- undocumented parents were detained by ICE, and
state authorities terminated their parental rights after foster families claimed
that the children had been abandoned.

"They weren't abandoned at all," attorney De Leon said. "Their parents were
deported or were in detention. And those children should never have been put up
for adoption. Those parents have exactly the same parental rights as anyone
else."

In both instances, the biological mothers sued and the Supreme Court in each
state overturned the decision of authorities to terminate the parental rights.

Florida has not faced such a case, and De Leon said the implementation of proper
protocols could avert such legal nightmares. He pointed to a memorandum of
agreement signed by the state of Illinois and the Mexican government in 2007.

The 10-page document cites international treaties that include provisions for
the protection of foreign minors and also lays out a protocol under which social
service agencies provide foreign consulates the name and birth date of any child
in state care, the name of the parent or custodian, and contacts for a
caseworker.

The agreement also creates a working relationship between social services
officials in Mexico and Illinois to assure that any child returned to a parent's
native land is returned to a safe environment.

"The Illinois document can serve as a model," De Leon said.

Some immigrant advocates are working locally to avoid the problem. Jupiter's
neighborhood resource center, El Sol, has asked undocumented parents to notarize
a document designating a legal guardian for their children.

"Hopefully (the notarized documents) will keep them out of the foster care
system," said El Sol attorney Jill Hanson. She said parents usually choose a
guardian who is a legal resident or citizen to ensure their kids can remain in
the U.S.

DCF's Gillespie said that in most cases the children of deported parents are
taken in by friends or relatives and never come to the agency's attention.

"In the vast majority of cases we will have no involvement," she said. "I'm sure
it happens more than we know."

For deported parents, taking the child with them is often not an option because
of the dire poverty they will face back home, said Ruth Doran, former executive
director of the Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth.

"They know what they are going home to is so abysmal that any reality here is
going to be better than what they are going to," Doran said.

But children left behind can end up at risk and often wander from house to house
without DCF ever knowing they are in this country alone, Doran said.

"We had children coming in from off the street," she said. "I thought about
creating some kind of a home for children who are U.S. citizens."

Even children left with a relative are often not spared from trouble. Doran
recalled the story of a 16-year-old boy who was left with an uncle in Palm Beach
County.

"As soon as the father left to Guatemala, the uncle wanted him to drop out of
school and work to make money," she said.

When children end up in DCF care and the only offense committed by the parents
was an immigration offense, the agency works to get the children back with their
parents quickly in their native countries, Gillespie said.

"We work really hard to reunite families," Gillespie said. "I know cases where
we have sent the children back right away."

De Leon agreed that in cases where the only offense is immigration-related, the
system tends to work smoothly in Florida and parents can be reunited with their
kids. But when parents have had any criminal run-in, he said, the social service
system will break up those families much more quickly than it would try to do
with a U.S. citizen family.

"Parents don't lose their parental rights just because they have been accused of
a criminal offense," said De Leon, adding that adopting protocols involving
consular officials would help ensure children's safety and prevent broken
families.

Gillespie left the door open for better cooperation with foreign governments,
but emphasized the bottom line for DCF.

"Our priority is each child's safety and well-being and we work with a team of
people -- attorneys, judges, parents' attorneys, guardians ad litem, case
managers -- to determine each individual child's best interest and then work
with the court system to try and make that happen," she said.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Missouri case could set precedent for Florida legal system

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Man accused of smuggling 12 Dominicans, Jamaicans

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA SELTZER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 248 words


A 24-year-old Bahamian man is being held in federal custody after investigators
say he attempted to smuggle people from the Dominican Republic and Jamaica, some
of whom are felons, to South Florida.

Cordero Seymour pleaded not guilty last week to charges of bringing in and
harboring aliens.

Federal agents intercepted a boat off of Palm Beach on Oct. 27. After using an
airplane to try to stop the boat 4 to 6 miles offshore, U.S. Customs and Border
Protection agents fired two warning shots and one directly at the boat's engine
after the boat fled in the direction of the Bahamas, according to a federal
complaint.

U.S. Coast Guard and Border Protection boats caught up with the boat and found
14 people on board. None of them had documents allowing them into the country,
the complaint says. The boat was towed to the Coast Guard station. About two
days later the 14 -- nine Dominicans, three Jamaicans and two Bahamians -- were
taken from the Coast Guard station in Lake Worth to Border Patrol in Riviera
Beach. Their ages range from 23 to 46.

One of the Dominicans told investigators Seymour offered them a trip to Miami
for $3,000, the complaint says.

Seymour admitted to driving the vessel and identified the other Bahamian on the
boat, Donald Higgs, 23, as his partner, according to the complaint.

Two of the Jamaicans and one Dominican allegedly are felons who were previously
removed from the country. They are being charged with re-entry of a deported
alien.

~alexandra_seltzer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Law-changing battle against human trafficking earns her top Scout rank

BYLINE: By Randall P. Lieberman Special to Palm Beach Post

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD POST; Pg. 4N

LENGTH: 548 words


JUPITER -- Julia Joy McBee knows first-hand the thrills of swimming, the virtues
of Scouting and the beauty of singing. Her passion, however, lies in crushing
the ugliest thing she's ever known.

The Jupiter resident and Dreyfoos School of the Arts senior has made the fight
against human trafficking her cause. It became the topic of her Girl Scout Gold
Award project, the highest achievement in Girl Scouting, which she earned in
May.

She also helped the effort to pass a bill through the Florida Legislature
imposing tougher penalties on those convicted of human trafficking -- and was
present when Gov. Rick Scott signed the bill into law June 12.

McBee, 17, learned of the issue through a family friend, Aimee Cernicharo
Cabral, a human-rights attorney for St. Thomas University in Miami. Cabral told
McBee how immigrants were being smuggled in and out of the country, deceived and
forced to work as prostitutes, some in chains.

"I was shocked," McBee said. "As I discussed this with my friends at school, it
became clear they didn't know what was going on right in our backyard ... "

McBee felt compelled to help the victims. Cabral was McBee's executive adviser
for her Gold Award, Girl Scouting's version of Eagle Scout. The project required
"countless hours researching ... and advocating to create awareness of the harsh
reality of human trafficking."She worked with Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart,
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, tobuild support for the bill among
state lawmakers.

McBee also became involved with and serves on the Frederick Douglass Family
Foundation, a global organization dealing with human trafficking, and serves on
its student board of advisers.

"There is much work to be done to create awareness of modern-day slavery," she
said. "My Girl Scout Gold Award project has changed my life. I want to continue
to help the innocent victims of human trafficking. I plan to apply to colleges
to focus on social services and international relations, and perhaps become a
human-rights attorney."

To help or to get more details, email McBee at julia@mcbee.net What have you
learned about human trafficking that is most important to convey to others?

Florida is a haven for human traffickers due to our international ports,
Hispanic populations and large homeless and runaway populations. Many victims do
not speak English and are unable to communicate with service providers, police
or others who might be able to help them. They also are often too scared to ask
for help."

What can people do about human trafficking in our area?

I want our community to know that human trafficking is happening right here in
Palm Beach County. It happens in plush gated communities, restaurants,
agriculture, nail salons, strip bars, massage parlors and other nearby places.
We need to be vigilant, question what we see and call the Trafficking
Information and Referral Hotline -- (888) 373-7888 -- and police.

Who are your heroes?

"All my heroes share my dream, which is to eradicate modern-day slavery. They
help the scared and intimidated victims of human trafficking; it's the FBI,
police, FPI, social workers, attorneys, volunteers at human trafficking
coalitions and safe houses, the Frederick Douglas Foundation, and legislators
and the governor, who passed and signed HB 7049."

Q&A

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  MEET YOUR NEIGHBOR: Julia joy mcbee, age 17  Northern Palm Beach County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Smugglers moving up coast;
Patrols in Keys, Miami make PB County target.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 984 words


It began as a midnight chase by the U.S. Coast Guard during an early March
morning on the south end of Palm Beach. It ended with a Bahamian boat captain's
arrest and the detention of two Jamaican men in a case of suspected human
smuggling.

On an early morning in June, Jupiter Island Police and U.S. Border Patrol agents
located a group of 10 people from Haiti in another case of human smuggling.

And on Monday, two people told border agents they came to the shores of Palm
Beach from the Dominican Republic with a total of seven people.

From human smuggling to drugs, criminal organizations have been targeting the
shores of Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast in recent years, local
officials said.

Edward Thompson, the Homeland Security agent in charge for the Palm Beach County
and Treasure Coast areas, said, "It has been a trend for the last couple of
years of like a northern migration of those types of crimes."

While the Miami area and Florida Keys still remain popular destinations for
human and drug smuggling, Thompson said he thinks heavy enforcement and
prosecutions in those areas may be one reason criminals are targeting local
shores more often. However, Thompson added that smuggling operations, including
many operating primarily out of the Bahamas, have been a concern for the area
for many years.

"That marine threat has always been there," he said. "It's historical here in
South Florida. There have always been organizations in the Bahamas that have
been in position to smuggle contraband or migrants, drugs, etc."

A report from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection said that because the
country has been more diligent in protecting inland borders in recent years,
criminal organizations are using the seas more to smuggle humans and contraband.

And while the number of maritime immigrant landings has remained consistent over
the past three years in this area, authorities said it's a concern.

According to data provided by that agency, there have been 15 known maritime
landings involving 87 immigrants from Oct. 1, 2011, through the end of August in
Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie counties.

During the previous fiscal year -- from Oct. 1, 2010, to Oct. 1, 2011 -- there
were 13 known landings involving 79 immigrants. And from Oct. 1, 2009, to Oct.
1, 2010, there were 16 known maritime landings involving 170 immigrants.

Those with smuggling activity involved immigrants from the Bahamas, Jamaica,
Haiti, Cuba and the Dominican Republic -- and some from as far away as China,
Sri Lanka and Romania.

"We do get a lot of different nationalities," said Michael Flanagan, the deputy
chief patrol agent for the Miami sector of Customs and Border Protection. "There
are smugglers that exploit the proximity of the Florida coastline to the
Bahamas, and they do exploit the proximity to Cuba with South Florida as well.
The coastline in Florida is huge, it's very large and there are a ton of
legitimate vessels out there, and our job is try to find the bad guy in the
midst of all those legitimate good guys."

Flanagan said that the number of marine-related incidents his agency has
investigated has remained consistent the past few years, but he noted that there
have been several smuggling prosecutions in the West Palm Beach area in recent
years.

"There are a lot of smugglers over the last year, or even two years, that we
have successfully prosecuted and held accountable," Flanagan said. "We'll
continue to do that. That's our goal, and we feel like that's the best way to
successfully disrupt these smuggling organizations that are attempting to
exploit the coastline."

To that point, earlier this year, three men were sentenced to prison terms for
participating in a smuggling operation based out of suburban West Palm Beach.
Abdiel Agustin Borges, Yoel Ortiz and Fabiano Augusto Amorim were arrested after
agents intercepted a vessel at sea on Feb. 16 near Stuart.

Prosecutors alleged that the men organized an operation to smuggle 11 Brazilian
citizens and a Peruvian citizen out of the Bahamas. Borges was sentenced in July
to 15 months in prison and 24 months of supervised release; Ortiz was sentenced
in August to 36 months in prison; and Amorim was sentenced in September to 36
months in prison.

Court records show that their operation had been under surveillance since
October 2011 and that Homeland Security special agents had been tracking the
men's movements at addresses in West Palm Beach and suburban West Palm Beach.

Borges was operating the vessel that smuggled the immigrants, while Ortiz and
Amorim had traveled to a park in Hobe Sound to meet them, authorities said.

Ortiz, who resides in suburban West Palm Beach according to court documents,
told investigators that he is owner of the vessel and that he loaned it to
Borges to go fishing. He denied having knowledge of smuggling or receiving
compensation. Amorim, a Brazilian citizen who lives in Boston, told
investigators that he was aware of Brazilian nationals being brought into the
United States and that he received $200 for each person on board, according to
court records. Borges, who is a U.S. citizen, said that he has been friends with
Ortiz for several years and that Ortiz introduced him to Amorim to work as a
boat driver, the court records show.

In another case that ended in August, two Bahamian men, Wardell Hall and Rico
Jerome Miller, pleaded guilty in federal court in West Palm Beach to attempting
to smuggle six people into the United States. Federal prosecutors alleged that
in April, passengers from Trinidad, Ecuador and Jamaica paid the men $2,400 to
travel from the Bahamas to Miami. However, the boat became disabled near the St.
Lucie Inlet and was intercepted by a Coast Guard cutter.

"They're criminal organizations that are profiting, or trying to profit by
exploiting the coastline," Flanagan said. "That's our highest priority to is
dismantle those organizations."

jwhigham@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ditching Arizona's model ;
 Legislature should reject even toned-down bill

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 467 words


Last week, Senate Judiciary Chairwoman Anitere Flores, R-Miami, ticked off a
crowd of people who had trekked to Tallahassee to speak against a bill that
cracks down on illegal immigration. Rushing through a full agenda, Sen. Flores
told would-be speakers to "waive in support" -- waive their right to make a
statement and just indicate a position. Anybody who wanted to talk, she said,
must make his point in five seconds.

Stymied, most waived. A majority in the audience was opposed, but the panel
approved the bill, 5-2. It's on today's Budget Committee agenda.

Our five-second characterization of Senate Bill 2040 would be this: The House
bill, sponsored by Rep. William Snyder, R-Stuart, is Arizona Lite, and the
Senate bill is Snyder Lite. And that's a good thing.

Illegal aliens were the villains in a lot of last year's campaign ads,
especially from Gov. Scott in the Republican primary. But the issue has cooled.
Budget woes and union-bashing displaced it in the legislative session. Business
interests and law-enforcement concerns have helped to back Florida away from
Arizona's law. Tourism officials are afraid of boycotts. Farmers worry that they
won't be able to hire enough workers. Sheriffs and police chiefs say they don't
have the resources to do the Border Patrol's job.

Those concerns were evident last week at the Judiciary Committee hearing.
Business groups joined immigrant advocates in opposition. And even as it rushed
to move the bill along, the panel took the time to approve an amendment that
would make aspects of local cooperation with federal immigration efforts
voluntary instead of mandatory.

The House bill, HB 7089, is on Thursday's Economic Affairs agenda. That bill
makes it a state crime to be in Florida illegally and increases penalties for
crimes committed by illegal aliens. Its tougher stance would be more likely to
tread on federal authority. That threat increased Monday when a federal appeals
court ruled that a lower-court judge had the power to block Arizona's law for
usurping federal jurisdiction.

We support efforts to identify illegal immigrants who commit crimes and hand
them over for deportation. But that is happening now, and doesn't require a new
state law. We understand state frustration with federal failure to enact
immigration reform. But even relatively simple steps, such as the requirement in
both the House and Senate bills that employers use the federal E-Verify system,
can entangle Florida in legal fights with the feds that only will increase the
frustration.

Florida legislators have tempered their anti-immigration laws. But they should
take the final step of acknowledging that illegal immigration is a federal issue
and waive further attempts to make it a state responsibility.

-- Jac Wilder VerSteeg,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legislature inexplicably bows to business, rejects E-Verify

BYLINE: Sid Dinerstein

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 607 words


By SID DINERSTEIN

Is Florida now a sanctuary for illegal aliens? The recent legislative session
saw Florida roll out the welcome mat for illegal aliens just as Alabama,
Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina were pulling theirs in. The Florida
Legislature had a serious immigration bill in its hopper. It became known as the
E-Verify bill.

E-Verify is an electronic inquiry system where you punch in the Social Security
number and you get a "Legal" or "Illegal" response. E-Verify was to be used for
prospective employees and prospective public benefit recipients.

The Florida Legislature, overwhelmingly Republican, voted it down. Ten
Republican senators joined all the Democratic senators to kill it. The House
never brought the bill to the floor for a vote.

What happened? Simply put, the Florida business community went all in for the
illegals. Cheap labor won out over the rule of law. The farm community
explicitly said that without the illegals their crops could not be picked and
their farms could not survive.

Basically, business has three choices:

1) Go illegal. This alternative requires the farmer to disregard the legality of
his hiring decisions for the benefit of cheap labor. The farmer gets the break
on wages. The community (us) gets the shaft on offloaded costs for education,
health care, crime and food stamps.

2) Hire American. This alternative is harder than it sounds. Crop-picking is
hot, hard, backbreaking and poorly paid. Farmers compete with the "safety net"
for American employees, often losing out to food stamps and unemployment
insurance. Clearly, there is a price at which some American will do this work.
But nobody has ever figured out how much that is and whether the farm would
still have economic viability.

3) H-2A visas. This alternative in existing federal law is explicitly written to
solve the farmers' seasonal picking needs. Under this program the farmer
prequalifies foreign workers willing to do a specific job for a specific amount
of time. The farmer commits to paying the "prevailing" wage, supplying housing,
meals, workers' compensation insurance, transportation daily to and from the job
and transportation from and to their home country. The major advantage for the
farmer is that everything and everyone is legal. The disadvantage to the farmer
is obvious. It's more expensive than it is to just hire illegals. The advantages
to the community are huge. No costs for education, health care, insurance or
food stamps.

Why aren't all the farmers using the H-2A visa program? My only answer is cost.
Illegals are cheaper for them and more expensive for us.

Illegal immigration remains a hot-button economic and political issue. The
Democrats see millions of new voters and some number of new welfare recipients,
while the (mostly Republican) business community sees cheap labor. Most of
America sees high public costs and a shredding of our social fabric and the rule
of law.

We could have our cake and eat it too. We could increase the number of legal
immigrants while making employment and public assistance off-limits to illegal
immigrants. We could reward those foreigners who followed the rules and went to
the U.S. Embassy in their country and put themselves on the waiting list. And we
would thereby encourage the line-crashers to self-deport.

The plea here is for the rule of law to trump below-market wages, lobbyists and
the willful ignoring of the oaths of our elected officials. From my vantage
point as a Republican Party official I can truly say that our recent performance
in Tallahassee on this issue did not make me proud.

Sid Dinerstein is Palm Beach County Republican Party chairman.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC  FLORIDA: THE SOUTHERN SANCTUARY STATE

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Use of guest workers draws fire ;
 Residents won't take service jobs, employers;
say

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2224 words


While Palm Beach County unemployment remains above 10 percent -- higher for
unskilled labor -- country clubs and luxury resorts are importing foreign guest
workers to fill hundreds of jobs that are listed as seasonal but last most of
the year.

The U.S. Department of Labor approved the importation of 6,484 foreign workers
by Florida firms using guest worker visas -- called H-2B visas -- for the
2010-11 year. Palm Beach County employers were certified for 1,579, 24.4
percent, the most in the state.

Nationwide, 86,596 such visas were issued last year, making the county's numbers
extraordinary.

Of that county total, 98 percent were approved for resorts and country clubs.
The rest were almost all animal caretakers in the horse show industry. Some
farmworkers also are employed legally, but on a different type visa issued to
agricultural employers.

Additional foreign workers are imported under U.S. State Department four-month
trainee and intern visas called J-1's. Florida employers were approved for 1,902
such visas in the past year. No county figures were available, but employers
said some of those were used by workers in the local hospitality industry.

Jorge Avellana, executive director of Palm Beach County Hispanic Human Resources
Council, is a critic.

"It's hard to believe that they can be allowed to do something like this when
the unemployment rate in Palm Beach County is so high," Avellana said. "All
kinds of Americans are out of work. At this time, any job is a good job."

John Crean, chief operating officer of the Broken Sound Club in Boca Raton,
defends the system. About 70 of his 350 employees during the recent eight-month
season were either H-2Bs or J-1s, including waiters, dining room captains and
golf course employees.

"I don't know why it's so difficult to find the workers here, but it is," says
Crean. "We are happy to hire the local individual, but we just can't find enough
of them."

The majority of the hotel and country club jobs taken by H-2B workers last
between 7 1/2 and 10 months per year. Employers must attest that they cannot
find U.S. workers to fill the positions and must pay the "prevailing wage"
earned by U.S. workers in those lines of work.

Cheaper for employers

According to federal records, the positions filled by foreign workers and the
hourly wages they were to be paid last season were: housekeepers, $7.44 to
$11.64; waiters and waitresses, $8.07 to $10.61; cooks and cooks' helpers; $9.85
to $12; dining room attendants, $7.88 to $10.25; porters, $10.40; landscape
workers, $9 to $11; bartenders, $10. Servers and bartenders generally do not
earn tips.

H-2B workers are not eligible for unemployment compensation and employers also
save by not having to pay for benefits such as health care. Employers are
legally obligated to pay to transport workers from foreign countries and the
recruitment process, but Florida Legal Services attorneys are now suing many
employers who, they say, have not paid those expenses, making workers pay
instead.

Most importantly, a worker who enters the country on an H-2B visa can work for
only one employer, cannot change jobs while on that visa, and is not entitled to
higher wages than those agreed to at the time of hiring.

Greg Schell, a Florida Legal Services attorney who has defended guest workers in
disputes with employers, says the visas are overused in Florida.

He says that in one case, the Naples-area owner of Subway sandwich shops
received permission to bring in Jamaican H-2B workers to staff his counters.
"You're telling me you can't find people to work in a Subway or to work as
waiters?"

Schell says the provision that ties H-2B workers to one employer helps keep
local "prevailing wages" down. "The employers use H-2B workers because it turns
out cheaper for them," he says. "Those workers can't change jobs and look for
better wages and better situations elsewhere."

Schell says if guest worker jobs didn't exist, "employers would have to pay more
in wages and better benefits to attract and keep local workers."

According to the website www.foreignworkers.com, which promotes the use of J-1
visas, those workers also save employers money.

"J-1 workers are temporary residents and are exempt from Social Security,
Medicare and unemployment taxes," says the website. "For example, hiring five
full-time J-1 workers for a four-month period could save you over $2,000."

"The J-1 visa is also a scam," Schell says. "It was founded as a cultural
exchange program during the Kennedy years, but those people just come to work."

Crean, an Irish immigrant, disagrees. "This country was built by immigrants who,
right off the boat, worked hard and even in tough times we shouldn't be shutting
them out. It's a mistake."

The largest importer of H-2B workers in Florida is a Palm Beach Gardens firm.
Workaway Staffing was approved to bring in 810 workers for the 2010-11 season,
according to federal figures. The company website lists 14 Palm Beach County
country clubs as clients.

Workaway President William Mayville said the workers come from South Africa and
Romania and all speak English. He said his clients must import the workers
because "most people don't want seasonal work" and "you don't see Americans
wanting to get into the (hospitality) industry."

He said his country club clients had repeatedly attended local job fairs, but
have hired very few participants. Mayville said the last time his firm was
involved in such a fair, about 60 job seekers attended, about 40 were offered
positions, but only about 10 people who accepted employment cleared background
checks and "only six made it through the season," compared to the hundreds
brought in from overseas.

Missed opportunities?

But Patrick Franklin, president of the Urban League in Palm Beach County, said
the job fairs are news to him.

"We help people find jobs and I've never heard of these job fairs," he said. "In
low-income areas, our unemployment rate is at least 20 percent. We need more
effort on the part of these country clubs and hotels to find local workers."

Mayville said he and his clients had tried in the past to work with the
Workforce Alliance, the local government entity that helps Floridians find jobs,
but said he had found the Alliance "is not built to be a recruiting arm."

But Tom Veenstra, spokesman for the local Workforce Alliance, said he didn't
know the firm.

"To the best of our knowledge, we have not had any contact with Workaway
Staffing," he said in an email.

Another state employment official, speaking off the record and referring to the
importation of H-2B workers throughout the county hospitality industry, said:
"There are local people here who would want these jobs, but a lot of these
employers just aren't looking very hard."

According to federal regulations, would-be employers of H-2B workers must post
ads for available jobs in question on the state-sponsored website -- Employ
Florida Marketplace -- for 10 days. The employer also must advertise jobs in a
local general interest newspaper one Sunday and one other day per year. Workaway
advertised last year in The Palm Beach Post on June 20 and 21.

A sample ad from those days read this way:

"S E R V E R S -- 324 Temporary jobs (10/15/2010-05/31/2011) at multiple
locations in Palm Beach County, Martin County, Miami-Dade County & Indian River
County; Work shifts vary starting at 6AM-11PM; 40 hrs/wk; $10/hr, O/T $15/hr as
needed."

The basic serving duties were listed, followed by: "Drug testing, fluent in
English & pass police clearance. No exp. req'd."

The company also recruits for those same server positions and other H-2B jobs
via its company website. Those ads are much more inviting in tone and display
color images of smiling young employees:

"Workaway International provides you with an opportunity to spend 6 months
working in the exciting environment of a world class country club in the USA,"
the ad says. "Earn US dollars while you work and gain valuable international
experience. Watch your skills improve and your resume expand.

"It's a great way to interact with people from other countries," the ad
continues. "Have the experience of a lifetime. ... The opportunities are
endless."

Changes proposed

The Palm Beach Post tried to make contact with all hospitality and country club
venues that were approved to import H-2B workers in Palm Beach County. Three
that responded, in addition to Crean of Broken Sound, were The Breakers in Palm
Beach, which was approved for 158 H-2B workers, but said it had brought in 138;
Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago, 98 approved, 47 employed; and Jupiter Hills Country
Club in Tequesta, which brought in seven workers.

A few employers couldn't be reached and many others didn't respond. But the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce is an outspoken supporter of H-2B visas.

"Many American businesses could not function without the H-2B program," the
chamber said last year in response to program critics. "The H-2B visa program
does not depress wages of U.S. workers in similar occupations and H-2B workers
do not take jobs from their U.S. counterparts."

But the U.S. Department of Labor has found problems with the H-2B system and is
proposing changes.

Before 2008, local workforce alliances had the ability to oversee the local
recruitment process before H-2B visas were issued. But changes in the
regulations that year allowed employers to simply attest that they needed the
foreign workers and could not find locals to fill the positions.

Those new rules "do not provide an adequate level of protection for either U.S.
or foreign workers," according to a Labor Department request for comment printed
in the Federal Register on March 18.

Changes are needed "to prevent adverse effect on ages and working conditions for
U.S. workers and to ensure access to jobs for U.S. workers in order to satisfy
the statutory requirement that certifications be granted only if no U.S. workers
are available," the Labor Department document said.

"Federal investigators found employers are attesting to compliance with program
obligations with which they have not complied, and that employers do not appear
to be recruiting, hiring and paying U.S. workers, and in some cases the H-2B
workers themselves, in accordance with established program requirements."

Staff researchers Michelle Quigley and Niels Heimeriks contributed to this
story.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Hiring foreign guest workers

Rule: When entering the U.S. as H2-B guest workers, they can work only for the
employer who sponsored them. They cannot change employers without being
certified again for a new visa.

Benefit to employer: Stabilizes the workforce.

Rule:H2-B employees must work for the wage agreed to, or go home. Benefit to
employer:Avoids being outbid for workers or being forced to raise wages.

Rule:Employers do not have to pay into the unemployment compensation fund, and
in almost all instances guest workers do not get benefits from employers, such
as health care.

Benefit to employer: Saves money.

Guest workers

The following is a list of resort hotels and country clubs in Palm Beach County
and the number of guest workers they were allowed to import for the 2010-2011
year.

The positions included:Servers, housekeepers, dining room attendants, cooks and
cooks' helpers, lifeguards, recreation facility attendants, porters and
landscaping workers. The actual number of employees imported by a venue is
included in parentheses, if the employer provided the information.

* The Breakers Hotel, Palm Beach: 158 approved(138 employed).

* Polo Club of Boca Raton: 114.

* Ibis Golf and Country Club, West Palm Beach: 16.

* Lost Tree Club, North Palm Beach: 37.

* Mar-a-Lago, Palm Beach: housekeepers, 89(47 employed).

* Marriott Vacation Club, Palm Shores: 32.

* Fountains Country Club, Lake Worth: 19.

* Westchester Golf Club, Boynton Beach: 15.

* Four Seasons Resort, Palm Beach: 14.

* Broken Sound Club, Boca Raton: servers, 50 (20-25 employed, plus 40-45 workers
under a separate program called J-1).

* Ritz Carlton Golf & Spa, Jupiter: 29.

* Everglades Club, Palm Beach: 75.

* Jonathan's Landing Golf Club, Jupiter: dining room attendants, 23.

Workaway Staffing, Palm Beach Gardens, was certified to import 794 total workers
for the following employers: Addison Reserve Country Club, Delray Beach;
BallenIsles, Palm Beach Gardens; Boca Grove Plantation, Boca Raton; Boca Rio,
Boca Raton; Boca West Country Club, Boca Raton; Country Club at Mirasol, Palm
Beach Gardens; Glen Eagles Country Club, Delray Beach; Hunters Run, Boynton
Beach; Jupiter Hills, Tequesta; The Club at Admiral's Cove, Jupiter; Palm Beach
Country Club, Palm Beach; Pine Tree Golf Club, Boynton Beach; Quail Ridge
Country Club, Boynton Beach; St. Andrews Country Club, Boca Raton; Wycliffe Golf
and Country Club, Lake Worth.

Source: U.S. Department of LaborAds differ to attract workers

Employ Florida Marketplace: According to federal regulations, would-be employers
of H-2B workers must post ads for available jobs in question on the
state-sponsored website for 10 days.

NEWSPAPER: The employer also must advertise in a local general interest
newspaper one Sunday and one other day per year. An example of a Workaway ad
from The Palm Beach Post is seen to the right.

WEBSITE: The company also recruits for those same server positions and other
H-2B jobs via its own website, below. Those ads are much more inviting in tone
and feature images of smiling young employees.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WATCHDOG EXCLUSIVEForeign workersMore on guest workers  Compare foreign
workers certified for 2010-2011 in Palm Beach County. PalmBeach
Post.com/go/guestworkers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Minority leaders: Curb imported workers ;
 Employers not seriously seeking local labor, county activists charge.

BYLINE: BY JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 826 words


Leaders in the Palm Beach County minority community are calling for changes to
procedures that country clubs and resorts use to import hundreds of foreign
workers every year, and say they can supply U.S. citizens to fill those jobs.

One community leader called for abolition of the "guest worker" program.

Last Sunday, The Palm Beach Post published a story listing some of the county's
top resorts and more than a dozen country clubs that import foreign workers for
jobs they classify as "seasonal" but most of which last seven to 10 months.

The U.S. Labor Department made 1,500 of the guest worker H-2B visas available
over the past year for Palm Beach County employers, to bring in workers for such
jobs as waiter, waitress, cook, housekeeper and golf range attendant, among
others. The State Department provided additional visas, known as J-1's.

Before they import the workers, employers must attest that local U.S. citizens
are not available for those jobs. But leaders of local NAACP and Urban League
chapters, as well as the executive director of the Hispanic Human Resources
Council, said this week that those employers are not seriously recruiting
workers locally, at a time when the county's unemployment rate is over 10
percent and at least twice that in the minority communities.

Jorge Avellana of the Hispanic Human Resources Council sent letters of protest
Thursday to U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson, a Democrat, and Marco Rubio, a Republican,
and to U.S. Reps. Allen West, R-Plantation; Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta; Ted Deutch,
D-Boca Raton; and Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar.

"I was very disturbed on Sunday morning when reading The Palm Beach Post,"
Avellana wrote in his letters. "I found out that many local businesses are
importing unskilled labor from Romania ... South Africa and other countries to
work in the tourism business at the expense of the American workers.

"I hope that the Senate and Congress will repeal the H-2B visa and force the
local industry to hire local workers," he said.

Avellana's plea comes as most employers who use H-2B workers are applying to the
Department of Labor for permission to import workers for the fall season.

The largest importer of foreign workers in the county is Workaway Staffing of
Palm Beach Gardens, which supplies employees to at least 14 country clubs in
Palm Beach County. Other employers include some of the county's landmark
resorts, such as The Breakers and Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach; Ritz-Carlton Golf
Club and Spa of Jupiter; and Marriott Vacation Club of Palm Beach Shores. None
returned requests for comment Friday.

Local Urban League President Patrick Franklin said he was not ready to turn to
Washington for a remedy.

"We have a history of helping clients find people to fill jobs," Franklin said.
"We need those employers to come to us, to form a partnership with us and the
other community-based organizations. They should cooperate with us on job fairs
that will allow us to introduce them to people in our community. There are good,
qualified people out there who can fill these positions and we can corral them
for the employers.

"And if there is training that needs to be done, we can start a job training
program that we can cooperate on with the employers," he said. "I would
encourage that cooperation, but if that doesn't work, then yes, maybe the rules
need to be changed in Washington."

Lia Gaines, president of the West Palm Beach NAACP chapter, said the current
local recruitment process is inadequate. Employers who want to bring workers on
H-2B visas must place an ad in a local general interest newspaper for two days
during the year and must also post the ad for 10 days on the state's website for
the unemployed, Employ Florida Marketplace.

"That isn't enough of an effort," Gaines said. "Just putting an ad in the
newspaper or on a website doesn't prove anything. We need better proof that
these foreign workers aren't taking jobs from locals and we also need better
proof that bringing in these workers from outside the country isn't hurting
local wages. How do we know that what (the employers) are saying is true?"

Both Gaines and Avellana also expressed concern for H-2B workers, who enter the
country with permission to work for a specific employer and cannot change jobs
without obtaining another visa. They must also work for the wage specified in
their contract and are not entitled to raises or benefits.

Gaines said involving local community organizations was one way to find local
workers.

"I'm not going to tell them exactly what to do," Gaines said. "But they should
be required to expend as much energy in marketing jobs locally as they seem to
be exerting in bringing workers from the outside in order to cut their costs.

"Cutting costs and increasing profits is what drives this idea of bringing in
workers," she said. "If they hire local workers, yes, it will cost them a bit of
money in benefits and wages, but it's the socially conscious thing to do."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Importing workers   See how many foreign workers are employed at Palm
Beach County businesses. PalmBeachPost.com/go/guestworkersZ Require employers to
look harder for U.S. workers. Editorial, 14A

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Close country-club loophole

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 534 words


When your business is importing foreign workers to take restaurant and catering
jobs that you claim Americans won't do themselves, you and your country-club
clients are bound to take some heat. But trying to hide online?

After last week's Post analysis showed that WorkAway International, a Palm Beach
Gardens company, was responsible for nearly one of every 100 foreigners brought
into the United States on temporary H-2B work visas last year, the company
quickly removed from its website a list of clients that prefer hiring foreigners
to looking harder for local employees. Among them: BallenIsles Country Club in
Palm Beach Gardens, Gleneagles Country Club west of Delray Beach, The Club at
Admirals Cove in Jupiter and Sailfish Point in Stuart.

Restaurants and diners across the country manage to find local workers, most of
them legal, but to hear WorkAway International's president tell it, few
Americans deign to work at his clients' lush havens. With seeming sincerity,
WorkAway's president, William Mayville, told The Post's John Lantigua: "You
don't see Americans wanting to get into the (hospitality) industry."

To believe that, you would have to live in a rarefied world indeed. The more
likely story is that Palm Beach County's resorts and country clubs have learned
that importing foreign workers is cheaper, easier and more advantageous than
searching for locals, even in a region with 10 percent unemployment.

Last year, the federal government gave 86,000 H-2B work visas to foreigners to
come to the United States and work in temporary, low-skilled nonagricultural
jobs. More than 1,500 were for Palm Beach County employers, according to The
Post's analysis. That extraordinary figure -- nearly 2 percent of all such visas
nationwide -- is even more striking considering the unemployment rate.

Businesses that use these foreign workers must pay them wages in line with
industry standards, so what's the advantage? Plenty. Companies save money on
health care and don't have to worry about employees asking for a raise or
looking for higher-paying work. The visas don't let them switch jobs, subjecting
them to the whim of the companies that brought them. Many of these earnest
workers relish the chance to earn U.S. dollars, and some may have paid
unscrupulous third-party "recruiters" in their home countries, so they are much
more pliant than Americans who know their rights and are free to quit.

Temporary work visas do play a role in filling gaps in the U.S. labor pool. This
is especially true in agriculture, where the nature and location of the jobs
make hiring American workers challenging. We commented recently on the need to
reform how agricultural work visas are dispersed. This is even more the case for
nonagricultural visas.

Currently, employers merely have to show that they advertised for a position
locally before requesting approval to hire foreign workers. They should face a
higher burden to prove that they have exhausted reasonable efforts to hire
American workers. The manipulation of foreign laborers, both legal and illegal,
holds down wages and employment, and complicates efforts to pass wider
immigration reform.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSABUSE OF VISA LAWOPINION: THE
DEBATE   STARTS HERE  Are visa rules unfair to U.S.
workers?pbpost.com/go/opinionzoneVote now: Scan this code with your smartphone.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GUEST WORKER PROGRAM;
Legislators: Give locals dibs on hospitality jobs . Agency says thousands are
willing to do them.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 759 words


Members of Congress serving Palm Beach County on Tuesday pressed employers in
the local hospitality and country club industry to import fewer foreign workers
and insisted that unemployed Americans can fill those positions.

Their contentions were supported by the Palm Beach County unemployment office --
also known as the Workforce Alliance, which said it has 2,600 people on its
rolls seeking work as servers, kitchen staff, housekeepers and groundskeepers --
the same jobs going to foreign guest workers under federal visa programs.

A Palm Beach Post investigation revealed June 12 that local resorts and country
clubs had permission to import 1,552 workers during the 2010-11 season -- jobs
lasting seven to 10 months. When they applied for visas for those foreign
workers, employers attested that no local citizens were available to fill those
jobs.

"With record high unemployment in the United States and especially in South
Florida, it is not believable that there are jobs in the tourism business that
Americans are not willing to perform," U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, said
Tuesday. "I categorically reject that supposition.

"Secondly, if immigration law were changed to remove the incentives to employers
to import workers, more American workers would be employed," Hastings said.

Hastings said when employers do not offer health care or other benefits to
foreign workers, it affects the local labor market. "The fact that benefits are
not paid for foreign workers makes for cheap labor and presents an incentive to
employers to hire cheap labor," he said. "That incentive should be taken away."

U.S. Rep. Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton, also said changes are needed. "Guest worker
programs are meant to fill gaps in the workforce, but right now there is no
shortage of Americans looking for work," he said.

"Floridians are not looking for handouts, but they deserve a level playing
field. ... If employers are gaming the system and not vigorously advertising job
openings to the local community, that suggests an enforcement problem," Deutch
said, "and I will be bringing this issue to the attention of federal labor and
immigration officials."

In order to import workers rather than employ locals, employers need only
advertise twice per year in a local newspaper and post an ad for 10 days on the
statewide jobs website.

Like Deutch, Hastings took issue with those rules. "More needs to be done to
ensure companies are complying with existing law and also making a good-faith
effort to hire American workers," he said. "This should include requiring
companies to work with local organizations, through job fairs or other means, to
ensure members of the community are aware of these opportunities."

U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, speaking through his aide, Mike Mahaffey, said
the issue highlights a need for comprehensive immigration reform.

Mahaffey said Rooney hopes the press reports will encourage Floridians to apply
for these jobs. "If there are jobs here that American workers want, Congressman
Rooney would like to see them get those jobs over foreign workers," Mahaffey
said.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., stressed the need to modernize the immigration system,
including the use of federal E-Verify software to confirm the legal status of
all workers. Rubio's spokesman, Alex Burgos, said the concerns surrounding the
guest worker issue "are among the many areas that need to be explored as part of
this process."

Tom Veenstra, spokesman for the local Workforce Alliance unemployment office,
said that since June 1 some of the best known resorts in the county have posted
ads on the EmployFlorida.com website, one of the legal requirements to import
workers, "but have made no contact with Workforce Alliance."

They include the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club & Spa Jupiter; the Marriott resort on
Singer Island; and The Breakers, Palm Beach. The largest importer of foreign
workers in the county is Workaway Staffing of Palm Beach Gardens, which
represents at least 14 local country clubs, including the Palm Beach Country
Club; Ballen Isles of Palm Beach Gardens; Boca Grove Plantation; Boca Rio and
Boca West. Representatives of Workaway and the resorts did not return requests
for comment.

Veenstra said Workforce Alliance is considering a training program for
low-income adults ages 18 to 21 that would include hospitality skills and
customer service, tours of local venues, internships and job placement. The
program would be called Hospitality Occupation and Service Training job
preparation and could start as early as August.

~ John_Lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Alien labor' ads draw local anger ;
 Resort jobs open to foreigners spur effort to ensure locals get the work.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1092 words


Jobs are available in the Palm Beach County hospitality industry.

Since June 1, some of the county's poshest resorts and country clubs have posted
hundreds of open jobs on the state website EmployFlorida.com. They include 304
jobs for waiters and waitresses for country clubs, starting at $10 per hour,
posted by one company alone, Workaway Staffing of Palm Beach Gardens.

Also posted by Workaway are 88 jobs for server assistants at $9.50, "senior
servers" starting at $12.51, prep cooks at $10.64 and assistant dining room
managers at $15.70.

Those positions, like many others posted by hospitality industry employers
recently, require some work experience and last mostly from seven to 10 months,
although they can become permanent positions.

The jobs don't begin until the fall, but there is a reason employers are posting
them now. They are listed on the website in a special category: "Alien Labor
Certification."

That means that if the companies don't hire locals for the positions soon, those
employers can request visas from the federal government and fill the jobs with
guest workers from foreign countries.

Last year, despite countywide unemployment of more than 10 percent, local
resorts and country clubs were approved by the U.S. Department of Labor for
1,552 H-2B visas to import foreign workers, a Palm Beach Post investigation
revealed.

Florida employers also were approved by the Department of State for 1,900 J-1
visas, which allow employers to bring in interns and trainees from other
countries.

Many were used in Palm Beach County, although the exact number was not
available.

The importation of so many workers has been loudly criticized by members of
Congress and leaders of local minority communities, where unemployment is more
than 20 percent.

Friday's dismal report that only 18,000 jobs were created nationwide in June
intensified the issue.

According to Workforce Alliance, the nonprofit that helps Palm Beach County
residents find work, and U.S. Rep. Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton, who has become
active on the issue, discussions are under way with some employers that could
create opportunities for local workers to win those jobs.

"Some progress is being made," said Deutch, who is setting up meetings with the
managers of local clubs to discuss their open jobs.

"The general managers of clubs have told me that they are committed to do
everything they can to hire domestically. We are hoping to see local people
placed in those jobs."

Before hiring foreign workers, employers must post ads on the state website and
in a local newspaper. Ads posted lately on the website, in addition to Workaway
Staffing's, include:

* The Breakers in Palm Beach: 14 club assistants at $10.36 per hour; 41 food and
beverage assistants at $9; and 12 hotel lobby attendants at $10.

* The Polo Club of Boca Raton: eight cooks at $9.85; 10 recreation attendants at
$10.36; and 50 dining room assistants at $9.12.

* The Ritz-Carlton in Jupiter: 13 house cleaners starting at $11.64; five line
cooks at $14.48.

* The Marriott Ocean Pointe in Palm Beach Shores: 13 house cleaners starting at
$10.

* The Four Seasons of Palm Beach: 17 servers starting at $9.15.

The country clubs represented by Workaway include Palm Beach Country Club;
Ballen Isles of Palm Beach Gardens; and Boca Grove Plantation, Boca Rio and Boca
West Country Club, all in or near Boca Raton.

Workforce Alliance announced last week that it was in discussions with Workaway
Staffing to help fill some of those hundreds of country club jobs.

Last year Workaway was the largest importer of foreign H-2B guest workers in the
state, with more than 800 visas approved.

William Mayville, president of Workaway Staffing, told The Palm Beach Post last
month that he tried to find local workers last year through job fairs but found
only six who lasted the entire season, compared with hundreds of foreign workers
he hired.

Local minority community leaders protested that he and other employers were not
seriously looking to hire local people. That is because those employers can save
money by hiring foreigners who do not get paid benefits and who are not entitled
to raises, the leaders said.

They also questioned whether work experience was necessary for many of the jobs
and whether the guest workers being imported all had that professional
experience.

Mayville also said he found that the Workforce Alliance was not a good
recruiting tool for his country club clients. But he has apparently
reconsidered.

"Workforce Alliance recently met with Workaway Staffing to assist them in
assessing and recruiting qualified job candidates from Palm Beach County,"
Workforce Alliance spokesman Tom Veenstra said in an email last week.

"We are continuing discussions with them to determine the best way to refer
qualified candidates for their clients' open positions."

Mayville emailed The Post about his company's position.

"We have 850 seasonal jobs to fill for waiters, waitresses and dishwashers and,
as we always do, we seek to hire Americans first for these positions," he wrote.

"In years past we couldn't get enough qualified Americans to fill these jobs,"
he continued.

"If we get enough qualified Americans applying for these jobs this year, there
won't be a jobs gap. If once again there are not enough Americans interested in
working in these seasonal positions, we will need to bridge the gap so Palm
Beach County's residential country clubs can be fully staffed."

Mayville thanked Workforce Alliance for its cooperation. But not all employers
were choosing that path.

The Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, owned by Donald Trump, recently posted
Alien Labor Certification ads for 30 waiters and waitresses, 30 cooks and 30
housekeepers, without conferring with the alliance, which has 2,600 people on
its rolls who have applied for such jobs.

Mar-a-Lago also says in its ads that housekeepers, who make beds and clean, must
have high school diplomas or equivalency certificates, when unemployment for
county residents without high school diplomas is running 20 percent to 30
percent.

"This is bogus and just a way of excluding locals from those jobs," said Greg
Schell, an attorney with Florida Legal Services who has represented H-2B
workers.

"The Department of Labor should never approve visas for those jobs."

According to Victoria Heller, spokeswoman for the Agency for Workforce
Innovation in Tallahassee, the state's unemployment office, the Department of
Labor has the right to deny visas if requirements for a job are "unduly
restrictive."

Mar-a-Lago did not respond to a request for comment.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Where to apply; application assistance  Workaway Staffing of Palm Beach
Gardens is looking for more than 800 people to work in country clubs. Applicants
must supply cover letters and r)sum)s by fax, to Siobhan Everhart, at (561)
625-2502. Workforce Alliance, a nonprofit that helps Palm Beach County residents
land jobs, says anyone wanting to apply for Workaway Staffing jobs can use
Workforce offices, where faxes and computers are available. The three Workforce
locales in the county are: * Central Career Center, 1951 N. Military Trail,
Suite D, West Palm Beach 33409, (561) 340-1060. * South Career Center, 951
Yamato Road, Suite 175, Boca Raton 33431, (561) 853-0181. * West Career Center,
1085 Main St., Belle Glade 33430, (561) 829-2040.POST INVESTIGATIONGuest
workersThe Breakers, Palm Beach Posted 14 club assistants at $10.36 an hour; 41
food and beverage assistants at $9; and 12 lobby attendants at $10.HELP WANTED:
Before hiring foreign guest workers, employers must advertise the jobs on the
state website and in a local newspaper. Among the jobs posted recently on the
state website, in addition to those posted by Workaway staffing, are:The
Marriott Ocean Pointe, Palm Beach Shores Posted 13 house cleaner jobs starting
at $10 an hour.The Ritz-Carlton, Jupiter Posted 13 positions for house cleaners
starting at $11.64 an hour and five line cooks at $14.48.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Workaway finds guest workers for jobs Americans won't do

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 627 words


By BILL MAYVILLE

With unemployment so high, you might think employers in Palm Beach County's
clubs and resorts could easily fill jobs with qualified job-seekers.
Unfortunately for both employers and job-seekers, it's not that simple.

In Palm Beach County, where tourism and our seasonal population drive the
economy, we're faced with a gap. Despite the inducements we provide to hire
Americans, there is a shortage of people willing to take jobs for just a portion
of the year as servers and dishwashers. While most of our workers are American,
there is a job gap, and it needs to be bridged if we are to maintain our
county's economic vitality and renowned reputation for hospitality.

According to Workforce Alliance, the government agency that helps unemployed
workers find jobs, some 65 percent of employer job openings went unfilled at the
height of the 2009 recession. Despite the efforts of the alliance, many
positions are still unfilled.

Workaway International bridges this gap by finding reliable guest workers so our
clubs and residential communities can maintain the area's economic advantage as
the place to go for sterling service.

If we had a choice, we'd hire only qualified Americans. From an economic
viewpoint, foreign guest workers cost employers more than Americans. We pay
foreign and domestic workers the same wages, but employers must bear the cost of
flying the guest workers to and from Palm Beach, pay visa and airport processing
fees, ground transportation expenses and health care.

In addition, we pay taxes, including Social Security, Medicare, unemployment,
and workers compensation for guest workers, just as we do for Americans.

Even with the economy struggling, the clubs have been unable to find American
workers to fill these temporary jobs and pass the background check and drug
tests necessary for employment. Last year, Workaway sought to fill 846 jobs.
After advertising for the positions, we received just 189 résumés. Only 70
individuals showed up for their interviews; 40 were offered positions; 15
accepted; five failed their police background checks; 10 started work. Just six
finished the season. This is a problem.

Workaway and the clubs work hard to attract and retain U.S. workers. Whether
it's on-site day-care centers or referral bonuses of up to $200 for U.S. workers
who successfully recruit other citizens, we're constantly trying new ways to
attract American workers to fill these jobs.

Unfortunately, many unemployed Americans would prefer not to take seasonal
positions as waiters and dishwashers despite the average pay of $10 an hour. In
our region, many job-seekers worked in construction or other fields, and they
would rather find jobs in their area of expertise than switch to temporary
restaurant work.

If we don't have a reliable source of workers, Palm Beach County's economy will
suffer. If the clubs are unable to find workers, they will be forced to close
restaurants and curtail the services they provide. If we cut back, everyone gets
hurt, including the many Americans who hold full-time jobs at our clubs.

These clubs, with 27,600 residents, have a big impact on our economy, providing
local jobs for area businesses like construction crews, retailers and
restaurants. Residents choose Palm Beach County because of our weather and
world-class services. We don't want these residents to drive real estate values
any lower by selling their homes and moving to other sunny climates in Florida
or elsewhere. We want them here in Palm Beach County,.

Workaway believes in doing the right thing for our workers -- foreign and
domestic. By doing so, we're part of what makes Palm Beach County work.

Bill Mayville is president and CEO of Workaway International. He was a member of
Workforce Florida from 2000 to 2004.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  HOT TOPIC  BRIDGING THE JOB GAP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deutch urges probe of guest worker program ;
 The lawmaker says it favors foreign workers over locals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 917 words


U.S. Rep. Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton, is calling for the U.S. labor secretary to
investigate a work visa program that he says allows hundreds of foreigners to
take hospitality jobs at the expense of qualified Americans.

Deutch wrote to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis on Wednesday, asking her to
investigate her department's H-2B visa program, which has allowed local resorts
and country clubs to import the foreign workers, while the county suffers
unemployment of more than 10 percent.

At the same time, U.S. Rep. Allen West, R-Plantation, in a letter to the leader
of a Palm Beach County Hispanic organization, defended the rights of the
hospitality employers to import the workers under the current guidelines and
decried government interference with business.

Deutch's letter followed a series of articles in The Palm Beach Post revealing
that in the past year resorts and country clubs in the county were approved for
1,552 H-2B visas for seasonal positions such as housekeepers, waiters, cooks,
kitchen assistants and recreation facility assistants. The county's Workforce
Alliance, the agency that helps local residents find work, says it has 2,600
people on its rolls looking for such positions.

"Palm Beach County leads Florida in the number of authorized foreign workers"
despite high unemployment, Deutch wrote to Solis.

"In South Florida, many of the hospitality, restaurant and resort industry jobs
covered by the H-2B visa program last anywhere from seven to 10 months. With so
many Floridians out of work, there is no question that many of these positions
would be attractive to local residents," he wrote.

Deutch called "simply inadequate" the requirements that employers post ads for
such jobs in a local newspaper for two days per year and on the state's
employment website, EmployFlorida.com, for 10 days.

A Labor Department spokesman could not be reached for comment.

In its coverage The Post compared ads placed for those jobs in local papers with
ads placed on websites overseas for the same positions. Deutch called the local
ads "perfunctory, nondescript," while ads placed on foreign websites were
"extravagant and descriptive."

He said he recognized that local hospitality employers, trying to fill staffs
for their busy season, which begins in October, faced "unique challenges." They
advertise those jobs locally starting in May and June, which leaves them time to
contract H-2B workers overseas.

"What steps can be taken to have employers advertise job openings closer to the
start of the job and still afford the employer enough time to complete H-2B visa
applications if necessary?" Deutch wrote to Solis.

West, meanwhile, took the opposing position, in a letter July 14 to Jorge
Avellana, executive director of the Hispanic Human Resources Council of Palm
Beach County. Avellana had written to West on June 15 decrying the use of H-2B
visas.

"It is not the federal government's role to mandate the hiring practices of
private businesses, as long as they are not employing illegal aliens and
breaking the law," West responded in his letter, which was make available to The
Post.

"The H-2B visa program is strictly for temporary seasonal workers and employers
can only utilize it after they have done extensive recruiting locally without
success," West wrote. "It is a program to keep seasonal businesses, many of
which are located in South Florida, operating."

But leaders in minority communities, including Avellana, claim that local
employers do not seriously look for local workers, because in the long run guest
workers are cheaper to employ.

Officials at Workforce Alliance also say few employers in the hospitality
industry have worked with them to find local residents to fill the jobs.

West's letter to Avellana continued: "My main focus in the House of
Representatives is to set the conditions for economic growth that will create
jobs and lower unemployment for all Americans," West said. He said local
business owners had told him what government needs to do is "lower the burden of
federal regulation."

Avellana took issue with that statement and West's position on the issue in
general.

"He says the government shouldn't mandate who an employer hires, but when
government officials voted to allow those foreign guest workers, they were
intervening so that local workers (do) not get those jobs," Avellana said. "His
position is costing local people jobs and not creating jobs the way he says."

West did not respond to requests for further comment.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Hospitality job training

Workforce Alliance, the agency that helps local residents find jobs, will
sponsor a course to prepare individuals between 18 and 21 years old for the
hospitality industry. The Hospitality Occupation and Service Training course
includes a 90-day paid internship with local employers.

DETAILS:

- Two orientation sessions are scheduled for 10 a.m. to noon on Aug. 3 and Aug.
5at the Workforce Alliance Central Career Center, 1951 D N.Military Trail, at
the corner withOkeechobee Boulevard.

- Fifteen candidates will be chosen for the first class.

- Course work will begin in September.

Young adults interested in the program should contact Program Coordinator Gary
Hawkins at (561) 340-1060, ext. 2336.

- Occupations covered in the course include: food and beverage operations;
culinary positions; spa and physical therapy services; gym and recreational
positions, golf course operations and maintenance; and professional positions
such as managers, human resources staff and accounting/finance.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Higher pay for foreigners could hurt them ;
 Guestworker wages rise so jobless citizens can compete.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 928 words


The U.S. Labor Department is raising the wages employers must pay foreign guest
workers and is proposing other major changes that could diminish the number of
foreign citizens imported to work in the hospitality industry in Palm Beach
County.

In August 2010, a federal court in Pennsylvania found that employers who are
importing guest workers nationwide -- using H-2B visas for low-skilled labor --
are being allowed to pay lower-than-average wages to those foreign employees.

Workers organizations that sued over the issue said, in effect, the employers
were driving wages down and making the jobs unattractive to U.S. workers.

The court ordered that wages must better approximate the average wage for each
job in specific parts of the country. Those changes will take effect Sept. 30.
Not only will H-2B workers get higher wages, but employers who hire them have
traditionally been obligated to pay local workers in the same positions at least
the same wage.

Palm Beach County was approved last year for more H-2B workers than any other
county in Florida. Almost all of them -- 1,552 workers -- were approved for
luxury resorts and country clubs.

According to Labor Department wage schedules, minimum wages for most H-2B
positions in the Palm Beach County hospitality field will increase anywhere from
about 50 cents per hour to as much as $3 per hour. The jobs include waiters,
cooks, housekeepers, bartenders and kitchen helpers. They are classified as
seasonal, but most last seven to 10 months.

H-2B takes heat

Community-based organizations such as the Urban League, NAACP and the Hispanic
Human Resources Council of Palm Beach County have decried the practice of
importing guest workers and say it is costing local residents jobs. Unemployment
overall in the county hovers between 10 percent and 11 percent, but it is double
that in minority communities.

U.S. Reps. Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton; Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar; and Tom Rooney,
R-Tequesta, have expressed concerns that the program may be costing U.S. workers
jobs.

Among the employers certified to import workers in the past year were: The
Breakers, Mar-a-Lago and the Palm Beach Country Club, all in Palm Beach; The
Ritz-Carlton in Jupiter; The Marriott Ocean Pointe in Palm Beach Shores; and the
Polo Club, Boca West and Boca Rio country clubs, all in the Boca Raton area.

Representatives of those employers were asked to comment about how the new wage
rules would affect them, but they did not reply.

Local critics of the H-2B program say the resorts and country clubs are using
the program to depress wages and save money. Greg Schell, a workers advocate
with Florida Legal Services, speculated that forcing employers to pay higher
wages to imported workers might lead those employers to hire more local workers
instead.

"That's certainly the idea," Schell said. "You would think it might work that
way, but we'll see."

More time to apply

Other proposed changes to the H-2B rules could make it even more difficult for
employers to continue to import workers with those guest worker visas.
Currently, if an employer plans to import workers, that employer must advertise
the jobs for two days in a newspaper and 10 days on the state's
EmployFlorida.com website.

But the employer can do that three to four months before the job is to begin and
can then stop local recruitment efforts and apply for the foreign workers.
Advocates for local workers say that sharply curtails the number of local
workers who apply because they do not want to wait months before beginning work.

Under the new proposed rules, local workers will be able to apply for the jobs
until three days before the job is to begin, which should lead many more local
workers to apply.

"That's one of the biggest changes," Schell said. "If there is any good faith,
you would think that there would be a lot more local people hired."

The new H-2B rules also would require employers in areas suffering high
unemployment, such as Palm Beach County, to do more local recruiting. Among the
requirements proposed are that employers do radio advertising and contact
community-based organizations and churches.

Skirting the system

The proposed rules also would give local Workforce Alliance officials more
responsibilities in overseeing the recruitment process. Under procedures adopted
by the administration of George W. Bush, employers had simply to claim a need
for guest workers and they could then begin the visa process. Any scrutiny of an
application was done after the fact, often after foreign workers were already in
the country, and that scrutiny was rare.

The Labor Department, in announcing proposed changes, said it had found numerous
cases of abuse of the system, including, in some cases, criminal mistreatment of
imported workers.

"Employers do not appear to be recruiting, hiring and paying U.S. workers, and
in some cases the H-2B workers themselves, in accordance with established
program requirements," said the proposed rules change posted in the Federal
Register.

The proposed changes could become final this year and take effect early next
year.

But Schell also expressed concern that, as it becomes harder to use H-2B visas,
some employers may try to import guest workers in other ways, especially by
using J-1 visas issued by the State Department. J-1s are billed as tools for
cultural exchange, but they allow foreigners to work in the U.S. for a limited
time and are being used increasingly by employers.

"The more they tighten rules on H-2Bs, the more you'll see the use of J-1s,"
Schell said. "It's the latest scam."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Foreign worker pay-raise battle ;
 Local hotels, clubs back suit against salary hikes for 'guest' employees.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 742 words


Trade organizations around the nation, including several that represent Florida
firms, are suing the U.S. Department of Labor, demanding that it not raise the
wages that must be paid to thousands of foreign guest workers imported every
year.

With the national unemployment rate topping 9 percent and job creation for U.S.
citizens now the top political issue, the importation of seasonal workers is a
heated issue. The outcome of the case could affect how many foreign workers
companies are able to afford and how many of those jobs might end up going to
local workers.

The first hearing in the case was scheduled for federal court in Louisiana
today, but it was postponed Thursday while officials decide whether to move the
proceedings to another jurisdiction. New higher wages were to take effect Sept.
30, but that also was pushed back, to Nov. 30.

Plaintiffs are asking for a preliminary injunction, or for new wage rules to be
thrown out altogether.

The outcome will affect country clubs, private clubs and hotels in Palm Beach
County, which imports more workers on unskilled labor (H-2B) visas than any
Florida county. Last year, 1,552 such visas were approved for local hospitality
industry employers.

"We definitely support the suit," said David Semadeni of the Palm Beach County
Hotel and Lodging Association.

Semadeni and other hospitality officials say local venues cannot find enough
qualified workers locally to fill their seasonal needs. Among the institutions
that import H-2B workers are The Breakers, Mar-a-Lago and the Palm Beach Country
Club, all in Palm Beach; The Ritz-Carlton in Jupiter; the Marriott Ocean Pointe
in Palm Beach Shores; and the Polo Club, Boca West and Boca Rio country clubs,
all in the Boca Raton area.

High jobless rate a factor

Local critics of the visa program, including leaders of minority communities and
some South Florida congressmen, say that the importation of foreign workers
should be sharply limited with the county's unemployment rate topping 10
percent.

In August, the Labor Department made it harder for employers to continue the
practice, saying it had the effect of keeping wages low for U.S. workers in the
same fields.

The department ordered employers to pay higher wages to guest workers and, if
they have U.S. workers in the same positions, to pay them at least as much as
the imported workers.

The new regulations would raise wages in local country clubs and hotels that use
H-2B workers by about 50 cents an hour for some jobs and as much as $3 an hour
for others. Those higher wages could affect staffing for the winter season.

The Labor Department said that will bring the H-2B workers up to the "prevailing
wage," or average wage, for people in similar jobs in different areas of the
country. Employers insist the new wages will be higher than average.

National organizations representing the hotel, forestry, amusement park, sugar,
shrimp and crawfish industries joined to sue both the Labor Department and the
Department of Homeland Security, which monitors security concerns involving H-2B
workers.

The complaint, filed Sept. 7, states that in the hotel industry, "Employers
depend on the availability of temporary foreign guest workers under the H-2B
program to fill temporary positions created by peak or seasonal fluctuations in
business. Without an adequate number of workers during all times, a hotel or
resort simply cannot operate efficiently, if at all. During the peak season,
hotels and resorts must increase their workforces with temporary staff in order
to support their full-time staff and provide service to the increased number of
guests."

Luring more U.S. workers

Employers are obligated to first try to find local residents to fill those jobs,
but the Labor Department said local employers have made little effort to do so.
Theoretically, the higher wages decreed by the Labor Department would make the
jobs more attractive to locals.

The department also has changed the rules for recruiting local workers, giving
those workers more of a chance to apply.

The new Labor Department regulations also would force shrimpers to increase the
wages they pay to seasonal workers. In Pensacola, Scott Young, owner of Young's
Packaging Supplies, said the outcome is important to his firm.

"We supply the packaging for the shrimp industry," Young said. "It will affect
my business if those people can't afford to pay those wages and won't be able to
operate their plants."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Palm Beach County and foreign workers  Last year, 1,552 unskilled labor
visas were approved for local hospitality industry employers. Among the places
that import H-2B workers: Palm Beach * The Breakers Z Mar-a-LagoZ Palm Beach
Country Club Jupiter ZThe Ritz-Carlton Palm Beach Shores ZMarriott Ocean Pointe
Boca Raton area ZPolo ClubZ Boca West Country ClubZ Boca Rio Country Club

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A 'Hire American' boost ;
 Companies that fill jobs from overseas should have to pay more.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 383 words


In a few months, hiring foreign workers is likely to get more expensive for
American businesses, and that's mostly a good thing. Making businesses pay
higher wages to temporary foreign workers encourages them to hire out-of-work
Americans, something that doesn't happen nearly enough in such sectors as the
hospitality industry. Particularly in Palm Beach County, resorts and country
clubs need to be pushed to look harder for local workers before shipping
foreigners in.

Unsurprisingly, businesses are not pleased. Claiming financial ruin if new
federal guidelines take effect that raise wages for temporary foreign workers
hired on H-2B visas, several industry groups are suing the U.S. Department of
Labor, hoping to overturn the increases.

The increases vary by industry and region but in many cases wages will rise by
$3 or $4 an hour. The professional associations suing, which represent such
groups as foresters, crawfish processors and hoteliers, claim the extra payroll
costs will force them to hire fewer people and pass on added costs to customers.

But these wage rules apply only when companies hire H-2B workers. The fact that
they are complaining now about wage rules that won't take effect until November
underscores a key problem.

One of the H-2B system's deep flaws is that it requires companies to request
approval to hire temporary foreign workers long before they are needed and to
make only basic attempts to recruit Americans. But of course, those efforts
happen months before the jobs are available, making the efforts almost moot. Who
is going to apply in July for a dishwashing job that doesn't start until
November?

Palm Beach County businesses, particularly resorts and country clubs, make big
use of H-2B visa workers -- to the tune of 1,500 -- while the county's
unemployment rate remains in double digits. Business associations insist there
simply aren't enough qualified Americans willing to take six-month jobs waiting
tables or cleaning hotel rooms.

Certainly, businesses that truly need temporary foreign workers to fill gaps in
the labor pool should be able to hire them. But area resorts and country clubs
don't seem to be trying very hard to find local workers. Under these new rules,
they will have more incentive.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  THE CARTOON VIEWTEMPORARY FOREIGN WORKERS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hotels reducing foreign workers ;
 Country clubs also agree to a county plan to recruit and train locals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 861 words


A plan hammered out by a county commissioner, state Workforce Alliance officials
and representatives of local country clubs and hotels aims to reduce hospitality
jobs in Palm Beach County that go to foreign guest workers.

The plan, made public by Commissioner Burt Aaronson, calls for an initial 15
percent reduction in imported foreign workers.

"But ultimately my goal is to prepare local people to take those jobs and try to
eliminate those foreign guest workers altogether," Aaronson said. "We'll see if
that is possible."

A Palm Beach Post investigation discovered that last year Palm Beach County
country clubs, other private clubs and hotels were approved for 1,552 H-2B visas
issued by the U.S. Department of Labor, which allows them to import foreign
workers as housekeepers, waiters, kitchen personnel and groundskeepers.

With unemployment in the county at 11 percent, the importation of workers has
drawn criticism from leaders in minority communities and concern from members of
Congress.

The new county plan calls for greater local recruiting efforts by employers and
more training programs to prepare workers for jobs in the hospitality industry.

"We would very much like to see more local people going to the country clubs and
hotels for those jobs, but they have to have the qualifications and the right
attitude for those service jobs," Aaronson said.

Aaronson's plan coincides with an effort by the Labor Department to make
employers pay foreign H-2B workers higher wages, which could drive employers to
seek more local employees.

But there are also indications that some employers are instead shifting from
H-2B visas, administered by the Labor Department, to J-1 visas issued by the
U.S. Department of State.

The J-1 visas are designated for foreign trainees and interns in certain
industries, but are used much like H-2B visas to import workers for hospitality
venues. More than 1,900 such visas were issued to Florida employers last year,
some of them in Palm Beach County.

While H-2B visas are tracked closely by the Labor Department, the State
Department leaves the administration of J-1 visas to third-party sponsors and
does not keep close track of exactly who employs them or how.

"There is very little oversight," said attorney Greg Schell of Florida Legal
Services, who has represented H-2B and J-1 workers in Florida. "No one at the
federal level knows where they are. So as the Labor Department cracks down on
the misuse of H-2B visas, of course you will see some employers flocking to the
J-1's."

Schell said Aaronson will have to find a way to monitor J-1 visas used by county
employers if he is to know that his program is succeeding.

Meanwhile, Aaronson's plan indicates the initial 15 percent reduction in those
foreign workers will come about by targeting certain jobs.

"Focus will be increased on more easily filled positions, such as golf course
maintenance, grounds keeping, facilities maintenance, carpenters, housekeeping,
receiving, back-of-the-house and back office positions," the report said.

Tom Veenstra, a spokesman for the nonprofit employment agency Workforce
Alliance, who helped with the report, said the goal is to achieve that reduction
"in a one- to two-year time frame."

That effort has already made progress. Workforce Alliance said Friday that the
Boca Raton Resort & Club, which was looking for 170 seasonal workers, has hired
45 with the help of Workforce Alliance and that additional candidates are being
screened.

The Palm Beach Marriott Singer Island Resort & Spa has contracted a housekeeping
supervisor through the alliance and has filled several other positions. And the
Quail Ridge Country Club of Boynton Beach, looking for 70 employees, has staged
a recruiting and screening event with the alliance.

Aaronson said filling waiter jobs and other positions that require more direct
contact with the public is most difficult. The plan outlines various projects
for training workers for those jobs, including collaborations with Lincoln
College of West Palm Beach and with the Palm Beach County School District.

The Palm Beach County Hotel & Lodging Association will team with Workforce
Alliance and with Workaway Staffing of Palm Beach Gardens, a private firm that
has imported workers for local country clubs, to develop training programs.

William Mayville, president of Workaway, said two country clubs in the county,
The Club at Admiral's Cove in Jupiter and Boca West, have proposed hosting
academies for local young people who want to enter the industry.

"The idea is to hold classes as part of this academy during next summer and
persons wanting to get into the industry would go through a 30-day training
program, earn a certificate and they would automatically get hired by one of the
clubs for that season," he said.

Some of the county's landmark hospitality venues and private clubs are among
those importing workers: The Ritz-Carlton Golf Club & Spa in Jupiter; The
Breakers, Mar-a-Lago, the Everglades Club, the Four Seasons and the Palm Beach
Country Club, all in Palm Beach; BallenIsles in Palm Beach Gardens; and Boca
Grove Plantation, Boca Rio and the Polo Club, all in Boca Raton.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New rules push hiring of locals over foreigners

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 898 words


The U.S. Department of Labor has issued new rules requiring importers of foreign
guest workers nationwide to make a greater effort to recruit local workers, a
change that will have a significant impact on Palm Beach County.

In a series of articles published in 2011, The Palm Beach Post revealed that
2,000 foreign workers were being imported annually for jobs of seven months or
more in local country clubs and resorts, despite a county unemployment rate of
more than 10 percent. The county jobless rate is about twice as high for
minority workers.

County Commissioner Burt Aaronson, representatives of country clubs and hotels,
state employment officials and local educators formed a task force to address
the issue. They have set a goal of filling all those hospitality industry jobs
with local workers within four years.

The new federal rules make an increased local recruiting effort mandatory.

H-2B guest worker visas are issued by the Labor Department to employers seeking
non-skilled seasonal employees, when those employers cannot find local workers.
But critics say some employers have made little or no effort to hire locals and
have used the program as a way to keep wages low and avoid paying benefits.

"The rule announced today will ensure that the program is used as intended by
making these jobs more accessible to U.S. workers and providing stronger
protections for every worker," Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said.

The new rules are to be published in the Federal Register on Feb. 21 and should
take effect 60 days later, although employer organizations could sue to block or
delay the rules.

Currently, employers are required to advertise the jobs for only 10 days, and
they can run the ads as much as four months before the jobs are to begin. Thus,
a country club job starting Oct. 1 can be advertised locally in early June, and
then the chance of a local resident applying for the job can end.

Under the new rules, employers must recruit local workers until 21 days before
the job is to begin, and the local office of Workforce Alliance, the nonprofit
job creation agency for Florida, will have a larger role in overseeing and
documenting the recruitment efforts. Employers also will be required to make the
jobs available to locals previously employed in those jobs before seeking
foreign workers.

In an earlier draft of the rules, employers were obligated to leave the local
hiring process open until three days before the job was to begin. But employers
across the nation complained that such a small window was impractical, and the
Labor Department agreed.

Aaronson applauded the compromise Friday.

"I think it's reasonable, and I think the clubs should be happy," he said. "It's
a step in the right direction. I feel very confident we will be hiring many more
local workers for these clubs."

Also, under current rules, an employer simply has to attest that the foreign
workers are needed and can hire them without prior government oversight. Under
the new rules, employers will have to prove they have genuine need for the
foreign workers before they will be allowed to apply for them.

The new regulations also provide protections for foreign workers. Legal aid
lawyers have charged that although employers are obligated to pay all travel and
paperwork costs for those imported workers, they sometimes don't, and some
workers have been subjected to substandard work and housing conditions.

Breaking the new rules could cost employers as much as $10,000 in fines.

Palm Beach County's Workforce Alliance also praised the new regulations.

"The Department of Labor's new H-2B rules strengthen the efforts of Workforce
Alliance to reduce the number of H-2B visa workers by increasing the number of
local residents hired into jobs," spokesman Tom Veenstra said.

David Semadeni, secretary of the Palm Beach County Hotel and Lodging
Association, said he saw no immediate problem with the new rules.

"I see no massive red flags," he said. "Obviously giving the employers 21 days
instead of three days (for overseas contracting) is far better from the
employer's point of view."

Some of the county's landmark hospitality venues and private clubs are among
those importing workers: the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club & Spa in Jupiter; The
Breakers, Mar-a-Lago, the Everglades Club, the Four Seasons and the Palm Beach
Country Club, all in Palm Beach; BallenIsles in Palm Beach Gardens; and Boca
Grove Plantation, Boca Rio and the Polo Club, all in Boca Raton.

The new rules address only H-2B workers brought in under visas approved by the
Labor Department. Some county hospitality employers also have used State
Department J-1 visas, which are not covered, to import hundreds of workers.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

Guest worker guidelines

The U.S. Department of Labor has written new rules for employers seeking H-2B
visas to import foreign guest workers. The rules require the companies to make a
greater effort to seek local employees:

* Employers must document a genuine need to import workers before they can apply
for H-2B visas.

* Employers must advertise jobs locally until 21 days before the jobs are to
begin. Currently, they can end local recruitment about 100 days before the jobs
begin.

* Workforce Alliance will play a larger role in overseeing and documenting local
recruitment activities by employers.

* Greater protections are required for imported H-2B workers.

Source: U.S. Department of Labor

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST COVERAGE Hospitality jobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Find those local workers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 429 words


It's hard not to be annoyed, even outraged, by some of Palm Beach County's
finest resorts and clubs -- The Breakers, the Mar-a-Lago Club -- importing
foreign laborers instead of hiring local residents, especially when they don't
seem to be trying much to recruit locally. Thanks to new federal regulations,
they will have to try harder.

The U.S. Department of Labor stricter rules mean that businesses have to make a
more legitimate effort to recruit American workers before the businesses are
permitted to bring in temporary workers from overseas through a federal visa
program. The woeful situation in Palm Beach County shows how badly these changes
are needed.

Last year, The Post's John Lantigua revealed that Palm Beach County businesses
brought in more than 1,500 foreign workers on federal H-2B visas to do temporary
unskilled jobs -- a startlingly high figure, considering the county's
then-double-digit unemployment rate. Worse, despite claims that these resorts
and country clubs couldn't find willing American workers, there was plenty of
evidence that their recruitment efforts had been zilch. None of the many country
clubs and hotels that use these workers -- including Jupiter's Ritz-Carlton and
Palm Beach Gardens' BallenIsles Country Club -- ever had even reached out to the
county's Workforce Alliance.

Under current rules, businesses that seek H-2B workers don't have to do much to
recruit locally beforehand other than advertise the jobs for a few days in a
local newspaper and on a jobs website, in each case months before the work
begins. Now they will have to advertise the job longer, coordinate with
workforce agencies and accept American applicants just days before the job
starts.

In order to protect foreign workers from abuse, the rules seek to bar foreign
recruiters, who often force prospective workers to pay large sums for the chance
to work in the U.S. Employers also will have to cover foreign hires'
transportation costs. The rules are not yet in effect and could face a legal
challenge from business interests.

After The Post broke the story, many of the clubs and resorts began working last
year with Palm Beach County Commissioner Burt Aaronson and the Workforce
Alliance to reduce their dependence on overseas laborers. Their efforts include
new recruitment and training efforts.

These businesses now insist that they really would prefer to hire area workers
because it is less expensive for them. Under these new rules, they will have
more reason to put their money where their mouth is.

-- Andrew Marra,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WHAT DO YOU THINK? TALK BACK!OUR VIEWSA POST INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 5, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Program keeps hotel jobs close to home ;
 The effort aims to replace guest workers with locals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The nine students were near the end of a tour of the Marriott hotel when they
were allowed through a door for staff only, so they could see behind the scenes.

That door led not only to a backstage world but, they hope, to their futures.

They all belong to the HOST program -- Hospitality Occupation and Service
Training -- run by the Workforce Alliance, the nonprofit agency that helps
Floridians find work. The program is one of the initiatives that Palm Beach
County says it will employ to eliminate the importation of foreign guest workers
in the country club and lodging industry.

About 2,000 workers annually have been imported to work in local clubs and
resorts in recent years, despite an unemployment rate that once topped 10
percent countywide and was about twice as high among minority workers.

After The Palm Beach Post wrote articles on the importation of those workers,
County Commissioner Burt Aaronson formed a task force with local hospitality
industry executives, educators and the Workforce Alliance to find and train
local residents to fill those jobs. The task force has given itself a target of
four years to eliminate all foreign guest workers at hospitality venues.

"Recruitment and training of local job seekers who are eager and ready to work
in the county's No. 1 industry helps offset the need for foreign hospitality
workers," said Sean Dykes, former operations manager for The Ritz-Carlton in New
Orleans, and now a consultant and classroom instructor for the HOST program.

Mark Baker, the Marriott's general manager, says his hotel stopped importing
guest workers several years ago and he has used the Workforce Alliance to fill
some positions since.

"The people they sent me have all worked out," Baker said. "If I can get a few
more, I'll be happy."

Leaders of local minority organizations pushed publicly to have more locals
hired by the hospitality industry. The students in attendance on the recent
visit were all black or Hispanic, and between ages 18 and 21.

The program targets young people who are at risk. Some have dropped out of
school. Some are single mothers. Other participants have had minor brushes with
the law.

"But they are in the HOST program because they want to do better, to get a good
job," said Tom Veenstra, a Workforce spokesman. "They want someone to give them
a chance."

And they must prove themselves before the program will accept them. Although
about 50 people are recruited for each class, they are tested for aptitude and
attitude, and only 15 make the cut.

They must then complete a nine-week classroom course on the hospitality industry
and customer service. The students must pass four exams with at least an 80
percent grade and must demonstrate that they are serious by showing up every
day, on time and properly dressed.

Workforce helps them by paying students $150 each time they pass a test and by
providing child-care expense money, a gas voucher or bus pass, and a $50 voucher
for clothes.

The students also must prove that they have the personalities to work in the
hospitality business. That means smiling often.

"You have to have some smarts," Dykes said, "but in the hospitality business,
attitude is even more important than aptitude."

The Marriott's Baker said everyone who works in a hotel must be prepared to
respond to guests' needs and do so in a friendly manner.

"We're in the hospitality business, not the hostility business," he said. "You
have to have a passion for taking care of people. We hire you for your attitude
and then train you so you have skills."

Baker also warned would-be employees not to be overly sensitive when their work
is inspected by supervisors. In other words, don't feel "dissed" because your
boss is double-checking what you do.

"You have to expect people to walk around behind you and check your work and
don't take it personally," he said. "We all have to work together to meet a
guest's expectations."

Dykes said it will take a different attitude for his charges to get along in a
hospitality venue than it might to survive on some of the county's tougher
streets.

"These are kids who have been tied to their neighborhood environment and are
reaching out to another, very different environment here," he said.

Dykes has had success. In the past six months he has placed HOST graduates in
the Palm Beach Gardens DoubleTree, the Ibis Golf and Country Club, and the
Holiday Inn at Palm Beach International Airport. His students have been hired
for all facets of the business: front desk, banquets and housekeeping.

On the day of the Marriott visit, three students were interviewed by Michelle
Fulse, the hotel's housekeeping supervisor.

"I love their appearance," she said. "They came dressed to impress and they did.
They were very smiley and they asked a lot of questions."

Fulse said it is hard to remain upbeat when dealing with particularly unpleasant
guests.

"I've gone home and cried some days," she said. "We'll have to see how they deal
with a very demanding customer. We teach them to do it with a smile."

Fulse was so pleased that she offered all three students she interviewed
internships: Jessica Cole and Velene Daniel, both 21, of West Palm Beach, and
Terelle Brown, 19, of Riviera Beach. They will work 12 weeks or 360 hours,
whichever comes first, at $8 per hour, paid by the Workforce Alliance.

It's an internship, but it comes with a salary -- and for Daniel, that made it a
special occasion.

"This is the first job I've ever had," she said, flashing a smile to make her
mentors proud.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST EXCLUSIVEHospitality jobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              March 5, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Program keeps hotel jobs close to home ;
 The effort aims to replace guest workers with locals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The nine students were near the end of a tour of the Marriott hotel when they
were allowed through a door for staff only, so they could see behind the scenes.

That door led not only to a backstage world but, they hope, to their futures.

They all belong to the HOST program -- Hospitality Occupation and Service
Training -- run by the Workforce Alliance, the nonprofit agency that helps
Floridians find work. The program is one of the initiatives that Palm Beach
County says it will employ to eliminate the importation of foreign guest workers
in the country club and lodging industry.

About 2,000 workers annually have been imported to work in local clubs and
resorts in recent years, despite an unemployment rate that once topped 10
percent countywide and was about twice as high among minority workers.

After The Palm Beach Post wrote articles on the importation of those workers,
County Commissioner Burt Aaronson formed a task force with local hospitality
industry executives, educators and the Workforce Alliance to find and train
local residents to fill those jobs. The task force has given itself a target of
four years to eliminate all foreign guest workers at hospitality venues.

"Recruitment and training of local job seekers who are eager and ready to work
in the county's No. 1 industry helps offset the need for foreign hospitality
workers," said Sean Dykes, former operations manager for The Ritz-Carlton in New
Orleans, and now a consultant and classroom instructor for the HOST program.

Mark Baker, the Marriott's general manager, says his hotel stopped importing
guest workers several years ago and he has used the Workforce Alliance to fill
some positions since.

"The people they sent me have all worked out," Baker said. "If I can get a few
more, I'll be happy."

Leaders of local minority organizations pushed publicly to have more locals
hired by the hospitality industry. The students in attendance on the recent
visit were all black or Hispanic, and between ages 18 and 21.

The program targets young people who are at risk. Some have dropped out of
school. Some are single mothers. Other participants have had minor brushes with
the law.

"But they are in the HOST program because they want to do better, to get a good
job," said Tom Veenstra, a Workforce spokesman. "They want someone to give them
a chance."

And they must prove themselves before the program will accept them. Although
about 50 people are recruited for each class, they are tested for aptitude and
attitude, and only 15 make the cut.

They must then complete a nine-week classroom course on the hospitality industry
and customer service. The students must pass four exams with at least an 80
percent grade and must demonstrate that they are serious by showing up every
day, on time and properly dressed.

Workforce helps them by paying students $150 each time they pass a test and by
providing child-care expense money, a gas voucher or bus pass, and a $50 voucher
for clothes.

The students also must prove that they have the personalities to work in the
hospitality business. That means smiling often.

"You have to have some smarts," Dykes said, "but in the hospitality business,
attitude is even more important than aptitude."

The Marriott's Baker said everyone who works in a hotel must be prepared to
respond to guests' needs and do so in a friendly manner.

"We're in the hospitality business, not the hostility business," he said. "You
have to have a passion for taking care of people. We hire you for your attitude
and then train you so you have skills."

Baker also warned would-be employees not to be overly sensitive when their work
is inspected by supervisors. In other words, don't feel "dissed" because your
boss is double-checking what you do.

"You have to expect people to walk around behind you and check your work and
don't take it personally," he said. "We all have to work together to meet a
guest's expectations."

Dykes said it will take a different attitude for his charges to get along in a
hospitality venue than it might to survive on some of the county's tougher
streets.

"These are kids who have been tied to their neighborhood environment and are
reaching out to another, very different environment here," he said.

Dykes has had success. In the past six months he has placed HOST graduates in
the Palm Beach Gardens DoubleTree, the Ibis Golf and Country Club, and the
Holiday Inn at Palm Beach International Airport. His students have been hired
for all facets of the business: front desk, banquets and housekeeping.

On the day of the Marriott visit, three students were interviewed by Michelle
Fulse, the hotel's housekeeping supervisor.

"I love their appearance," she said. "They came dressed to impress and they did.
They were very smiley and they asked a lot of questions."

Fulse said it is hard to remain upbeat when dealing with particularly unpleasant
guests.

"I've gone home and cried some days," she said. "We'll have to see how they deal
with a very demanding customer. We teach them to do it with a smile."

Fulse was so pleased that she offered all three students she interviewed
internships: Jessica Cole and Velene Daniel, both 21, of West Palm Beach, and
Terelle Brown, 19, of Riviera Beach. They will work 12 weeks or 360 hours,
whichever comes first, at $8 per hour, paid by the Workforce Alliance.

It's an internship, but it comes with a salary -- and for Daniel, that made it a
special occasion.

"This is the first job I've ever had," she said, flashing a smile to make her
mentors proud.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  POST EXCLUSIVEHospitality jobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Visa twist may hinder effort to curb foreign hiring

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 818 words


The effort to reduce the number of foreign guest workers in the Palm Beach
County country club and hospitality industry may have hit a new obstacle.

While the U.S. Department of Labor has tightened its oversight of visas used in
the past for unskilled foreign workers, some local employers may be shifting to
U.S. State Department student exchange trainee and intern visas to fill
positions -- again with foreign workers.

Those State Department J-1 visas may be attractive to employers because the jobs
involved do not have to be advertised locally, as do Labor Department H-2B visa
jobs. Critics say the J-1 visas also do not require employers to pay the
prevailing local wage for each position, which leads to more imported workers
and fewer locals being hired and drives down local wages.

And while employers who use the Labor Department visas are obligated to cover
all travel and documentation costs for foreign workers, the J-1 student workers
are responsible for all such costs. That also makes it a cheaper program for
employers.

"They don't call it a worker visa; they call it a student visa," said attorney
Vanessa Coe of Florida Legal Services in Lake Worth. "But it is because the
Labor Department is giving employers trouble that they are turning to the J-1s."

In October, County Commissioner Burt Aaronson formed a task force of state
employment officials, local secondary and college educators, and country club
and hospitality managers, setting a goal of eliminating foreign guest workers in
the county hospitality field within four years -- 25 percent per year.

Given high local unemployment -- especially in minority communities -- Aaronson
expressed the need to train local residents to take the jobs. U.S. Reps. Ted
Deutch, D-Boca-Raton; Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar; and Tom Rooney, R-Tequesta, all
expressed concern about the effect of guest workers on local employment.

Aaronson focused the task force on reducing the Labor Department visas. That
followed a series of articles in The Palm Beach Post documenting the fact that
more than 1,500 Labor Department visas were approved for county resorts and
country clubs for the 2010-11 year. But Aaronson says he understands the threat
State Department visas present to his goals.

"We're not in favor of the J-1 program," Aaronson said Tuesday. "The club owners
I'm working with are dedicated to making our plan work, but I can't speak for
every club. We're hoping everyone will work together."

He also said that he and other members of his task force will be traveling to
Washington on April 16 to speak with Labor Department officials about the county
plan and asking those officials to amend some recently announced changes to H-2B
regulations to facilitate the plan.

Meanwhile, a meeting is scheduled for 2 p.m. Thursday at the Ibis Golf & Country
Club in Palm Beach Gardens, where a firm from Austin, Texas -- Alliance Abroad
-- will make a presentation about the new difficulties in using the Labor
Department visas and the possibility of employers using student exchange visas.

Company President James Bell said those at the seminar will be largely local
country club managers and other hospitality professionals.

"We want to emphasize that there is a big difference between a guest worker
program and student exchange program," Bell said. "Our exchange programs are
really important for public diplomacy. They should be educational and cultural
and help international students meet Americans and learn what America is about."

But Jorge Avellana, executive director of the Hispanic Human Resources Council
of Palm Beach County, expressed doubts that cultural exchange was on the minds
of at least some potential employers.

"That is a complaint I've heard, that they are using these other visas," he
said. "In this case I don't think they are doing this to help these students get
a better education. I think they are doing it to make an extra buck. Given our
unemployment situation, I think that's wrong."

In a scathing report issued this month, the inspector general of the State
Department agreed.

"The J visa offers firms a convenient escape hatch from regulations designed to
prevent employers from undermining domestic workforce standards through
importing low-paid labor," the report said.

The report also said the lack of State Department oversight allows "what are
essentially work programs to masquerade as cultural exchange activities."

According to State Department figures, 1,789 J-1 interns and trainees are
employed in Florida. One source in the industry, who asked not be named, said he
believed as many as 600 are working in Palm Beach County clubs and resorts this
year, but no comprehensive information is available from the State Department as
to exactly where they are working. The typical J-1 visa for an intern and
trainee in the hospitality industry is good for 12 to 18 months, but some have
been renewed.

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court ruling helps foreign workers ;
 But county leaders are unfazed as they push for the hiring of locals.

BYLINE: By JOHN LANTIGUA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 647 words


A U.S. District Court judge in Florida has temporarily blocked new federal rules
that would make it harder for U.S. employers to import foreign guest workers for
certain jobs.

Labor Department lawyers had argued the rules were necessary because tens of
thousands of foreign workers brought into the country on visas for low-skilled,
non-agricultural laborers have taken jobs from U.S. workers and also are driving
down the wages paid in certain professions.

The Palm Beach County country club and resort industry has been one of the
nation's largest users of these H-2B visas for jobs such as waiters, cooks,
housekeepers, porters, and pool and golf course attendants.

Despite the ruling, Palm Beach County leaders said they will proceed with a
recently adopted local plan to replace 2,000 of those foreign workers in the
country club and hospitality industries.

"I don't see why we down here should stop training local workers to take those
jobs held by foreign workers," said County Commissioner Burt Aaronson, who has
led a task force to reduce the importation of workers from other countries.

"The plan we have put together could serve as a model for the rest of the
country on how to deal with this problem. They just need to give us a chance to
make it work."

The new Labor Department rules would require employers to make greater efforts
to find local workers for the jobs, including leaving them open for a much
longer period before contracting foreign help.

They also would limit H-2B contracts to nine months while requiring that foreign
workers be paid for a guaranteed number of hours and that they have all their
transportation costs covered to and from their countries of origin.

The rules also include wage protections for U.S. workers in the same jobs as the
foreign workers.

But in issuing a temporary injunction Friday, Judge M. Casey Rodgers of the
Northern District of Florida ruled that the Labor Department does not have the
authority to make those rule changes.

Rodgers said rules regarding foreign workers are the responsibility of the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security and that she had found insufficient proof it had
delegated that authority to the Labor Department.

She was ruling on a complaint brought by individual employers and trade
organizations that said the new rules would force them to raise operating costs
and lose contracts. The complaint said that would drive some of them out of
business. She gave the Labor Department 60 days to come up with reasons the
injunction should not become permanent.

While blocking the new rules will make it easier to import foreign workers, at
least for the moment, Aaronson and others leading the local effort to reduce the
number do not see the ruling affecting them.

Aaronson formed the task force after The Palm Beach Post enumerated the number
of workers who were being imported despite the high unemployment rate in Palm
Beach County, especially in minority communities.

On April 16, Aaronson led a county delegation to Washington to speak with Labor
Department leaders to explain the county plan, which would replace 2,000 foreign
workers with newly trained local workers over the next four years.

"The meeting we had in Washington went very well," Aaronson said. "And if we
have to go back up there to speak to someone due to this court action, then
we'll do that too."

Another member of the task force -- William Mayville, president of Workaway
Staffing of Palm Beach Gardens -- didn't think the court's action would affect
local plans.

Workaway Staffing has been the largest importer of foreign workers in the county
in recent years, supplying them to country clubs. Mayville said the clubs he has
represented for years were committed to the plan.

"I don't think anyone is going to discontinue what we have started with
Commissioner Aaronson," Mayville said. "I don't see anyone pulling out."

~ john_lantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clubs', resorts' hires of locals up fourfold;
Use of H-2B foreign- worker visas has fallen 31 percent in a year.

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1041 words


Officials in charge of creating employment opportunities in Palm Beach County
say the use of U.S. Labor Department visas to import foreign workers has dropped
sharply in the past 18 months and hiring of locals by country clubs and resorts
has increased dramatically.

The effort to stem the importation of labor in the hospitality industry began
last year after a series of articles published in The Palm Beach Post exposed
the use of foreign workers despite high unemployment among county residents.
Early this year, the Labor Department announced it would adopt regulations to
force employers to try harder to recruit local workers. Those new regulations
are on hold but the importation of workers is down, regardless.

Workforce Alliance, an organization contracted by the state to provide
job-placement services, says the use of H-2B visas in the county dropped by 31
percent between the 2010-2011 season and 2011-2012, from 1,478 to 1,027. All but
a handful of those visas are used by resorts and country clubs.

In addition, the alliance says the "alien certificate job orders," foreign
worker visas requested, has dropped even farther for the 2012-2013 season, from
1,870 last season to 916 this season, a decline of 51 percent. Not all of those
requests will be approved and of those approved traditionally, not all are used,
but the 916 figure indicates that the number H-2B workers used in the county is
continuing to drop.

At the same time, the alliance announced that the number of locals it had placed
in full- or part-time jobs at clubs and resorts since July 2011 was 679. That
compared with 169 between July 2010 to June 2011, a fourfold increase.

Ex-County Commissioner Burt Aaronson, who formed a task force last year to
address the problem, is pleased with the results so far. The task force agreed
on initiatives to urge local hiring, help recruit locals and set a goal of
eliminating all foreign workers in the county hospitality industry in four
years.

"The program is much more successful than I thought it would be," Aaronson said.
"We are exceeding the goal we set. I'm thinking maybe we can eliminate the
foreign workers in three years and not four."

U.S. Rep Ted Deutch, D-Boca Raton, has also been involved in the effort to
increase local hiring. "There has been a real commitment to working with the
Workforce Alliance among clubs in and around my district," he said.

But the success of the task force is not evenly distributed around the county.
The alliance said most of the job placements in the past 18 months have been
made in the southern part of the county, at the following clubs: Boca Resort &
Spa, Boca West and St. Andrews, all in Boca Raton; Addison Reserve in Delray
Beach; and Hunters Run in Boynton Beach.

According to country- club workers and other sources, progress in the northern
part of the county has been slower. Those sources say that some clubs, to avoid
the new Labor Department regulations, are switching from H-2B visas to State
Department J-1 intern and trainee visas. Those visas are given to foreign
students who can work in the U.S. for up to one year and that program is
scrutinized much less for its effect on local workers.

J-1 visas are attractive to employers because the jobs involved do not have to
be advertised locally and employers can pay lower wages than they must pay to
H-2B workers. And while employers who use the Labor Department visas are
obligated to cover all travel and documentation costs for foreign workers, the
J-1 student workers are responsible for all such costs. For all those reasons,
J-1 visas are much cheaper for employers than H-2Bs.

In Florida the number of J-1 visas given to trainees and interns rose last year
to about 2,220 from 1,900 the previous year. One source in the industry said
some 400-500 J-1 workers are being used at clubs and resorts in northern Palm
Beach County.

Several sources mentioned the Admiral's Cove Country Club in Jupiter as a major
user of the visas. Neither club general manager John Herring nor human resources
manager Kris Dinges returned calls Friday.

While the Labor Department makes public where all H-2B visa recipients work, the
State Department does not make available to journalists or academics data on
where J-1 recipients are employed, so it isn't known where else in the county
they might be employed. Aaronson said the State Department attitude irritated
him.

"I don't know why the State Department is doing this," Aaronson said. "We are
trying to eliminate foreign workers and they are letting in more. It's like the
left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. We're defeating our own
purpose. We are going to Washington in January to meet with officials there
about our program and this J-1 issue is one we're going to address."

Palm Beach County and especially its country clubs and some resorts, has been
one of the largest users of foreign worker visas in the U.S., despite the
county's unemployment rate, which reached 11.4 percent in 2010. The current rate
is 8.6 percent. Unemployment among minority workers is higher.

In June 2011, The Post began to publish a series of articles about the issue.
Minority community leaders and some members of Congress expressed concern over
the large-scale importation of workers for such jobs as hotel maids, waiters,
porters, assistant cooks and pool attendants.

In November 2011, Aaronson formed a task force that included Workforce Alliance,
local country clubs and resorts and local educators to try to increase the
number of locals hired for the jobs.

"Workforce Alliance is now conducting recruiting for 22 clubs/resorts, up from
five when the hospitality initiative began, and has expanded its recruiting
partnership with the (Palm Beach County) Hotel & Lodging Association," the
alliance announced last week.

As part of the task force's program, hospitality industry training courses are
expanding at Palm Beach State College, Florida Atlantic University and Northwood
University. At FAU, 38 students completed a course in country club management
and six students accepted internships at area clubs or resorts. Programs have
also been established at five high schools to place interns in country clubs and
resorts and over 70 students are involved.

jlantigua@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 172 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Staffing service owners sentenced in Filipino plot

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA SELTZER Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The owners of a Boca Raton-based labor contracting service were sentenced Friday
for conspiring to hold about 39 Filipino nationals and force them to work in
country clubs and hotels in Southeast Florida.

Sophia Manuel and Alfonso Baldonado Jr., owners of Quality Staffing Services
Corp., 4400 N. Federal Highway, pleaded guilty to "making false promises to
entice the victims to incur debts to pay up front recruitment fees," a news
release from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida
said.

Manuel was also sentenced for making "false statements on an application she
filed with the U.S. Department of Labor, to obtain foreign labor certifications
and visas under the federal H2B guest worker program."

Manuel was sentenced to 78 months in federal prison. Baldonado was sentenced to
51 months.

~alexandra_seltzer@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Crime watch  Read about cold cases, view mug shots and police blotters.
PalmBeachPost.com/crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
